ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e76	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Torkell Arnold Tooth is dead, almost 100 years old. Torkell Tande was born on 11 September 1901 in Nissedal, Telemark. After the theological examination, he was a parish priest in Sannidal in Telemark from 1930 to 1970 and a prost in Bamble from 1963 to 1970. Tooth was a member of Sannidal municipal government from 1934 and the rapporteur the same place in the years 1937-40 and again when the war ended in 1945. From 1959 he was a member of the local government of Kragerø. He was also a member of the county council, and had many other public offices in the municipality and county. Torkell Teeth entered the Stortinget as permanent representative of the Left in Telemark when Neri Valen died in 1954. In the time he sat on the Stortinget, he was a member of the Social Committee. He was especially pleased to have been involved in the fight against the fear of the people. In 1969 he went out of the Storing. The tooth was the leader of the «A World» deposit group. From 1960 to 1969 he was a member of the Council of Europe, he was a member of the Norwegian delegation to the United Nations in 1967 and attended the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in 1965. During the war, Torkell demonstrated great activity in the Homefront. He was active in the abstinence movement, where he had several executive positions, and for a number of years he was engaged in the speed movement. Tooth made a great effort in Sannidal History Teams over 60 years, both as a leader and as co-editor of the Sannidal and Skåøj village book. For this work he received Kragerø's cultural prize in 1991. Effort and concern for fellow human beings imprinted the life of the Torkell Tooth. He lived by the word «We live or die, we belong to the Lord». Throughout his life, he took an active part in the social debate, through lectures and reading articles. Until recently, he maintained good health – crystal clear in mind and mind. For his social efforts, he was awarded the Delta Medal and the King's Gold Medal of Merit. Former Depositary Representative Asbjørn Antoni Holm died on 4 February 2001, at 79 years of age. A faithful champion of the coastal people and the small ones of society has gone away. Asbjørn Holm was born into a fishing family in Langenes, Northland, and he began his professional career as a fisherman and a seafarer in coastal traffic. After fishing school and commercial school, he first became a guide on a rescue skate and then a district secretary in the Rescue Company. He married Fredbjørg "Molly" Jentoft. They had four children and ten grandchildren. When Asbjørn Holm was elected to the Stortinget of Northern Ireland in 1961 as representative of the newly established Socialist People's Party, he had already faced more than one noise. The central batch traps met a safe man who was at the height of the situation. With solid knowledge of fishing and life on the coast, Holm took important perspectives into the staging work. He took on many tasks and was an expedient spokesman for North Norway and for people who had it difficult. In his first growing-up period, he was a member of the Stortinget Fisheries Committee, while from 1965 to 1969 he participated in the work of the Industry Committee. Asbjørn Holm was a distinguished fellow man who came well out of it with all he met. He was a warm and thoughtful friend who more than gladly gave a handshake without regard to political or social divisions. After Asbjørn Holm ended up as a wholesaler, he continued his work for the people of the coast through work as district and state secretary of the Rescue Company. For more than 40 years he served in the company, also in the last years as a member of the Central Board. In 1988 he was awarded the King’s Medal of Merit in silver for his great and unselfish work. Former Major Gunnar Johnsen is dead, 76 years old. Gunnar Johnsen was born in Oslo in 1924. After graduating artium in 1944 and philological studies at the University of Oslo, Gunnar Johnsen became a journalist in Sandefjord's Blade. Via Højre's Press Office, he came, in 1954, to Drammen's Official Journal and Buskerud Blad as a political journalist. In 1961 he became a political editor in the newspaper. In parallel with his journalistic activity, Gunnar Johnsen became involved in local politics. He was a member of both the city council and the school board of Drammen in the period 1964-75. In addition, he had several county offices. Johnsen got involved early in the press organizations and was president of both the Vestfold Journalist Club and the Drammens Journalist Club. In the years 1968-1973 he was chairman of the Conservative Press Association. In 1970 he was elected President of the Right Buskerud – and in the decade 1968 to 1978 he was a member of the Right National Government and Central Government. When Bernt Ingvaldsen withdrew from Stortinget, Gunnar Johnsen was an entirely natural candidate as his successor. In the autumn of 1973 he was elected to Stortinget as a representative of the Right in Buskerud. He wanted to follow in Bernt Ingvaldsen's footsteps also when it came to committee position, and was delighted to join the defense committee, where he quickly marked himself as an insightful and very committed representative. Gunnar Johnsen, however, was content with one big period, not because he did not like the big work, but because he received an offer that he could not resist: he was offered the position as chief editor in the Official Journal of Drammen, a position he held from 1977 to 1992. Gunnar Johnsen was very much like the Stortinget. He was quick, efficient and authoritative, but at the same time cooperative and jovial. He was a master at reconciling factually strong arguments with a free and living form. The journalist in him also did not deny himself in the years of the Stortinget. Both as a journalist and a politician, he was loved and feared for his sharp pen. We remember Torkell Arnold Tooth, Asbjørn Antoni Holm and Gunnar Johnsen with deep respect and gratitude for their action on the Storting and shining peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e134	The representative Sverre J. Hoddevik will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e137	On behalf of Per-Kristian Foss, Erna Solberg and myself, I will be allowed to promote two private proposals, one on simplifications and improvements in the construction process and a new proposal on time limits for (a) government agencies' opposition possibilities in general and regulatory plans and (b) the processing of private regulatory plans by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e142	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e154	The Court of Auditors has held in Document No. 1 for 2000–2001 confirmed again the central role of the Riksrevision in effective control of public administration. One can read from the notes made for the financial year 1999, that the Riksrevision plays a very important role in the development of administrative efficiency in central government, and that some economic reforms in recent years are due to the recent initiatives taken by the Riksrevision. That's what the Riksrevision deserves. Now I am not going to comment on the notes that have been made, just make sure that a number of defects and errors have been identified again. The accounts are not approved for the Ila National Prison and Insurance Centre, the Norwegian Veterinary College, the Nord-Trøndelag High School, the Rikshospitalet Pharmacy and the Radium Hospital Pharmacy. In addition, the accounts of the Customs and Tax Directorate, the Central Statistical Office and the State Inventors’ Guidance Office are only authorised subject to reservations. All of this is critical. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee considers this to be a serious matter. It is therefore necessary for the institutions and responsible departments concerned to rectify the facts which have been raised. With regard to the financial management of the departments and the enterprises concerned, a major effort has been made to address problems resulting from the introduction of new economic systems, but still a great deal remains to be done. Therefore, the whole administration must give priority to the problems associated with accounting and financial management. I'm counting on the state councils that are present here now to take this with me. Otherwise, I refer to the Committee's other comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e171	In this report from the Riksrevision, 37 cases have been raised. The Committee takes a serious view that there are several accounts the Riksrevision has not been able to approve or has only authorised subject to reservations. It is serious that the introduction of new economic systems continues to create problems, and it is important that the problems of accounting and financial management are prioritised by the entire administration. Several of the cases deal with large cases and the balances related to the invitation, including: related to inheritance taxes and taxes of non-resident companies and employees. Shorter processing time and high priority of the collection work are essential here. As regards the treatment of malpayments and misuse of return benefits, outstanding balances on such cases have doubled from 1998 to 1999. This is serious, and the Committee assumes that the Ministry will follow up on the work of the Directorate-General for Labour to take appropriate action to improve the procedure in this area. It is important that routines are followed so that requirements are not outdated. The error rate in pension payments has not been reduced in recent years. This is not satisfactory. For the individual recipient, it may be very difficult to verify the correctness of the payments. Moreover, the Committee is pleased that almost all pensions are paid in a timely manner. The National Audit Office has found major shortcomings in the defence storage and control of weapons and ammunition stocks. This gives rise to concern, and the Committee would stress the importance of proper control of the defence. Some of the cases are repeaters. It is serious that relationships are pointed out several times by both the Riksrevisionen and the Stortinget without this being corrected. This is particularly serious when the situation for some of the cases has worsened on the contrary. Otherwise, I refer you to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2090]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e200	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2091]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e214	The annual review of the control by the National Audit Board of the government’s management of the State’s interests in companies, banks, etc. in 1999 gives us a good overview of what is happening in this area. The objective of the Riksaudition’s control is to take a position as to whether the Council of State has exercised its task of managing the interests of the State in accordance with the assumptions and decisions of the Storting. One of the themes included in the document is the merger of Telenor and Telia and the subsequent liquidation of the new company, Newtel AB. The main costs were the planning of the integration of the two companies. In total it was used approx. 250 million. kr on the discontinued merger with Telia. The Control and Constitutional Committee noted that there was a gap between the figure given in the bulk documents and that contained by Telenor AS in its accounts. This is because the amount includes costs that Telenor has incurred but are not included in the sharing with Telia. Also the Post Norway BA is one of the companies mentioned in the document. The accounting centre of the item has been converted into a limited liability company and 115 people have been transferred to the new company. This was done without presenting the matter to the general meeting of the Post Norge BA. According to the Ministry, it is not a question of separation of activities, and therefore the case should not be dealt with under Section 10 of the Statute, which states: «Cases relating to the separation of basic activities and essential supporting functions within the company shall be submitted to the general meeting.» The matter is still before the Court of Auditors, and the Committee has therefore not taken a concrete view on whether the matter should have been referred to the General Assembly. But I think it is worth mentioning that in its comments the Committee has made it clear that the practice of the statutes must not lead to a narrowing of the scope in practice. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[See page 2091]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e246	The purchases of goods and services by the university and higher education sectors in 1998 amounted to DKK 2.1 billion or approx. 25 pst. of the total operating costs of the activities. The National Audit Office’s survey therefore addresses an important area in relation to a more efficient use of resources in this sector. The study comprises four universities and 34 higher education institutions. The study shows that as much as 74 pst. the establishments have not established objectives for the purchasing function. Of the companies that had set themselves objectives, only two companies could point to concrete savings targets. The study also shows that only 42 pst. the establishments did not have written procedures for the award of procurement authorisations. A majority of businesses had also not developed order and delivery control procedures, while 48 pst. have no written procedures for checking the invoice against delivery. The study also shows that the companies have made too little use of competition in the market to squeeze costs of purchasing goods and services. A positive feature is that most of the major enterprises in the survey had established purchasing cooperation. However, this applies to only a few of the smaller establishments. The Committee considers that the companies could have saved significant amounts if the procedures had been better, as the investigation revealed clear weaknesses in the business policy and procedures related to the purchasing activity. There is reason to believe that these conditions will now be corrected. I would also like to point out here that there is agreement between the Ministry and the National Audit Office that there are weaknesses in the procurement activities of the university and higher education sectors, and that an efficient and well-functioning purchasing function is important in order to make the best use of the resources in the sector. The government’s emphasis on the renewal of the public sector is a further signal of a better public sector use of resources. The Ministry also acknowledges that significant efforts will be required to correct the weaknesses identified by the study. The Committee notes that the Ministry will consider what additional measures will be necessary to remedy the situation identified. The Committee therefore assumes that the Ministry will follow up the weaknesses identified by the Riksrevision in its study of the procurement activities of the higher education sector and that the Ministry will now ensure that procurement procedures are improved. The position of the Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2092]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e288	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2092]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e302	The study by the National Audits shows large differences in the measurement of aid for children with the same needs for care, and it seems that a unanimous committee is regrettable. We believe that the legislation should be similar in so far as it is possible to follow up, even if the issues are different. The Committee notes that the purpose of aid under the Law on Social Security is to provide financial compensation for specific supervision or care due to permanent sickness or injury, and that the legislation in the area of social assistance provides for a high level of discretion in the individual counties. That is why it was important for the National Audit Office to send cases to the various social security offices and county employment offices to look at how to deal with these cases. What has emerged from the study is that there is a different treatment according to the legislation we have. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that the decisions taken in the cases are far too widespread. In some cases, the decisions vary from refusal to acceptance of the highest rate, a difference of more than NOK 60000 per year. years. Therefore, like the National Audit Office, the Committee would stress the importance of a follow-up to this work and that a number of measures are being taken to ensure a more consistent assessment of these important issues for those concerned. We also know that more than 500 million were paid in 1999. kr in auxiliary social assistance. It is therefore important that the Ministry now follow up the important work of restoring confidence, that one looks at the lack of coordination in the social security system between individual social security offices and county social security offices with a view to achieving a level playing field, and that a better measurement of the aid benefit is based on the needs of one. We in the Committee have noticed, after contacting the Ministry, that the Rikstrygdeverket will give priority to action to address the shortcomings and weaknesses that may arise in the procedure and that this will be implemented during the first half of 2001. We also want the Storting to be properly informed about this important work, so that we can follow up and do something about the unworthy discrimination we see here. Furthermore, I refer to the Committee's position, which is unanimous. We hope and believe that the Council of State will take up this work, and that we will be dealt with in terms of the misunderstandings and inequalities that may be in this area, so that we can get a system that everyone can serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e319	It is important, as case-rapporteur Vidar Kleppe now said, to ensure that the aid for children and young people under the age of 18 is as equal and accurate as possible. This is, as we all know, a rights-based social welfare scheme that is intended to provide financial compensation for separate supervision or care because of permanent sickness, injury or hearing, and is based on the law of popular security. The National Audit Office’s investigation and report show, as the representative Kleppe said, that there has been reason to ask questions about the treatment of the social security system really based on a fairly consistent and robust exercise of judgement and whether one has taken into account the requirement of non-discrimination. Major variations in the number of beneficiaries of the aid have been identified. The Committee's particular attention is that there is a low level of acceptance in high-scanning countries, but a high level of acceptance where the search is low. This makes it natural to look at procedural practices. The report of the National Audit Office has been submitted to the Ministry of Social and Health. I think it is very positive that the department has launched so many important measures to develop a safer and more uniform assessment exercise in the social security system. There is also reason to commend the National Agency for the follow-up that has been done so far, in order to ensure the most equal and accurate measurement of aid for children and young people under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e332	What this study reveals is serious. It must be expected that families with children in need of help will be treated in a similar way and that they will receive the benefits required by the legislation. However, the study shows that there are considerable differences in the measurement of aid for children with the same needs for care. The survey is based on a review of documents, statistics, interviews and a peer-to-peer survey. In the vignette survey, the estimation exercise was investigated by allowing social security offices and county employment offices in all counties to deal with the same demands for aid. Most of the cases were widely spread in decisions. And as we've heard, the decisions in some of the cases varied from rejection to acknowledgment of the highest rate, that is. a difference of more than 60000 kroner per year. years. The auxiliary aid code provides space for a high degree of discretion. However, the variations identified by the investigation give reason to ask questions about the procedure based on a reasonably consistent and safe exercise of discretion, and whether legal certainty and non-discrimination considerations are adequately addressed. It is mainly such that the acceptance rate is low in high-scan states, and high in low-scan counties. The review shows that there are different opinions on which case data are relevant and how these should be assessed. The Swedish Social Security Agency has pointed out that the findings of the Social Security Court are an important source of exchange of experience in the establishment, but the study shows that these findings are not used in the proceedings. There is little cooperation between the aid beneficiary countries, and there is relatively limited cooperation between social security offices within the same county. A majority of the interviewers believe that the variations are not due to the design of the legislation itself, but to a lack of knowledge or understanding of the legislation. Proper and correct procedures require the establishment and maintenance of the necessary and detailed competence. The Rikstrøgdewerk should enhance the guidance and follow-up function towards the outer floor in this area. Regionalisation of the procedure could increase the competence and professional environment, but could also increase the risk that knowledge of the applicant’s local situation might not be adequately assessed. Over the year, the Auxiliary Social Fund has received little attention from the Ministry and the National Agency for Social Security. To a large extent, it appears that it has been up to each county agency and social security office to establish its own practice of granting and measuring aid. The Committee would stress the importance of the Ministry’s prioritisation of the process of achieving a more consistent assessment of the award and measurement of aid to children and young people under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e347	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2092]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e361	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e372	Sport receives a lot of attention in Norwegian society, not only in World Cup days like these, but also in general. Everything, from the work done in the local layers to the professional sport, has a self-esteem for us who experience it, and – to say it in a way – for the practitioners. But the main reason why the state spends so much resources on sport is, of course, that it is health prevention. In addition, of course, it has some other values that are also important for society in general, not least related to the work on a national and cultural identity. There is a broad consensus in the Stortinget on sports policy, as the setting also shows, even though it has occasionally been tried to construct contradictions in the media. Therefore, this is an attitude that bears the mark of a great deal of consensus and a few specific comments and minority suggestions. In the long process that has taken place since the central government presented this communication at the end of the last century, the Committee has even organised its own open consultation. The starting point for the consultation was commercialisation and doping, but much of the reason why it was so successful was enough to go far beyond the topic of the hearing. It's a modern message in the sense that it's the ability to take on the changes that happen in society related to the way we exercise physical activity. At the same time, the priorities of the state funds we are going to use in the future are given clear political leadership. And if at the beginning of the year some representatives of bigots have led someone to believe that this is about doping and top sports, it's very little in line with the content of the setting. The voluntary nature and the work associated with it are crucial to the daily work of each local team. That's why it's in the right place, even from our side, to emphasize and value this work. At the same time, we see that very much of the physical activity that happens, is organized and exercised by the individual. It takes the setting into account, and it is being raised in both our construction and activity policies. It is child and youth sport that naturally becomes the most focused. In this context, it is important to focus on the perceptions we get from sport, even if two groups have different challenges related to sport. This may be the case primarily in the field of youth, where the dropout rate is high, and where construction and activity policies must take account of it. For this reason, both authorities and sports themselves should focus on how we will be able to keep young people in physical activity in the future – and preferably within sport. I experience more about the challenges of child rights in getting universality into the activities that are taking place. Then I realized that sport has more challenges, but the main focus of the message is: Children's and youth's rights Wide range of activities and facilities self-organised activity and the ability to carry out it At the same time, overall societal developments are needed to develop new meeting places and for venues where activities can be carried out on their own. The Committee has noted that the tension within sport and not least within organisations has increased from the local team up to the top sport and professional sport. This leads to greater distance, not least when one experiences what might be called progressive commercialisation within the top-notch, and at least within parts of the top-notch, a professionalisation. It is also necessary for sports organisations to take inwards. More and more athletes are also becoming workers in the usual sense, and it requires the professionalisation of sports organisations that they also have to take inwards. It's important for people's health that physical activity is carried out, but it's not necessarily related to increasing training volume – it might have been good for myself to clarify it. It is also important to stress that organised sport will never replace the self-activity that takes place through easier training such as walking, cycling, skiing, etc. But for state sports policy, this will be an important element. That is why the vision drawn to sport policy is the right one as social development is today. The coverage of installations is good in large parts of the country. Here, the challenges may be more related to keeping them together or rehabilitating them. Now I have noticed that there are often built special facilities without this necessarily having been seen in connection with other sports or activities that organize people. It is also striking to record the blooming and focusing of some types of installations at different times that the notification presents. We also see that there are large differences in the construction coverage between the counties, where the major cities clearly differ negatively with little coverage of installations. So for once we have a situation where in the districts we actually have a better offer than what you have in the big cities. We have to help change that. But then the big cities themselves must be able to prioritize this. When there are almost no arenas for children and young people, political emergency is primarily caused by local politicians. An example of this is the Municipality of Oslo, where we've even tried to throw 4.5 million. kr after the Civic Council in order to build a multi-purpose hall. But they wouldn't. And then there's little we can do with that from Stortinget's side. But the mechanism to stimulate the construction of multi-purpose halls in densely populated areas, we now ask the Government to consider following up through the annual budgets, as this is also fully in line with the message's intentions. We also experience that children and young people are being pressured out of facilities and halls through the price policy pursued at the facilities. It would have been desirable to have a system that would allow us to attach the condition to the state plant grant that the facilities were put at the disposal of children and youth, as some municipalities already do. Now most people in this house will probably agree that it's going too far in detail management of the municipalities. But I hope they notice this signal, and that here we get a better development in the future. There is also an ever-increasing debate on the use of squeezing agents. Today we have a third between culture, sport and research. From the Labour Party we are not strangers to looking at the possibility of a two-part division, but doing so today will have consequences that particularly affect research. That is why this will be a matter to be considered where it belongs, namely in the budgetary procedures. So over to the relationship between us and the Norwegian Sports Federation. Of course, it is important to distinguish between policy objectives and sport’s own organisations. At the same time, it is important for us to look at how the money is used. Therefore, there is every reason to look at how organisations choose to manage themselves and where they spend the money. The Workers' Party wants to get more money out for activity in the teams, so that we can achieve the goals of the Sports Communication. We've been told in the past that the Sports Communication defines sport and physical activity as the overall vision of state sports policy, and given that there are two governments that have supported it, this should be a message that can be absolutely recommended for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e423	The representative, Mr Alstad, rapporteur on the matter, has made a thorough and good presentation of the position and the views of a whole committee. It is true that two governments have supported this communication, so that there is a broad majority, as also the case-rapporteur stressed, behind the important fundamental points of view that lie in the vote. I just want to mention a little detail in the setting that I would like to ask the representative Alstad to explain. There is a small minority comment where the Workers' Party sends a small greeting to its own government, asking the Government to consider restoring the appropriation for sport as its own item in the annual budget proposals. I assume that they, although there is nothing in the setting about it, have thought about what this money might be going to. How are they to be distributed and, where appropriate, what is the extent to which such allocation should be made? Is that how to understand that you just want to reintroduce something that was, about the same pattern, or do you want a new orientation in relation to the allocation that was removed a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e432	I have rarely been more pleased with a question than I was with this question. In the message, we try to focus a little on this with political direction of sport. For some of us, it was a great paradox to the newspaper essays that appeared just after New Year, where there were some politicians, perhaps first and foremost the right, who went out and began to demand stronger political governance of the sport. It was a paradox to us that a few years ago, the same bourgeois majority removed the only control that Stortinget had over sports, that is, the budget line where the Stortinget was given the opportunity to provide guidance on how to spend its money, or how the state should give priority to the funds that were sent away. Instead, the Communication provides for a four-yearly report on sport, and the Communication on sport can be a good starting point for better discussion of sport policy in this country. Every four years may seem a little small, at least when the notification states that there should be an annual report on sport. My experience with presentations is that it is a very little suitable management tool for Stortinget. We are invited to participate in a debate, often on current issues, without being able to see more thoroughly what kind of political governance we should have in terms of our sport objectives. That is why the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have stood firm on what we stood by last time, namely that we do not want to weaken the Stortingen's ability to run political governance with regard to the funds that go over the state budget. That's why we also want to get it reintroduced if it's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e448	Let me first say that I think it would have been an advantage for the political debate on the case rapporteur to stop using the term 'civil majority'! It would also be in line with the time and the challenges we face together. Then the case rapporteur was happy to get this question from Lånke, and I'll follow up there a little bit. So it is now set to be notified once during the period and annual reports. The budget shall also mention how this money goes to sport is managed. So there is plenty of opportunity, based on the system now set up, to debate sports in Stortinget. I would therefore like to repeat the question: why do you have to have your own post all over the world? It also belongs to this story that own post of less than 10 million. kr was never used as a starting point for any thorough debate in Stortinget in previous years. Fortunately, now there is no majority in favour of this proposal. The second question would be: if the government were to come back with a suggestion to take a little post in order for us to debate it, where would Alstad want to take that money from? He doesn't mean to start taking funds into this budget in such a sizeable way, does he? Then we have to think through the consequences and take the whole system of sports money into the debate in Stortinget. The alternative is to take it from the cultural sector, and I didn't think the Workers' Party would go for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e457	No, the Workers' Party is not going to take money from culture and transfer it to sport, or vice versa, even though Lahnstein likes to make it this way. If I'm going to stop using the term 'the bourgeois majority' – what in the world am I going to use when I'm talking about the side that's clearly the most conservative in this room? I can say the non-socialist majority. It has the same meaning. In any case, I will not – even in the future, I promise Lahnstein – stop using that term when we see that the conservative forces in this room merge to pursue a conservative policy. Lahnstein said that presentations give plenty of opportunity to debate sport. Yes, it was Minister of Culture Lahnstein who in his time introduced two presentations to the Storting, one on media policy, and now the proposal on sports policy. I hold fast to what I said before – I don’t think it’s an appropriate management tool from Stortinget’s side to discuss the policy. It gives us an opportunity almost on a tight arm to discuss some things, but there is no suitable management tool to discuss this in the same way that messages give us an opportunity. Then Lahnstein was convinced that the post that was there and that Minister of Culture Lahnstein in his time had been removed – I understand that Lahnstein’s representative does not support this now – was not used. Well, it was used constantly, it was. It did not lead to the major sporting policy debates here in Stortinget, but it has more to do with Storting's focus on sports policy. But we used it, and we gave clear leadership. In particular, you can go back and look at what happened in relation to equal opportunities in sport. For years, the size has used just that item to clarify that work needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e477	As the rapporteur says, there is not so much that separates the political parties from this big message. One of the few things is the question of the extent to which private operators can enter into cooperation with regard to facilities where the State has provided financial support. The party considers such cooperation to be of the utmost benefit to both parties, and perhaps especially to sports, where financial resources such as the individual event, the individual gymnasium or the individual sport may be used to produce even more sport for even more. What's wrong with this, when it's going to serve the best of sports in total? And if some private actors make money, then what?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e482	I do not disagree, with the exception of the last sentence, with the spokesman of the Spring Party in this context. That is why the Communication does not prohibit the cooperation of sport with private actors. It happens every day in sports that you make sponsorship contracts and that kind of thing. What we say no to is that the proponent's spokesman was in the last sentence: what's wrong with private making money? Well, this is government money, it's taxpayers' money. They will go to stimulate sport – they will not go into the pockets of private businessmen. They shall go to the best of the community, to serve those who have been with and paid the tax money and the tipping money – they shall not be paid as private profits to individual operators in this system. We have said no to that commercialisation, but I note with great interest that the Progress Party is open for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e493	The government’s report on the state’s relationship to sport and physical activity was presented by the central government just one year ago. It has given the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss sports policy from different points of view. Both the communication itself, the debate on doping and not least the open consultation organised by the Committee have contributed to important societal insights into the major challenges facing sport. The very title of the communication, the changed sporting life, suggests whether the adaptation process of sport is involved in as a result of a rapidly evolving society. In short, these trends can be summed up by increasing individualisation, increasing wealth in the population, changing lifestyles, following modernisation, increasing the volume of profit-based activity offers and increasing media focus, to name a few. These and other factors have put both the sport movement and the other free organization under strong pressure. This has helped and made it imperative to update the basis of the state’s sport policy in view of the next decade. The main purpose of the communication is to further develop and clarify the country’s sport policy objectives. I am happy to note that the message was well received and has received broad support from a joint committee. At the same time, we can state that the need for a more regular discussion of sporting policy issues has been reinforced by the work on the communication. Whether this is to be done through communications each period and presentations, or whether it should be linked to the annual budgetary debates, at least I think that in particular is more secondary. Not only the fact that sport manages large economic societal resources but also the overall interface between sport and the rest of society makes it necessary to have a high level of transparency and an active dialogue between organisational life and political bodies. The opinion of the Committee is, with few exceptions, unanimous. Above all, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to stress that the various proposals contained in the communication build as much as possible under what is indicated as the very vision of sport policy, namely sport and physical activity for all. This implies giving the greatest possible opportunity to engage in sport and physical activity. At a time when physical inactivity represents a threat to our health, this becomes an important social policy objective. Particularly worrying is the fact that so many young people take away sports and physical activity. This challenge affects a great many aspects of society and therefore affects different policy areas. The scope of the notification applies primarily to the framework conditions for organised sport and the allocation of funds to facilities and activities. It is difficult during a brief article to answer all the questions that have been addressed in the setting. An important issue has been to clarify the state exposure through the aid granted and to maintain the principle that the grant of the tipping funds should not form the basis for profit-based ownership or be converted into profit for private owners. With regard to the framework distribution of gambling funds, it is important to stress the need to ensure that access is fairly equal for the population, irrespective of the place of residence. This is the justification for the balancing mechanism implemented. This means that a supplement is maintained for the northern part of the country and classified social benefits at a higher grant rate for municipalities with low population and low investment capacity. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise the investment in community facilities, and in particular in relation to the outdoors of schools. It is also important that the requirement to facilitate people with disabilities be continued. At regular intervals, especially in the media, there has also been a focus on the adverse effects of competition. In particular, the problem of doping has been in focus, but also phenomena such as body fixation, use of houses, alcohol abuse, etc. All of these are important issues on which we note that the Norwegian Sports Association and the sports organisations themselves are very concerned. I would like to highlight in particular the work undertaken by the Norwegian Sports Association to clarify and make visible the value of sport, not only at the top level, but also in the circles and in the individual sports teams. It is very important that sport takes the consequence that it wants to be value oriented. In particular, this applies to top-notch sport, where the performers are put under enormous pressure, not least through their international branching. But even within the child's age, in the age-determined classes, it's important to consider that this is where the basis is laid for what's coming later. Good attitudes and habits must be rehearsed early. Strong fixation of idols along with the desire to drive promising talents can easily trigger unfortunate press mechanisms and social exclusion. It is therefore desirable and necessary to stress that specialisation and competitive pressure should not be given a dominant place within the field of child sport. Finally, I just want to point out to the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad's posts, who will complement part of these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e526	From time to time, the Workers' Party feels that our political opponents are trying to create a suspicion that there is a link between the Workers' Party and other important institutions in society. Nor during the hearing that the committee had, did we avoid this question, before the representative Lånke, the State Council asked Ellen Horn a question as to whether she felt there was a large enough distance between the work movement and the sports movement today. My question to the representative Lånke is: Does not the representative Lånke think that he shoots himself in the foot, since we know that the Bondevik government had a State Secretary in the Ministry of Culture who had been Secretary-General of the Football Association and who is now Secretary-General of the Sports Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e533	When I asked the question I asked at the open hearing, it was especially with the background in the historical fact that there have been very close links between the labour movement and not least the state part of the sports policy, it can be documented differently. It has also led to the closest watertight bulkheads around this, and it has been, in other words, harmony between the sports organisations and the political governing bodies under the Labour Party regime. This was why I wanted to put the question forward. I don't think I'm going to go any closer to this and now. Then the representative Larsen asks me if I shoot myself in the foot, or if we have pigs in the woods when we have a State Secretary who has become the Secretary-General of the Sports Association. This country is not so big, and people often move and have to act with different hatreds at different times. In any case, I personally have not noticed anything that these compounds have affected the material content neither in the message submitted nor in the process that has been passed on in connection with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e540	As has been said before, there is not so much to engage in to create a fresh debate, because there is a broad consensus on the communication of sport as it exists. But in a few areas, the Progress Party remains outside the majority's remarks. This is the case with the additional North Norway Supplement, stressing that it provides an additional grant of 20-25 pst. in addition to the normal rates. The majority also agree that municipalities with a weak economy receive an additional grant of 10 pst. in addition to the ordinary grant. The Sports Association has carried out on its own initiative studies on the impact of the additional grants. It is interesting to see that the municipalities that receive the extra grants are also the municipalities that give the least to sport. And the municipalities that get the least in transfers of sports equipment are also the municipalities that give the most to sport. If one arranges it statistically, one can see that among the first ten municipalities that give the least, there are actually seven sections within the area that have extra grants. While in the case of the municipalities that give the most to sport, there is not one municipality that is in the areas where additional grants are granted. So my question to the representative Lånke and the Christian People's Party is whether maybe at a later stage will look into whether the extra grants are based on the ambitions that the majority here clearly have, or whether it might be better for the sport itself to dispose of the funds and grant out of the needs of the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e549	The representative Sandberg addresses the graduated grant scheme in respect of installations. It is true in very many areas of society that there is a gradation of grant rates, the income system for municipalities, it applies in other areas and in this, and it is based on the situation that North Norway has special disadvantages in relation to the rest of the country, which is at a distance, weather conditions, etc., and there is also a desire to maintain residence in that part of the country. I must say, in response to the representative, Mr Sandberg, that we must always have such balancing mechanisms – of which I am a very strong supporter – to make a continuous assessment to see if they meet the objectives and objectives that have been set for them. Sandberg refers to statistics and comparisons that I can't easily go into here, but I can confirm that at a later stage we would like to see if these systems work as intended, whether they are good enough. We always have to be willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e556	I can't do it entirely to drill a little bit more in this so-called interlocutory, because I have to say that the answer to the representative Lånke was more imprecise thoughts than a precise storywriting in this field. I also have to say I record that when the Bondevik government had such a problem – if one can call it – it was because we are a small country, people change hats and people move on, so it was a right. It reminds me of another matter for the time being, which I shall not say anything about here. But there are different rules for the center than for the Workers' Party for this. I rather thought that we should admit to each other a certain degree of liberalism, given that we are a small country, that people are moving around, and that we have different situations, different hats. It would be strange if two of the largest movements in the country – the one sport movement, which perhaps covers one third of the population – were not to have some contact with the largest party and one of the big ones in this country. It would be a lot more striking. So now I'm a little disappointed that a follow-up to this by suspecting the Worker's Party based on this ratio. It seemed to me that small, and I hope we can find other ways of working. In the Committee, we now have a case for dealing with the transition between employment and other positions in the public and private sectors, and with the transition between policy positions in the departments and in the civil service. What the center has expressed both in the ears and today, when we focus on this question, is that it should give the impression that the center had much stricter solutions to transitions between these roles. So it might be interesting to get some advance from the representative Loan about the center is thinking about tightening these rules more than what the government adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e565	The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt seems clearly indignant about what she perceives as different rules of non-socialist cooperation than it does within the Workers' Party. I don't think so. But we have to be clear here that I spoke with a background in a long historical process, from just after the war, when you started building this country, and I refer to the article by Hans B. The scene in the evening post that clearly expresses that there has been a symbiosis between the labour movement and the management of the department. There's something of the background for this. And when also a sports president said that the Minister of Culture asks for trust, we have to ask if that is still the case. It is quite different from the fact that a person ends up in a political position and moves into an administrative position in sport. I think you have to look very bad if you don't see the difference between the two things. I do not see any reason to go into any changes in legislation regarding the transition from political to bureaucratic positions in this particular context. I think we'll have to do that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e575	After some time the Stortinget is soon in goal with St. ermeld. No 14 for 1999-2000 Changing sports life — a message that embraces a large or small part of our lives, but which, regardless of its size, is contributing to this. Most of us want sports or at least physical activity to have a greater part of everyday life than it has. That physical activity and health belong together, there is little disagreement about, and also that play and sports should be given a greater place in school. The Progress Party broadly agrees with the objectives of the Government for the rights of children and youth. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that children and young people are also given the opportunity to engage in physical activity during school hours and to facilitate the adaptation and localisation of facilities where children and young people live. Social interaction and training are important values of sport policy, and civil engineering policy needs to be adapted to this. The Progress Party believes that all-round activity should be given priority, so that it is possible for children and young people to avoid specialisation and pressure for performance – just to strengthen us as human beings both health and social. A very large part of the sport takes place in voluntary teams and associations without any kind of economic return, that is. It is operated by a great deal of effort. In addition to the physical, it is of great social importance. Then you have top sport, where some practitioners can make large sums in a short time, while other practitioners have a significantly lower income. In any case, these people are important for us to get recruiting and a width where the individual can participate as much as possible in his own premises. Therefore, the Progress Party wants a large top sport and a large width, so that they can harvest each other, i.e. one depends on what the other does. The activities of voluntary sport are therefore of major social importance and are perhaps one of the largest resources we have in society. Therefore, the Progress Party is fully aware that hard work and other profitable efforts are not taxed. Therefore, the Progress Party does not see any problems in the fact that sports teams that have received tippers can cooperate with commercial interests if this is in the interests of both. This can provide sports-based rental income that will be important means of operating, inter alia. gymnasiums. Cooperation between non-governmental organisations and industry is very positive in the view of the Progress Party. Such forms of cooperation will result in business and non-governmental organisations complement each other in the common interest. This could be done, for example, by: a sports team that has received tippers for a sports hall is expected to conclude a cooperation agreement with, for example: a private health centre for the disposal of parts of the building against certain benefits for members of the sports team. Here it has to be allowed to take advantage of each other if this serves everyone's interests in total. As it is today, this can only be done for short-term individual events. The Progress Party strongly believes that it must be up to each sport to cooperate with commercial interests. This allows for more money for sport, which in turn allows even greater activity for even more. This is again about quality of life, which in turn is crucial for, among other things. where you want to live. Furthermore, when revenue from other sources has increased significantly, the state contribution to sport is less prominent in the financing of sport. In addition, the emergence of centres selling the services produced by the sport is a feature of developments that may have an impact on the design of government policies. The Progress Party agrees with the description of the voluntary organisations and would stress that sport is a significant part of this. Furthermore, it is a feature of development that more people choose not to have membership in an organisation but to participate on an ad hoc basis outside the established organisations. It is therefore important to ensure that this participation can also take place within voluntary organisations and that financial support schemes adapt to these developments. The party of progress has noted the government's description of the poor construction coverage in the major cities. One of the reasons for this is that special conditions such as high land and construction prices, high use intensity and the difficulty of mobilising hard work in urban communities make it more expensive to realize facilities in these cities. Furthermore, cities have many older facilities with a high need for cost-intensive rehabilitation. The Progress Party has also taken note of Norway’s Sports Association’s clear decision on the prioritisation of State resources for civil engineering in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. The Progress Party supports the Government’s proposal to amend the award criteria for the allocation of funds to ordinary installations. It seems more appropriate to focus on the areas where there is a greater need for facilities than the municipalities applying for the most resources. The Party considers that the installation needs need to be emphasised even more strongly than the notification proposes, by weighting the installation cover by 50 pst. and approved application sum of 10 pst. The Municipality of Oslo has a particularly poor plant coverage, while the costs of operating facilities here are particularly high. The municipality also has as its capital some specific needs for the development of sports facilities. The Progress Party therefore considers that for a limited period of time, the State cooperates with the Municipality of Oslo and the sports organisations on a separate sport package for Oslo, where funds are provided, as mentioned above, according to the actual cost of each facility. Studies show that urban strips have received slightly less funding than the districts for this, and that, among other things, they have become very scarce. Sports halls in the cities. In addition, the Progress Party believes that sports are very important, so that there can be an instrument against the increasing violence among young people, especially in Oslo. Increased involvement in sport will also contribute to greater integration, so that in the future fewer problems will arise from the presence of minorities outside. For the Progress Party, the passive sport interest is also of great importance, either by being a spectator at sporting events, having an interest in television broadcasts or participating in sports-related games. Extensive media coverage of sports and high ratings at television sports events is a clear indication of a high interest in public sports. An event without cheering spectators would probably have been relatively uninteresting for the performers as well. So here we have a mutual dependence on each other. The sport has been in agreement with it and tried to facilitate this. I guess it could be a good example of a sprint run on skis, as we saw yesterday. The fact that things are going well for the Norwegians also increases the interest in sports. The Progress Party believes that in the future it will need to focus on building facilities that ensure a greater diversity of activities. Furthermore, it is important to focus on children and young people as well as simpler facilities in the neighbourhood. In addition, it is important to ensure the investments that have been made around the country in the past. The party of progress is opposed to the Government's wish to continue today's system with the county councils as a distribution point for tipping agents. The Progress Party wants the tipping agents to be distributed to the democratically structured umbrella organisations. These umbrella organisations, in the view of the Progress Party, have a better basis than the county municipalities to allocate funds to those who, in their view, are most in need of them. Against this background, the Progress Party does not see the need for balancing rates in Utkant-Norway. The Party wishes, in principle, to have public funds allocated to installations and equipment. The Progress Party has been made aware of examples of the allocation of funds for projects directly competing with operators operating on a commercial basis. It goes without saying that these projects, which are established with the support of the games, have a significant competitive advantage through government grants. The Progress Party considers that it is important to ensure that the rules on the allocation of funds make it clear that the distribution should not lead to distortions of competition in markets dominated by operators operating on a commercial basis. The Progress Party considers that it is necessary to amend the criteria for the distribution of funds in order to bring them into line with the objectives now being set for new facilities. The Progress Party wants to end today's third division of drugs, which go to culture, sport and research, and want to pass them on to non-governmental organisations in culture and sport, with the same amount on each of them. Tipping agents that are distributed must be used for wide-ranging and broad-based culture, and above all for activities that benefit children and young people. The Progress Party considers it desirable to set up a fund of up to 3 pst. are set aside each year by the funds in order to cover large parts of the additional investment required by, for example: OL and VM events. The Party proposes that such a system be introduced over a five-year period, from 1 January 2002. The funds from the Fund should also be used for the maintenance and upgrading of national facilities, so that they do not require excessive costs when they are to be used for major events. I refer to the proposal No of the Progress Party. 1 but the proposal states 2001. It's going to be 2002. The Progress Party will make it clear that the research funds should not be removed, but should be strengthened by the State budgets. Finally, the Progress Party believes that more attention needs to be paid to anti-doping work, but that this must be primarily a matter for the sports organisations themselves to address. It must be solved to a large extent by focusing on ethics in the sporting bodies. The Party of Advancement has great faith that sport itself will take hold of this, and that they are strongly focused on getting rid of this disorder. In this context, international cooperation is crucial, primarily in order to clarify international standards on what is considered doping and what is not. The Party considers that the involvement of the State should be limited to the control of sportsmen and that further efforts are being made at the Doping Department of Aker Hospital. The Party welcomes the introduction of a prohibition on the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e627	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e632	On page 10 of the opinion, there is a comment from the majority of the committee, all of which, except the Advance Party, emphasises that state aid should not ‘ form the basis for the forms of ownership that are to earn money or be converted into profits for private owners’. My question to the representative Bredvold of the Progress Party will then be: As long as the Progress Party is not involved in this comment, is it the policy and position of the Progress Party that it is okay that government money goes into the pockets of private profit hunters through sport, or does the Progress Party have a position in line with the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e639	No, it is not right that government money goes into the pockets of private actors. But if, in the case of the state funds transferred to sports teams, sports facilities, etc., which can then have positive cooperation with private actors, the sports teams are making money and the private operator is making money, that's fine. Here one has to see the whole, and the whole thing is that with the most money we can give in this case as much sport as possible. We get that by cooperating between sports teams and commercial interests in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e644	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e647	The right would stress that the national sport policy must be centred on the parallel sport and the unorganised self-activity. It is important to follow the development of the commercial training offer and record that this does not lead to a distortion of organised sport. On the other hand, this leads the practitioners to move from being part of the voluntary and member-based system to becoming consumers, or consumers. It remains to be seen whether this will lead to less activity in organised sport or whether it will be a supplement to the already existing activity. There are, as several have noted, large differences in plant coverage between counties. The major cities are clearly negative, with little or no coverage of installations. The coverage of swimming pools, multipurpose halls and ice halls is low in some parts of the country. This is also a municipal responsibility. But there is clearly a connection between the facilities being built and the activity experienced by the various sports. This, in turn, will lead to the possibility of developing top-notch athletes being associated with the facilities being built. Many facilities are of older age and need to be rehabilitated. It is important to safeguard the capital invested in the construction of installations, and we are pleased that there is still to be a focus on the rehabilitation of existing facilities around the country. The Committee considers it important to facilitate more self-organised activities. It will then be necessary to increase the focus on community facilities. Today, this type of installation has been separated as a separate application group with a ceiling of NOK 200000. There has been an increase in the number of applications for community facilities and with the public as the large applicant group. The Committee is therefore pleased that a simpler application procedure is being set up, and hopes that this will lead to an even stronger focus on this type of facility. Especially in cities, I think it's important to develop these kinds of loops and pinions and different variants that are now being developed, in order to bring up the activity in those areas. It underlines the need to focus on maintaining and developing a comprehensive and good range of activities at local level. It is also important to ensure that both the activities carried out by organisations and the self-organised activity are subject to conditions of development. In this context, it is essential that the stock of installations be adapted to the activities and social interaction between people. This means, therefore, that it is necessary to prioritise the use of versatile services so that the population can also make use of facilities for its own activities. Open gymnasiums and free activity in sports facilities are good measures that give rise to too much energy and give children and young people the opportunity to engage in physical activity without it being organised. I would also like to refer to the comments on which the Right is involved with the Advance Party, and some of the comments are also from a joint committee, which goes to sports facilities in the big cities. I think it is important that we simply accept the problem that it is much more expensive to establish this type of facility in the largest cities, and especially in Oslo, and that we also stress that this must be done in close cooperation with the municipal authorities. The representative Alstad had a kick to the City Council in Oslo because they had not received the money that the Storting had ‘thrown’ after them, as he said. It is true that the Right also took part in that comment, together with the then fractional leader Grethe Fossum, where multipurpose halls were dragged in as a direct proposal on the state budget. But when Oslo has chosen not to exploit it, we have to accept that Oslo has other priorities, and I know for sure that Oslo has a strong desire to develop a particular area of the environment. We support the proposals made by the Government to amend the award criteria for the allocation of funds to ordinary installations. But it is also important now that one emphasises the special conditions in the largest cities in the country, where all statistics and also the sports report show that there is a strong undercoverage of facilities. Sport is very important, so this can be an instrument against the increasing violence among young people, especially in Oslo. Increased efforts in relation to sports facilities and organisations active in integration will reduce conflicts between different groups. Even I have a son who for some years has participated in the Drafn Sports Association in the Drammen. There they had a project called ‘Irett makes color blind’, it was all right that eventually went over to be a football. It gathers children with all kinds of skin colors, with different backgrounds and different social status. But on the football field there was full speed and one for everyone, all for one. Some sling remarks about skin colour and background were made by the opponents, but were quickly turned on. The conversation became strong, and the sporting joy was great. There is little doubt that sport can make a significant contribution to integration. This should be even clearer on the part of the Sports Federation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e673	I'll quote from the record of the open hearing that the Committee had on St.meld. No 14th @item: It is from a question from the representative of Greece to the Council of State: ‘One thing is getting an entry on the State budget, another thing is the dialogue that is going on. For example, theatre, opera, voluntary amateur teams, etc. The decrease in order to receive DKK 100000 plus/minus each year, while the sport has been taken out of the public spotlight in a way.» Then I would like to ask the representative of Greece the following question: wouldn't it be better to have a post on the cultural budget for sport, so at least once a year we had the opportunity to discuss sports policy? However, this has been opposed to the right in the Committee, even though at the same time they want stronger political governance of sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e683	I believe just the kind of hearing that we had here in Stortinget, and the public debate that has been, that I realized that the representative before today almost criticized Alstad, is helping to put this issue on the agenda. It is not certain that a small post on the state budget is a guarantee to get a live debate in this room. I think it's symbol politics. We also have no wish on the Right to rule sport politically. It sounded like this to the representative of Alstad before today, that it was important to have political governance here. I don't want any political direction of sport at all, but I want sport to be part of the public debate on society, and I experienced when we had this hearing, both in front and after, that it actually happened. It was also the feedback after the hearing, that this was good because the sport itself got to the floor, we politicians were asked relevant questions, and we got a public debate in the newspapers as well. I don't think a separate post on the state budget will be anything but a sleeping cushion. I think maybe if we get a public debate, we can have an annual sports debate, maybe a sports report every four years, that's enough. But once I've raised this question to the Minister of Culture, it's because it's a paradox that when we had the Flax funds up for treatment, the cultural organisations had to be on the track, they had to stand outside the Storting, they had to come in here and work to get those funds out. It is more the internal procedure in the ministry that has been the problem in that matter, so it is a signal from our side that we want cultural life to be treated in the same way as sport, it must have the means that it is entitled to, and it has finally been given in these additional means that came through Flax. But it took some time, and I think the signal has been taken in the Ministry of Culture, and that sport also realizes that it is important to be part of the public debate, without necessarily having to be its own budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e690	A small question, perhaps rather an opportunity for the representative of Greece to clarify about cooperation between sport and commercial interests. On page 10, the right-hand side is on a majority point where, among other things, read: ‘State aid shall not form the basis for forms of ownership intended to earn money or be converted into profits for private owners.’ A little further down is the Right with the Advance Party, where we open up cooperation with commercial interests. So I'm asking for an explanation at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e700	It is nice that the representative Bredvold gave rise to that kind of clarification. This majority comment, which everyone except the Progress Party is in, I have seen as a comment that is primarily based on the kind of company formation that we see related to the large football clubs, that is, purely professional sport, and that the type of activity should not receive direct state subsidies. The joint comment with the Progress Party I see as a very innocent observation that, if a sport team wants to cooperate, for example. with a health studio or with others engaged in professional activity, there can be no problem as long as the sport team still has an open offer for all children and young people and provides the possibility of activity at a minimum cost for them. So the comment that goes on ‘profit-based work’, as it says, I see it as first and foremost that it can be a professional sport, while the second part goes more on that one can call hard work, the effort that creative souls in Norwegian sports teams make on a daily basis to get a few extra dollars in cash, and if one then engages in cooperation with commercial interests, it is positive for the ability that one has to acquire own income for the sport. It would be strange, I think, if the rest of the Storting didn't agree that the sports teams should have the opportunity to use their skilled trustees to be creative in getting income for the sport, as long as this benefits children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e705	I have listened attentively to the exchange of lines between the representatives of Bredvold and Helleland. I find reason to follow up a little, because I don't think Greece has been quite clear when he's done the boundary between what's happening locally, and what's happening higher up in more professional circles. Among other things, he mentions: that if a training studio cooperates with a sports club, it is very good. But what if one imagines that a sports club has received public support, games, to build a facility, also in collaboration with a commercial company, and the company then moves into parts of this house and so to speak, milks this facility? Is there no danger in such a problem? Doesn't Greece see that these can be unfortunate connections that you must at least be observant of?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e711	Well, I see that there may be difficult balances here, but that's exactly why the Right is also involved in the comment that mentions what I would call professional sports, and then I'm talking about a club that is close to Loan's heart, for example. Rosenborg's professional activity. There is a ‘big business’ every now and then it is obvious that one should not bring direct grants to the activity – they are doing well on their own. But as far as I recall, there were probably several people who considered joining in on the comment that sports teams must be able to cooperate with commercial interests. In that I do not add anything more than that if the sport Time spent in Women's Gardenslia in Ål finds out that they can go in and have a share in a health studio, have some of the income from there and pluck that income back to their unfortunately too few active members, it will be positive. And that's the kind of cooperation I'm thinking about. I don't put anything more into it, and I expect the department and the sports federations themselves to be able to interpret these remarks so that this is practiced in a good way. There will be difficult border crossings. And that's maybe an interesting problem, this with the transition from that one can call the principle of volunteering in sports to pure professionalism. And that break we now see in the big football clubs, where one on the one hand has investors who are looking to produce a good product with good profit, while one on the other hand has the old fires, who are looking to run sports teams according to old principles of membership voting and the choice of board, etc. Here I think we'll see a lot of the big breaks in sports policy in the years to come, and especially in relation to professional sports, so it's probably a theme for the next sports message.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e718	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e721	The message we are discussing today, called ‘Irregularity in Change’, was presented by the previous government in December 1999 and maintained by the new government. And that is an expression of the fact that this is a broad consensus on state sports policy and on the importance of the sport policy that we have. In addition, the Communication reflects the change in society. That is why, as the rapporteur said, this is a modern message, and it should really be lacking. That last autumn we had a debate on some aspects of top-notch, which led to the launch of a hearing in February, I thought it was very positive. The background may not have been positive, but the fact that we had the hearing on the values of sport was received positively, and I think we got to put on the agenda a number of questions for which there is a great deal of interest, and that we, as politicians and elected representatives, should also be concerned. The ratio of width to top is important when discussing sport, and it should be lacking if it is not given the greatest importance in the state sport policy. But we should also not deny that width and top belong together. And I think, now that we're enjoying ourselves -- I'm not of those who take it all off, to use that expression -- the sports performance and the results of the World Cup in Lathi these days, it illustrates just how important top-notch sport is, both in the form of role models and in the form of the joy it spreads. But let me stress what was the conclusion after the hearing, as I understood it, that here there is a need for debate. There is a need for vigilance, for sports organisations to show vigilance and openness so that there are also grey zones. And those who say that there aren't any grey areas, probably want to express that we're here very strict at saying that suspicion of doping is doping. But I'm not in doubt that you have to have a vigilance on this problem all the way. So to the goal of sports and physical activity for everyone. A lot has been said here about children and young people. In addition to what has been said about immigrants from Greece, let me add to the importance of sports activity for disabled people. I would also like to take the opportunity to point out the volunteering message and its follow-up, which has actually given a desired result in terms of more money to the member-based effect at local level. We've done the best we can in sports, and that gives us very good ring-effects. With regard to the conversion of civil engineering policy and the emphasis on the special needs of the big cities, local and multi-purpose facilities, I fully agree with what the message outlines, and I have no doubt that this will be followed up in a good way. In the debate, I have been a little concerned about the relationship between the Norwegian Sports Association and the Ministry of Culture, and I am so glad that we have also had a discussion about the distance between the democratic movement of sport, which has grown up over decades, and the Ministry of Culture, which, of course, distributes these funds by means of a royal resolution. I am absolutely sure that it is sometimes healthy to focus on it, and I also believe that the debate has made it absolutely certain that at least I feel sure that the necessary distance has been taken care of, and that new procedures from the Ministry of Culture are also being put in place to give the necessary hand in how the objectives we are drawing up are being met. The relationship with Stortinget has been discussed. I think it is reassuring and good that you get a message here during the period and a statement this year. This means that the Stortinget will have a rich opportunity to discuss this area, which I believe is becoming increasingly important as a policy area. And finally, let me – because I have one kepphest here – also stress that I believe that the physical activity and this with sport for everyone must first and foremost focus on outdoor life, and that the proximity to nature is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e742	In the World Skiing in Lahti, we have really seen top-notch in good and bad – great excitement and joy over the performance of our practitioners on one side, doping scandals on the other. The noble cape struggle without performance other than that of the performer alone, without an arsenal of medical and technical expertise and without pressure from commercial forces, is a saga mere. In many ways peaks and widths are located in two different worlds, but the ideals of tops are, first and foremost, almost at all costs, pushing children's and youth's sport. We're looking at the equipment press. Parents have come to me and told me that kids come home and demand food supplements to get better. It's clear that there's someone working on this. It is a crazy commercial pressure on children and young people, and we must take this seriously. The Child Court has its provisions, which are among the best in the world, on the universality and competitive conditions adapted to young people. But it does not appear to be the unconditionally innocent and trouble-free. The competition season for the youngest is held at both ends in several laps. Topping the layers, attendance and attendance requirements are so large from many that many 12- and 13-year-olds are tired. My soul has had many wonderful years in sports. I have experienced the enormous joy it is with others in common to master new skills, interactions between body and movement. This is the self-esteem of sport, which one finds both in peak and breadth, and which is an important reason for public intervention and responsibility. There is also a reason for the enormous effort – and I want to praise it – that parents and others put down. The second major reason is the public health perspective. We know that physical activity is vital to people's health. Inactivity is one of the greatest threats to public health. Load disorders account for 50 pst. by all medical consultations. Physical activity is essential for the development of young people. It gives mastery experiences, and for kids, mastery is very much linked to body. Motor development is essential for development through participation in games, for learning, for emotional and cognitive development. Therefore, it is good that the message emphasizes so much the value of physical activity, both through organised sport, and also through unorganised activity in and outside sport. SV supports the proposal to spend more money on community facilities, also linked to school farms. Many of the schoolyards are clean asphalt deserts and present little challenges to young people. But we in the UK lack a stronger emphasis on community planning that must aim to give everyone access to free space and opportunities for physical activity. We want it to be given more time to physical activity in school. We want multiple paths to be built that offer more possibilities for daily physical activity. We also want free rental of sports arenas for sport and physical activity for children and young people, so that it is possible to have such a low quota that no one is kept outside. Here, both municipalities and sport have a responsibility, also to limit the requirement for equipment, which excludes many from the possibilities of participation. The Committee has been concerned with grey areas and ethics in its work on this message. The relationship between sport and health must be at the heart of the wider debate. Here SV challenges both sport and the ministry. «Painkillers» are used today to enable an injured or over-trained practitioner to compete despite being able to cause long-term health damage. Unfortunately, sports invalids are something we're going to see more and more of. SV proposes that the Government should investigate the use of drugs in the broad and top world on the basis of the objective of proper medical use and prevention of abuse. Sport has always played a social role or has been a mirror of social development. SV believes that the progressive commercialisation of sport is a threat to sport as we have identified ourselves with it, and it is the duty of the big society to do something about this development. The symbiosis of the media, business and sports reinforces commercialisation and pressure on practitioners. We therefore believe that the Government must come back with measures that prevent advertising-funded media companies from governing sport through ownership. Therefore, we believe that it should be considered to prohibit advertising-funded media companies from buying shares in sport, whether in the case of sub-company clubs or in the case of equal rights. I then promote the SV's proposal that is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e763	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e766	Sport and physical activity are of great interest in Norway. It can be seen clearly when it's interesting to follow what's happening in Lahti these days, also in this house. Sport is Norway's largest international movement. The sports are channeling the spirit of hard work and playing a major role in well-being and public health. In addition, voluntary sport is a major social resource. The left believes that public efforts need to be directed more towards securing the lack of sport in Norway and providing services that activate children and young people, as well as facilitating exercise. To a lesser extent, the bet has to go to professional top-level sports. The left is one of the goals that the Government draws up for both child sport and youth sport. Children need to be guaranteed a comprehensive supply, and it is important that a priority is given to facilities in the local environment that stimulate their children’s needs for physical activity in both organised and self-organised forms. Last night we could read that studies show that children who use school kissing have poorer physical health than children who go to school. Young people need variation and challenges. The sports teams must have framework conditions that enable them to meet the requirements of new activities. Attribution schemes must support local sports and local involvement and not be reserved for large projects. In addition, the back-up schemes must ensure recruitment and premium activity, with minimum forms fields and documentation burden. It is important that voluntary efforts by many sports leaders and parents are concentrated on activity rather than bureaucracy. The public lotteries have taken significant parts of the gambling market and will soon control half of this market. The public then distribute funds to teams and organizations. The challenge ahead is to secure free income from sport, otherwise we may find ourselves in a situation where we have a sector that is reduced to public policy and does not engage in activities that the members want. The Left agrees with the Committee's emphasis on the need to focus on the wide-ranging and unorganised ownership of the country's sport policy. Touring and skiing, cycling, bathing, etc. are traditional activities that a large proportion of the population are engaged in. These activities are an important part of our culture and have a lot to say for the public. By leading this type of activity mainly in the natural environment, they help people get a close relationship with nature and strengthen environmental awareness. For the left, it's important. The use of nature by the arena also means that large investments in installations are not required. These are activities in the frontier country between sport and outdoor life. A comprehensive government policy on physical activity must stimulate a wide range of activities, regardless of whether they are traditionally defined as sports or outdoors. The left agrees with the sport policy vision ‘sports and physical activity for all’, and the Left agrees with its multiplicity, which points out that both self-organised activity and activity in other voluntary organisations – in addition to the NIF – have great value.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e785	Very many people in this country are engaged in sports. The newspapers have their own sports pages, and radio and TV have their own sports broadcasts. A top sportsman is being listened to not only in terms of sports statements but also in other social issues. That top-notch is important to most people, we see that they spend a lot of their time tracking. It is therefore important to ensure the basis for an ethically and professionally qualified top-level sports environment. By doing so, I believe that the top-level sports environment is a professional one, both on the performer's side and on the leader's side. In recent times, we have seen a number of sportsmen who have problems with their associations in relation to sponsorship and so on. And the confederations on their side have blackened with exclusion from the landscape or international participation. In my opinion, and quite a few others, it should be a matter of course that those who are most skilled in sports should participate in the national team. I am surprised that the federations do not see this as their task, but make rules and agreements that make it impossible for the best sportsmen to represent Norway – because they have not signed an agreement that has been negotiated, in fact, on their own, without the permission of sportsmen. Top sports are very time consuming, and often require a two-three daily training dose. It may be very difficult to combine with a professional, which means that top-ranking athletes are professionals. As important as being professional in the field of sport, it is that you are professional on both sides of the table as an employee and an employer. Allow me to say that I feel that it is very often that there is a lack of professional employers in the sports system. Through the hearing on the Sports Communication, it was emphasised by the NSA that there is a lack of both pension schemes and professional and non-life insurance for top athletes, and that there is simply no right to use one’s own name and image in relation to other sponsors, but must stick to what the association demands. In the system, there is also discrimination against female top athletes. They are offered less in terms of both payment and training opportunities. In the field of leisure, it is particularly difficult right now because the clubs have sold the rights to their practitioners without their knowledge and will, to the federations. In practice, this means that recreational practitioners have little opportunity to make money other than the NOK 50 000 – NOK 100000 connected to them. It's not much to live on, and in the long run it'll lead to the Friedrechtsbundet without top athletes. So let me stress that there must be a basic principle that the sports federations follow, that those who represent Norway abroad and on the national level are the best. It is not just the state that has major sporting challenges. The sport itself is in front of a decade of breaking. How are they going to continue their independence from the state while making greater demands on how to use the money? How will they organise to capture trends in time? The elite court is not dangerous; it will evolve. People want entertainment, people want circuses, and society needs to facilitate for the athletes to become artists on the sports front. The sport’s relationship with the mass sport is complicated. It's going to take new forms, it's going to take over for the kids. And how can the sports teams organize to capture this? It's a challenge. So what will sport-Norway do with the unorganized sport? Why won't women be part of the sports teams for the time being? Are they tired of being a backer? Are they tired of cooking coffee and making up for the hard work without having to participate in the sport themselves? Here's a lot of work done for sports Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e804	Children and young people are the main target group for state sport policy. This is precisely why it is particularly important what kind of value-based sport is based on. The sport has a clear self-esteem – youth should kick football because football is fun and not because it is prevention. All Norwegian sports, however, are based on values such as participation, involvement, addition and community. This has a peculiarly high self-esteem. Voluntaryness is one of the basic values of sport, and it should still be. With great interest I have read the sport's own value document 'There are values that can become gold'. It is positive that sport itself places values on the agenda. What is now the challenge is to get these values rooted in the entire organisation – down to every football day and in every ski group across the country. Children and young people, together with their leaders, have to own their own values of sport. And these values should not be doping, slender pressing, filling fasts, sex presses, and constantly testing new ways to reach the most far-reaching – contrary to the body's own needs and natural boundaries. It also has to take the consequence that it is value oriented. Both sport of breadth and top sport must be based on joy, health, community and honesty. I'm glad to see that sports organisations have addressed the challenges before this field, and that it's working to make the values and the gleams of the players that are the foundation of sport visible. During the open hearing in Stortinget on 2 February, claims were made about grey zones in sport. The use of houses, supplements and slimming is an example of such grey areas. At the same time, Norway’s Sports Association stated: ‘In doping there are no grey zones.’ However, NIF outlines that one in top sport is facing some ethical dilemmas. Some of these ethical dilemmas would call others grey zones. The search for ever better was also called 'the hunt for advantages' in the open ear. It was further claimed that a search for advantage is easily a premise for doping, and that slimming and hunting for a light body is part of the same logic. This may end up in an absurd situation if sports practice is not better controlled. Professor Gunnar Breivik said in the open hearing that ‘then we need to develop a top sport that takes the consequence that it is value-based. We must not allow our good anti-doping work where we are leading, to be destroyed by the pursuit of advantages in the grey zones.» It's an important moment to take further into account in your work. I started by saying that children and young people are the most important target group for state sports policy. This is precisely why it is so important that the sport represents a counterweight to cheating, performance pressure and doping. Here I would like to give a good example of KRIK – Christian Sport Contact – as a qualitatively important supplement in Sport Norway. KRIK is an example of the possibility of creating a wide-ranging range of rights even for mature young people, in a social framework where the competitive motive is razed. I am also aware that NIF has just started an extensive network work that currently includes 400 network workers, which through outreach activities should respond to the needs of the individual sports team. ‘Individuals for safe growth’ is also a good and important contribution to Norwegian sport movement, where a young person who has not done so easily in society is integrated into the sport team through support contacts. The «Fotball Against Racism» movement is probably an example of how sport is conscious of its responsibilities when it involves staggering work and engaging widely. The central government is presenting a communication on voluntary activities, which outlined measures to provide more resources for voluntary work at grassroots level. This has resulted in feedback from many who have now received new inspiration for activity. An example of this is a layer that received NOK 15 000 in support and was then overwhelmed by the fact that they sent letters of thanks. Finally, I will address a serious challenge to sport – in the same way as the rest of society – is facing. Unfortunately, some experience too close links between the sports environment and alcohol. Recently, there has been a great deal of focus on alcohol consumption in the Norwegian sports community. A central actor said when the alcohol problem was discovered that there was a party at each of the collections, and that there was a bit of alcohol. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee in the setting is so strongly dissociating from all use of alcohol in a sporting context, and that the Committee has noted that the sports board has developed guidelines on alcohol and sport on its own. This bracket must also be reflected in arena clamps and equipment advertising. Currently, there is a gap between ideal and clean in this field. But I hope and believe that sport will address this important challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e840	We live in a rapidly changing society. Developments have consequences in a number of areas, including sport. Therefore, the title of this big message is ‘Issuance of Change’. Developments also require increased attention and awareness from policy authorities. The message – promoted by the central government, to which the government of Stoltenberg has joined – draws up important principles for state support in the form of sporting and physical instruments. I am pleased that an overall committee has broadly endorsed the guidelines proposed for sport policy. Meeting places where identity can be built and established are becoming increasingly important. Local sports are not only central to giving better physical form, but are important arenas for social learning, cohesion and belonging. With the unique position sport has in Norwegian society, I certainly believe that sport is a suitable tool to counteract, among other things. racism and intolerance. The government is therefore particularly concerned with strengthening the activities of the local sports teams. There shall be a clear link between State sport policy objectives and the use of gambling. In 2000, a new grant scheme was put in place that provided the sports teams with an estimated 81 million. kr, which goes to work with children and young people in the local laws in its entirety. This is a concrete example of how the State can contribute to providing better framework conditions for local sport and that the assumptions of the Storting are followed up in practice. In its work, the Government will seek to strengthen that grant scheme and in addition contribute to the benefit of a greater share of the funds available to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. The Communication further highlights the continued focus and focus on the development and rehabilitation of installations. In the future, high-potential installations and facilities that can be used in particular by children and young people will be invested in. I have recorded that the Committee is developing multi-use halls in particular, and that a request from the Government is considering ensuring the development of such facilities, especially in built-up areas, through a separate grant scheme. The Ministry is constantly focusing on this challenge and is aware that construction coverage in some cities and urban neighbourhoods is lower than in other parts of the country. The government will actively seek to change this and will already, at the main distribution of the year, come up with measures to improve the current situation. However, a prerequisite for addressing these challenges will be that the municipalities involved themselves are also willing to give priority to this. However, much of the physical activity is self-organised. Simple facilities and areas in the community are therefore important to stimulate physical activity. The message highlights increased bets on so-called neighbourhood facilities, such as ball joints, ski areas, ake trays and simple tours. A particularly important step is the fact that the notification now opens up the possibility for community facilities to be built in relation to the outdoors of the school. Schools reach all children, and are usually walking distance from home. The Communication states that the State should also support Norwegian top-level sport. The justification is experience and identity-creating effect. Norway is a country with many excellent sports performances despite low levels of population, as we have seen with all clarity in Lahti these days. The top-notch as an identity makes sense only when it emerges from accepted Community values. The values that we want our children to grow up with on the loop must also apply to our top athletes. It is therefore a central signal in the Communication that State support should contribute to ensuring an ethical and professionally qualified top-level sport environment. In these days, doping in sport is a hot topic. The government therefore proposes to extend Section 162(b) of the Penal Code so that both use, acquisition and possession of doping drugs are prohibited. I find it very gratifying in this respect that a joint committee supports such a proposal. Furthermore, in close dialogue with the NIF, the Government will establish an independent control body. In addition, the Government will continue Norway’s active international commitment to both the independent anti-doping body WADA and bilateral agreements with China, South Africa and France. Support for awareness raising has increased in the allocation of the year, and the Board of Sport has already released the prosecution authority from management and administration. A comparison of our economic efforts in the area of anti-doping, which was made at a ministerial meeting in Helsinki three days ago, also shows that our contribution is significantly greater than in our Nordic neighbouring country. Overall, this measure demonstrates that the Government goes significantly beyond the message provided in the anti-doping policy. The government has the ambition that Norway will be at the forefront in this field. Society is changing, sport is changing. The message that is now finally being finalised marks a choice in many ways. In the future, the state’s focus on sport policy will be much more focused on children, youth, volunteering and the local environment. Direction given, work may begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e859	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e863	The councils were in the open hearing we had, a bit questioning from the Storting on the issue of their own budget line for sport. So the majority have now concluded that we don't want to do that. Her own party has agreed. But Stortinget is interested in sports issues. My question to the Council of State will be simple and straightforward: How will the Council of State inform and come to the Stortinget on matters on the sporting policy agenda? Has the Council of State considered how the Storting could be more involved in the interesting debates that are taking place in general in society on the position of sport, without necessarily relieving itself by the principle that sport is getting its money through the drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e868	I have the clear impression that sports issues will be more focused in the future and more prominent in the political debate. I think the sport is worth it. As the Committee itself points out in the vote, Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss sport policy through the annual budgetary procedure. Also, the regular questioning, spontaneous questioning and interpellations give the Storting the opportunity to focus on sports policy issues. In addition, the Communication proposes the provision of a major communication on sport and physical activity during each major period and a statement in the Stortinge on developments at regular intervals. If it turns out that the absence of a separate item in the State budget weakens the scope for the political debate, we must consider this too by reintroducing our own item. But I record that it is not a majority to reintroduce such a post, and will follow the debate continuously and contribute to the quality of the debate being as good, alive and meaningful as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e879	A little over a year ago, we could record that the then Minister of Culture Åslaug Marie Haga and the Department worked on a bill that would ban martial arts that allow knockouts. In the municipality of Elverum, tokwondo is one of the biggest sports in the world when you look away from boxing. The two clubs have approx. 120 members with a good mix of girls and boys of different ages – this is an example of what we have in the breadth of Norwegian sport. Does the Council of State work with the idea of banning some kind of sport we per. current date in Norway, or is she willing to expand the list we already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e888	The Ministry of Culture is working these days on a proposal on these issues, with which we will come to the Stortinget in less than a very long time. We can come back to the conclusion at the trial when this comes up during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e893	I must almost use this opportunity to make a brief comment to the rapporteur, who insists on using the term 'the bourgeois majority'. I just want to say that insisting on dividing Norwegian policies into two blocks is the most conservative, almost the most reactionary I can imagine in today's political landscape. In particular, it is alarming that it comes from a representative of a minority government party. That's it -- I don't have to ask the Minister of Culture about that. My question to the Minister of Culture also goes on with a separate post on the State budget. State councils have just commented on this following a question from Greece. I want to make sure that the Council of State does not spend much time assessing whether to maintain or return to a new budget line on the State budget. This is a party political mark from the Workers' Party in the Chamber on which there is no point in spending time. The Council of State said that annual budgets, statements, Question Time, open Question Time and a notification at each period provide more than enough opportunity to come back and have an informed, positive and good debate on Norwegian sport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e900	As I have already said, the background to the work on the Single European Act has been closely linked to the need to clarify Storting's ability to discuss sporting policy issues. I would like to repeat what I have already said: I have a clear ambition to contribute to the good of the debate in this Chamber, and that the sporting issues receive the attention that they absolutely deserve. There is no doubt that sport has significant challenges in the time to come. I feel very sure that there will be increased interest and many opportunities for debate on this in this Chamber. When it comes to the question of a separate item, I think this is something that will be essential in order to get the debate more eaten – it often turns out that the economy contributes to a higher temperature in the debate on the issues, and it has been said that you might not expect the high temperature here today, because there is such a broad consensus on these issues. We'll evaluate this continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e909	As the Council of State understands, SV – and I – are concerned with the value of sport. One of the values that we hope to get more impact in Norwegian society is equality. Jorid Hovden has just issued a doctoral thesis on equality and sport. She proves there that only 7 pst. Women are the leaders of sport, and she says that there are power structures and organisational features in the sport policy system that cause it. There is more market thinking and more top-notch sport, which promotes men and hinders women's ability to achieve. Much of it, she says, is due to the commercialization of sport. My question is, how will the Council of State challenge the sport of addressing the gender debate? My second question concerns the commercialisation of sport. As the Council of State has probably seen of the setting, SV has a comment on the increasing symbiosis between sport, media and business. In the hearing, I challenged the Council of State. She then said that she was busy doing everything she could to prevent a development in which advertising-funded media take over the management of the sport. As she has probably also seen, SV has a proposal to ask the Government to investigate measures aimed at preventing advertising funded media companies from steering sport through ownership. How does the Council of State address this proposal? So a third question: sport for everyone is a value in itself. Last year the evening post had a notice that homophiles feel bullied out of the sport. I realized that the crane was called in on the carpet by Horn. Since then, the sports debate has stopped. I would like a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e920	SV's representative Ågot Valle had many questions to the Council of State. I can assure you that the value of the sport also burns the Workers' Party and the Government, and I think most of the people in this room are very concerned about this side of the sport. Let me first say something about women's rights. We see today how excellent our girls are in many different contexts on the sports track – in handball, in football and in skiing. In Lahti lately, not least Bente Skari has made a powerful impression on the whole world. This is a result of work that has been prioritised in the Norwegian Sports Association and the second of the Ministry of Culture, whether I can use such an expression in this room. The women project of the Olympic Summit ended in the autumn of 2000, and the Ministry of Culture has supported this financially. The project shall be continued in the ordinary structures of the Norwegian Sports Association. When this is not so stressed in the message that we have addressed recently, it comes from getting a bit on the way. But in no way should you lose control of it. I want to follow this very closely and ensure that women and women's interests are also taken care of, both in terms of priority, economics – yes at all. You have a number of challenges, eating disorders, etc. The representative also asked about this with the impact of media companies on Norwegian sport. I am of the opinion that this is not a matter for the authorities, as it is rather a media-ethical issue, which should primarily be governed by the media itself. There was little time to answer the last questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e931	I do not take the floor because I disagree with any of the things the Council of State has said. On the contrary, we – and two governments – have been united about and behind this message. What I want to record is a page that is a little bit in the extension of what the message concerns. The Council of State was concerned that the construction coverage in the field of sport is too poor. As we know, there is a need for extensive maintenance, there is a need for many more community facilities, more bets in big cities, etc. –I could just keep raming up. I want to challenge the Council of State to think a little bit about the future financing of the various challenges in this field. We can also include one more field: the Progress Party has put forward a proposal in the vote in which they propose changing the law on gambling so that profits are shared between sport and culture. We also know that there are also major challenges in the field of cultural protection. There is therefore a need for increased resources for both of these fields in the future. My question is: has the Council of State considered this and, if necessary, other proposals to address the major challenges I have outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e942	The challenges on the construction side are significant – I had just said – all over the country, but there is no reason to suggest that we are particularly concerned about the facilities in the big cities. I note that there has been a proposal from the Progress Party on changing the key. It will of course be assessed, and many have also considered it earlier. I have repeatedly stressed the positive impact of sport on society. However, I consider today's level of profits for sporting purposes to be satisfactory. Such a proposal as that of the Progress Party would have to be seen in the context of the totality of the State budget. The proposal also proposes to remove the funds from research, which is a significant and important area of activity for the Government. After all, there is no solution to the dimension from which these means of research are to be drawn. I have therefore not been able to follow the Progress Party. We are very concerned that the distribution criteria remain as they are now proposed in the communication. I will constantly assess how best to ensure that facilities are maintained throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e953	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e957	Is sports healthy? Although the official sports Norway invests considerable resources to combat doping, organisations are constantly looking for advantages, new ways to improve performance – methods that are not on the ban list but that provide the methodology users with an advantage compared to other practitioners. It is a problem when the use of altimeters becomes relevant for ambitious children or their parents. It is a problem when children develop eating disorders in an effort to meet the demands of trainers, and when the requirement for performance becomes so high, also for children and young people who have not yet developed, that the joy of sports for many is being replaced by stress and anxiety not to meet expectations. These are ethical dilemmas that sport itself has addressed and that it is working to raise awareness of trainers down the system. For sport must be healthy. Sport shall provide joy, good social relations, enhance strength and body control and challenge individuals to set their own boundaries within the natural limits of the individual. Children and young people are highlighted as the main target groups for state sport policy, and in this context it is important to further develop the positive work done in the field of child sport. In this respect, the Committee stressed that specialisation and competitive pressure should not predominate in this work. Versatileness and participation must be given priority in relation to the state resources used for child rights. Based on the briefing given in the Stortingen open hearing, it is our impression that the sport itself has addressed the issues and that it is working on schooling down the system in this area. For those working with children and young people, health, well-being and healthy social relationships must be more important than records and individual performances. It must be an objective of state sport policy to contribute to the achievement of good growth conditions and clear health and environmental policy objectives in all its different forms. While our top athletes are under more or less continuous control and follow-up by a competent health team, those who do not reach the top completely, but who have great ambitions, can easily get far on the way out before something is discovered to be wrong. And it's like here, in the middle of top-to-mass sport, that the problems occur. Increased focus on anti-doping work can help reduce the problems, and the Right is pleased that Norway is at the forefront of these issues. But we must not get so blue-eyed as to the Norwegian reality that we condemn doping-hidden foreigners and expound our own doping-hidden sportsmen. Doping is unacceptable no matter who the performer is. Sport shall promote fair play at all levels. Sport is international. On the sports track, people from different cultures have always met. Now that we've gradually been given insights from many cultures in our own population, it's important that these are integrated into our local teams at all levels. Because child and youth sport is essential for environmental development at local level, and because immigrants and refugees often do not have the same tradition as we do by parents parenting around sports organisations, it is important that funds are allocated to the positive integration work of many sports associations. In this context, I would like to point out the Vard project in Haugesund and the positive work on the good results for which they are well-known. It is important that sports teams carrying out such targeted integration work are guaranteed the increased operating grants needed beyond a project period. When the project phase is over, these layers must receive the necessary grants to be able to transfer the project into a permanent form of operation. Not least in our largest cities, various forms of sport through conscious integration can contribute to the reduction of the contradictions and skepticism between children and young people with different ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Not all children and young people are members of a sports team, and very many fall from early childhood. But public sports policy must aim at finding its arenas for physical development. It is important that informal activities in multi-purpose halls, skateboard courses, football courses, in so-called hundred-meter forests are provided in local settings. This is the only way to achieve the goal of sport for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e980	St.meld. No 14 for 1999-2000, Sports life changing, is an important message that highlights the many roles of sport in Norwegian society, ranging from sport as an important social factor in the community to sport as an important part of health prevention. For the Workers' Party, it is therefore important to highlight the broad and important function of sport in our society. Within this broad spectrum that I mentioned, we in the Workers' Party have chosen to focus extra strongly on children, young people and the community. We do this because we believe that these groups are the weakest, even when the funds of sport are to be distributed. At the same time, we are aware of the role that sport plays, especially among children and young people, because we are aware that many of the ideals that children today are reaching out to will not be achievable for most of them. This is why many young people are perceived to fall away. This is due to their own expectations, but not least to the external expectations of managers and parents. For us in the Workers' Party, it is therefore important to attach a grip on the values represented by the parallel sport, and to focus on those aspects of sport that are not just dominated by heroes and doping. In addition to what I have just said, I want to focus on the important role of sport in the fight to create common arenas for everyone. Persons with an ethnic minority background in Norway are active in Norwegian society, including sport. We know about the projects of the Norwegian Sports Association in our big cities, where the value of sport is made visible as a common arena in our multicultural society. Unfortunately, over recent events, we have seen that racism in Norwegian society has come to the surface. This shows that not only can we combat such attitudes with words but we also need actions that can be preventive and combative. I believe that the inclusion processes of the two football clubs Vard in Haugesund and Vålerenga in Oslo are two good examples of such measures, where they work according to targeted plans and have achieved very positive results in the fight against racism. I am very pleased that the Committee clarifies in a comment on the Communication that sport should not only facilitate the participation and integration of our new countrymen in traditional sports. It is also made clear that it is important to value the sport culture and the sports that our new countrymen bring with them. Furthermore, the Committee stresses the need for an emphasis on ensuring these sports facilities and activation facilities. In Oslo and other big cities we know that cricket and land hockey have come to stay, but we still lack lanes and relevant facilities. The Labour Party believes it is important to support the diverse and voluntary work done in sport. There are many firesmen who work for free every night to support the voluntary work of children and young people. That's why it's very unfortunate what we've been told through the media, that Oslo Municipality prioritised adults rather than children when they reopened a sports hall after a water damage. By doing so, I do not believe that we should pay attention to adult rights, but I believe that it is not acceptable for the eligible members of a company to be preferred to children. As an example of this, I will allow myself to use my own municipality of origin, Oslo. Perhaps the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein doesn't like it, but it's a fact that the bourgeois majority in Oslo City Council, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, ordered the open-air seat to take in 4 million. 2001 kr. This means that you have to throw out those who can't pay 400 kroner per person. hour for rent of the hall. Of course, such a policy is not to bet on children and young people — on the contrary. At the end of the day: I am very pleased that the sports report states that the big city project and the big city project will continue. The major-city project is a targeted and solidarity effort against weak groups in society, so that the joys of sport can be enjoyed by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e999	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1002	In my article I want to focus on sports for children, young people and disabled people and the integration of immigrants. It's the local sports teams that are the base, and that's where you have knowledge of the local environment. It's where someone knows children and young people's needs and wants, among other things. the integration of disabled people into sport and the inclusion of immigrants. More than 500,000 children and young people are currently active in local sports in an incredible variety of activities, while many of us are concerned that children and young people spend too much time — sitting still — in front of a PC or TV. It is therefore important to facilitate child rights in a way that helps children to thrive and want to participate. The sport shall provide security and well-being. The goal must not be to get the best in a special sport, but to enjoy sports – all kinds of sports. Specialisation should come much later. For children, playing and enjoying sports should be the most important thing. For the state, it is a particular responsibility that sport be organised in such a way that disabled people — physically and mentally — are also given the opportunity to participate. In this context, the aim of sport should be to involve everyone – no one should sit on the bench. The state grants additional funds every year to enable disabled people to engage in sport, because we have a special responsibility for vulnerable groups. Persons with disabilities do not have a statutory right to organise offers, but they should certainly have an opportunity to engage in sports in their community by means of support contacts, active helpers and accompanying staff. Another group that should definitely be better integrated into sport is the immigrant children, and especially the girls. With the introduction of cash support, fewer and fewer immigrant children go to kindergarten, and integration should start early, all political parties agree. Unfortunately, there are too few immigrant children to see in the local sports laws, the corps and other organisations for children. It is a challenge that the Norwegian Sports Federation has not fully addressed. Here's a lot of work done, especially in relation to the girls in the immigrant communities. I think most children and young people experience that participating in sports activities is fun – they meet other young people in social relations and have mostly positive experiences. Here they learn rules about fair play and standards of honesty. It is important that we do not maximise crisis in relation to the alleged inactivity of children in physical activity and sport. There are, after all, very many who are active and participate in local sports. The voluntary free work of parents, managers and trainers in sport cannot be overestimated and must be ensured in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1019	As I said earlier, there may not be so much new in the message, it's kind of just a reinforcement and a continuation of the common interest of strengthening sport. The new proposal is that of the Progress Party, which has subsequently received a few comments from some in the course of the debate. I am pleased to note that the rapporteur from the Workers' Party signals a positive view – at least at a later stage if possible – of whether we should split the profits into two and distribute it with half to sport and half to culture or voluntary teams and organisations. Therefore, the joy goes away a little when the Council of State later comes up and says that she is very pleased with the situation that is, and that she wants to continue the third. I had hoped that the State Council of the Workers' Party would follow the signals that came from the Wraith representative of the Workers' Party. I must also be allowed to say that we in the Progress Party are being very critical of our cultural policy and our commitment in this regard. So here we are promoting a proposal that will in the long term secure 400 million. kr more – if we go back and look at the profits from 2000 – to voluntary teams and organisations in 2006 and 400 million. kr more for sport in 2006. I would also like to make a statement on what the Minister of Culture is trying to do in his speech: the Party of Advancement states in its observations that this should not in any way be at the expense of the research funds. We say, on the other hand, that it is important to strengthen the research section, but that it should be taken over by the ordinary state budget. In that context, I also find it interesting to see what has happened to the profit of typing. It's the state that's moving and increasing its involvement with games. The state has taken over and moved into the market of voluntary teams and organisations, so that today it is more difficult to stand and sell lots of small sports, because most people have spent the money they want to spend on games and lotteries, on the state games. That is why I strongly believe that the Storting and the State should show their responsibility by transferring the funds for which people are gambling – to that effect – to what they are intended to do, namely sports and voluntary teams and organisations. We separate layers in terms of taxpayers' money, which the case-rapporteur had in mind in his statement. Here it is the means of the old people. Here's the money that most people tap and play, that's already been taxed. So to call this state's means that the Stortinge distributes around, becomes a little wrong to me in a way, because this is the means of sport and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1034	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2092]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1048	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1059	The case of the use of experts in child distribution matters and, in that context, the establishment of a public body to review them is promoted by representatives of the Progress Party. The lot proposes to set up another public body to review all aspects of the use of experts in such cases. In the opinion of the proposers, it has developed an unfortunate practice in this area, without any evidence of this. In the distribution of care rights, the child’s best interests are to be focused. It is only in cases where the parents do not agree on the sharing of care for the children that the court shall decide where the children are to live. The proposers claim that they have seen many examples of the way in which the use of experts in such cases works against their purpose and can be directly harmful to both children and parents. I lack evidence of such serious claims. Children’s issues can be very uplifting, both for parents and children, and it is therefore very important that the experts, who are to advise judges and others involved, have a high degree of integrity and can act with great credibility. There are already two public investigations assessing the use of experts in child distribution cases. Several of the questions asked by the proposers have already been addressed. This work has already been followed up by the development of detailed guidance for experts in child distribution matters. At the same time, the guide provides information for courts, state officials, district councillors, etc. In addition, a two-year training programme was launched in the autumn of 1998. In November 1998, several proposals were made, including: with regard to the use of experts. The study has been consulted and the Ministry assesses the follow-up to the proposals. Project funding has also been allocated to a study on family matters promoted by the courts and the use of experts in this context. Both the previous and this government have worked on this issue. Work has been and is a priority. On this basis, the majority of the Committee cannot see the need to set up another public body to review the use of experts in such cases. The majority of the Committee therefore recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1085	This will be a short article. The proposal for the establishment of a public selection to go through all aspects of the use of experts in child distribution matters is not getting any more today. There are two public distributions that have assessed the use of experts in child distribution matters and address several of the issues that proposers from the Progress Party would like to address. A guide has been developed for experts in child distribution matters. A two-year training project in expert work was started in the autumn of 1998. In NOW 1998: 17, Children’s Dissemination Cases — Decision-making bodies, rules of procedure and divided residence — the selection has made several proposals for changes to the rules of procedure, which, for example, allow experts to be involved in the preparation of proceedings. The selection points out that the traditional use of experts, often in the form of extensive expert reports, is not always necessary for the outcome, and can impose both parties and the unnecessary public expenditure. In addition, it was pointed out that such use of experts often leads to considerably longer case-handling time. The selection suggests that it be opened for a different and more varied use of experts. Due to the special nature of the child distribution issues, it is important that the rules of procedure are flexible and flexible. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to make changes in the handling of cases before the Court of Justice. The use of experts should be limited to those cases where there is a particular relationship with parents or with the child. At the same time, a flexible use of experts must provide a reasonable use of experts, and access to experts must be ensured, so that this is not a delaying element in the process. But we don't need any new and comprehensive information about this. I refer to the setting, for which the case manager did fine, and to the work already done in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1098	I record that the two previous speakers refer to what has been done in relation to experts, and in particular to what they call two-year training. The two-year follow-up training is a collaboration between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, which started this training programme for experts in the autumn of 1998. There are six course days in the year, divided into three days in the spring and three days in the autumn. It is the measure aimed at correcting the lack of knowledge and competence in the area of experts and child sharing. And that's another thing: there's still no requirement for education in expertise to deal with such matters. Furthermore, the judges may decide freely who shall be experts in child-sharing matters. For me, it is a little strange that in such a serious area we should not have any quality assurance of the job that experts do in relation to child distribution matters. In connection with this proposal, it was also said that there is insufficient research and lack of scientific literature on what is claimed in the document. However, what has to be available is based on traditional perceptions that in many child distribution cases, the aim is to have one place to live and that one parent should have decisive authority. And that's where the basic problem lies. I have recently recorded that statements by the experts' profession, psychologists, have been a significant feature of the press and the media. The message from these has not been amended from previous opinions. Already in 1992, psychologist Odd Arne Tjersland said in the book ‘Crimination and Parenthood’: ‘According to the Children’s Act, the child shall have one care person after a break in life’.» There are still practices from the psychologists or experts. This ‘one-parent syndrome’ kneels mostly on Norwegian child professionals. The Progress Party is being accused of thinking about 1950s policy in more and more contexts of family policy, but today's fear of father participation in the care of his own children goes beyond that. It may also seem that the one-parent theory since the 1952 WHO report by John Bowlby, which pointed out the harmful effects on children as a result of separation from mother because of the war 1940-45, but which at the time did not evaluate the relationship with father at all, has only been further developed. However, recent research also points to the adverse effects on children due to the absence of father. Here I just want to refer to the bibliography contained in Document 8:44, which we are going to consider later today. It is strange to me that the Norwegian expert community is the only one that has not registered this kind of research. There is also Norwegian literature that promotes critical comments. Here is the 1988 'Best for the child' book, which was not at all included in the assessment when the representative, Moland, referred to the two studies that have been carried out. This was a pilot study of psychologists as experts in child distribution matters, a book that for some reason was omitted from the literature list of NOU 1995:23 on paediatric expertise. In an article entitled «Skillers in Child Distribution Matters – Russian Rolled or Coins and Crowns?» in Law and Law, 1994, lawyer Ruth Anker Høyer writes, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Sometimes you can get a feeling that the expert is forming his or her conclusion from a ‘feeling stomach’, and then formulating the premises.’ This psychological vision has been considered a professional disaster in the book «House of Cards» [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1132	The President assumes that Mr Sandberg's representative should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1135	I'm sorry, sir. President! I am promoting the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1140	The representative Sandberg has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1143	There is no simple recipe, no fair solution, no fair law that can regulate interpersonal relationships. When a child distribution case ends up in court, the conflict between parents is a fact. Both parties will consider themselves the best fit to care for the child daily, and both parties' lawyers will work for their own client. The best of the child often comes into the background. The best of the child is used as a weapon by both parties, and both parties must justify why it is best for the child to be with one. Then it must necessarily be because the other one is less suitable, for some reason, from the subjective point of view. So how can the court make a decision without listening to an expert who is initially neutral? If one is clearly better fit than the other, it will initially be neutral experts on the basis of its own assessments of the child, the contentious parties and other important factors such as social networks, the child’s association, etc. have an opinion on who should have the day-to-day care before the parties meet in court, and the person who is not recommended as a day-to-day care provider will therefore experience the expert’s opinion as incalculable, not neutral. Where is the best of the child in these matters? We all too often see that the best of the child is set aside for those who should be their closest caregivers. The child is made good in relation to the parents' draw fight. But children are not a common good that can be equated. Children need security, even in relation to their parents’ conflicts. These include: this shall be assessed by a neutral expert: who is best placed to provide the child with safety in everyday life, and how does the parent’s way of dealing with the conflict of life affect the child’s safety and development? In very many of the cases brought before the court, one parent is related to crime, intoxication, or is demonstrably violent. In such cases, matters should be clear, children must be protected from this kind of influence. Nevertheless, one will always have cases where parents are equivalent and where a decision can be very difficult. The losing party will then irrefutablely feel the final decision to be unfair, and it may well be that it is, too, but the loss of neutral experts as advisers to the court would hardly lead to fewer so-called unfair decisions. And how can you find a fair arrangement if your parents are equivalent, equally suitable with your child, but thus unable to make a decision that all parties can live with? However, it is important that experts on child distribution issues are provided with the possibility of necessary professional updates. In a rapidly changing society, external issues will also change, with the impact this has on the relationships between children and parents. Furthermore, it is important that experts maintain their neutral skills and do not specialize in favoring their mother or father. The expert shall be expert in relation to the child. Special problems arise where experts are used in relations where the public takes over the care of a child. It is important here that the expert does not act as part of child protection without asking questions about the assessments of the case handlers. In the area of high ‘turnover’ child protection and many very inexperienced case handlers, it is precisely important to have an expert who is neutral in relation to the child’s best interests to be cared for. As referred to in the case, two samples have already assessed the role of experts in child distribution matters, and measures have been put in place to increase the competence of those involved in such conflict-affected and difficult tasks. It has no intention of setting up another sample; it is more important that the recommendations already made and the measures taken to improve their competence continue. If the use of experts in child distribution matters has been harmful to children or parents, I will not have any opinion about it. But I am not in doubt that the conflict situation that brings such issues into the judiciary seems harmful to all those affected, both parents and children. Some will never get over such a loss of family. However, it is not possible to prevent this by legislative decisions. Interpersonal emotional relationships are not legally binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1165	Representatives Sandberg, Bredvold and Jensen have proposed setting up a public body to review the use of experts in child distribution matters. The use of experts in these cases has been a topic of two public investigations since the mid-1990s. I therefore doubt that there will be a need to reduce a new sample as soon as possible. Initially, I would like to stress that there is a great need for parents in conflict situations involving children to be helped to solve their problems. It is important for children to have a close and good relationship with both parents, regardless of whether they live together or not, and it is in my opinion a social task to facilitate this. The mediation system has now worked for some years, it has been evaluated, and it is time to consider how it can be further developed and better adapted, especially to the parents in a major conflict. Many parents experience conflicts in a lifelong breakup. Most people still work together on the children as time goes on. However, some parents have major and persistent conflicts that they cannot resolve themselves. When parents have to bring their dispute to the court for a solution, this may lead to an increase in the conflict. And big conflict between the parents will, as the representative Stolt-Nielsen was in the house, affect the children. I believe it is important to facilitate the situation so that parents are offered help to come up with their own solutions without having to go through a legal process that exacerbates the conflict. Parents who wish to promote a child-sharing case before the court are obliged to attend mediation. The broker shall be a neutral third party to assist parents in reaching an agreement. In addition, today’s legislation provides for the flexible use of experts in the trial process. Follo Sorenschrifterbete has for several years systematically collaborated with two psychologists to provide parents with help for cooperation, testing contracts, etc. This project can show very good results. And Oslo Byrett has now started a similar experiment. The research institute NOVA has recently published the report ‘When Mother and Father meet in court — on child distribution and association’, which reviews a year of children’s distribution cases from Oslo Byrett. Perhaps the most alarming thing about this report is that in the cases that came to the main hearing in the courts, a large proportion of the families had relatively large problems that did not necessarily have to do with the breakup of life. In seven out of ten cases, one or both of the parents had for a long time been in contact with the psychiatric auxiliaries, the police, the child protection services, or had relatively extensive drug problems. Many suggest that the conflicts between parents were not only the result of the breakup of life itself, but in many cases had to be seen in connection with different pressures and problems that one or both parents had had over a long time and relatively independent of the breakup. When we talk about these kinds of things, it's important to remember that in many cases it's not that both parents appear to be as good care options, and that there's consideration of the child's best that always has to weigh more heavily. The study carried out by NOVA shows that the Court wishes the advice and conclusions of the experts. Nevertheless, the expert opinion is often used to direct the parties towards settlement. The review of experts’ statements on justice showed that most work was relatively similar, but some clearly differed in a negative direction. Experts are often appointed on the initiative of one of the parties. Such a wish need not necessarily be motivated by a desire for the court to have a professional adviser, but may be based on a belief that the expert, provided that the ‘real’ is appointed, will support the view of the one party. Consequently, the choice of expert to be appointed may in itself become a conflict issue between the parties. If there is an objective for the parties to a settlement, it is important that the parties to the expert’s statement appear to be as good. However, researchers point out that if the expert submits a conflict-reducing report without recommendations, there may be serious consequences for the child if harmful conditions are not adequately weighted. With regard to the review of the work of experts in child distribution matters, I cannot see [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1186	Now it's like in our party we're very happy with all the positive signals that had to come. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State has registered that we have invested some resources to focus on this topic. But I was still a little disappointed, because the Council of State is also trying to refer to the investigations that have been carried out. It is then important to point out, particularly in the case of NOU 1995:23, that two samples were set up. So those samples consisted of psychologists and psychiatrists. There was no critical assessment of psychologists and psychiatrists in those samples. I now register that the Council of State will follow closely in these matters. However, I would like to challenge the Council of State in particular in relation to quality assurance, whether she cannot look at the possibility of establishing some kind of quality assurance of the job that experts are supposed to do, because there is something all about in all other contexts where children are inside the picture. I'm not least thinking about child protection, institutions, etc. A total increase has now focused a lot on quality assurance. Then my question is whether the Council of State also wants to focus specifically on it to see if we can establish some kind of quality assurance of the job done by the experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1197	I think I can answer briefly by saying that the challenge of Per Sandberg's representative I want to take, and of course I want to look at the possibility of adding up that we're going to have a good quality on this guide. However, when it comes to the question of a separate public sample, as far as I can see, the documentation I have received from my office does not mean that there is a need for a public sample. In terms of quality assurance, I can now say that we want to look at the possibility of following it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1204	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1222	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1231	This Document No The 8-proposal has been under discussion in Stortinget for a long time, yet I'm going to do this quite briefly. When it has been so long, it is due to a history that has caused a long-awaited proposal – through several governments – not to come. We had initially wanted to deal with these together, so the proposal has remained in place. Now we have a government council and a government that has got its finger out, and that dares to take a stand. The majority will then await the proposal to be made by the Government. At the same time, the majority states that it must be an objective to allocate duties and responsibilities better between parents after a break in life and to develop a contribution system that ensures good contact between children and both parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1240	I would like to say, as the spokesman for the case, that this is a matter to which we will come back. When the central government put in power, we were doing a great deal of new contributions. This is a matter that has gone through several governments, and because of the government change, it has been further time before Stortinget has got it. We from the Christian People's Party have always said that it is important that we get up-to-date and renewed rules of contributions that take more care of both the income of mother and father, and of association, how much time one spends with the children. There must be a more reasonable distribution than with the current rules. They're not good enough, they're old-fashioned, and in some cases they're more involved in increasing the level of conflict than in subduing it. Having good and right rules is actually very important. Now we've realized that the labor party government will soon come to the Storting with this, and then we'll get a proper, thorough and complete review of this. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1251	Let me first say that I had hoped that this would be a big and long debate, which ended in a joyous day for many contributors and many children. But, as has also been said by the two previous speakers, because of the insidiousness of many governments, the Bondevik government, today's Labour Party government and the previous Labour Party government, it's been ten years before we got the problem on the agenda at all. Regardless of whether a user argues that it is because there has been a change of government that this case has not been dealt with – a bad excuse – I would like to remind you that those who have spoken to now, and the parties they represent, voted down proposals for new rules on contributions in 1996. I personally wanted us to have a system with the best solution in relation to the contribution question, where we had avoided interference from the public, and that the parents took the responsibility of ensuring agreement both in the care and in the economics of having a common child. At that time, a public bureaucratic mill had been lost, and it had been avoided that the state has revenues as a result of a breakup and divorce where children become part of the economic game. But when you look at the relationship between today's child law and child distribution, it's not so hard to see that children become a piece of an economic play in distribution matters. I would have liked this document to receive the thorough treatment it had deserved, along with the Progress Party's Document No. 8:44 for 1998-99 on the amendment of the Children's Act. There are clear contexts here: Without the amendment of the Children’s Act, new rules on contributions, whatever their content, will lead to continued economic struggle for the children, thus continuing cohabitation and the sole principle of caring. But I'm not supposed to be so pessimistic today. Despite the fact that the proposals of the Progress Party seem to suffer defeat today, it seems that our fight for a fair contribution scheme will take place in a short time. In any case, the Council of State has now signalled, both orally and in the form of letters, that the Government will present its proposal early in March. Then the Progress Party will continue the fight when it comes to the Stortinget. I would also like to say: this is a matter that absolutely should not be used as an example for follow-up. As much training as it's been here, through several governments in almost ten years, there's no husband to. I'm not going to get into the many fates that lie in the wake of this training, but the same political majority that is probably also voting this proposal today is responsible for many children losing years of association with one parent, largely father. Saying it's not taking too hard in. The fact that one in addition has several contributors who pay contributions for the children of others should also be mentioned. That's been the situation for over ten years. One thing is that one should be responsible for providing and contributing financially to one's own children, but that one should also be required to pay contributions for other people's children through current legislation, the Stortinget should have been aware of this, and it should have contributed to a much faster handling of the case. I believe, without being too excited, that the proposal under consideration is a very good proposal, which forms the basis for a fair contribution system. I fear that the Government's proposal will be partly coloured by the government and the government agency, and therefore still be complicated and bureaucratic. In the last few days, I have tried to get a certain overview of how other countries do it in the context of contributions. It has been a bit difficult, the scheme is perhaps just as bureaucratic there, but in Sweden they have introduced new contributions rules from January this year that in a way, at least in economic terms, show that the amounts we operate with in Norway today in relation to contributions maintenance are far more than what is necessary between two responsible parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1272	I shall be very brief, just saying that if the Committee today does not agree with the proposal of the Progress Party, that does not mean that the Committee totally rejects the issue, and that has been the case with Sandberg himself. Now we have been waiting a long time for the review of the contribution scheme that several governments have announced, and the fact that several governments have notified this without submitting it may indicate that the matter is actually quite difficult. I have a hope that you will get a so-called fairer contribution scheme, but I don't think we will get a contribution scheme that will make everyone happy. There will be some people who are dissatisfied, and that means that this will not be an easy matter to get through in Stortinget either. And I hope that the Minister for Children and Family now, through the work that has been done, has created a good starting point so that we can get a change in the contribution scheme that makes maybe some people get a little dissatisfied and some get a little satisfied. But to think that one will get some clear winners and losers in such a case, it will be difficult. But that there is a need to do something, I think everyone agrees. Therefore, I hope that we get this case as soon as it is notified, that we can handle it during the spring. And then we'll see if we get the input that's needed from the different parties, and that makes us able to get to a system that works better than today. And then I hope it's not going to be like Sandberg said, that the fight is going to go on. I hope there will be no particular struggle, but that there will be an agreement to get to a system that is the best possible, without one going from one edge to the other, but that one is trying to find something that can satisfy many.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1279	Before the Council of State gets the floor, the President will ask if Per Sandberg will take up his proposal. That's confirmed. Per Sandberg then mentioned the proposal included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1284	Within a very short period of time, the Government will promote for the Stortinget a proposal for a new contribution scheme which has just been allocated fairly among parents as one of the main objectives. The representative Sandberg said in his post that this matter has been characterized by insidiousness, but I think that's what Trond Helleland says, which is the correct thing. This is a very, very complicated case field that it has been demanding to go into. And what has been important to me is that we've started with blank sheets and tried to build a system where you've followed the intentions that the Storting repeatedly underlined in terms of a new contribution system. And I think also the representative Per Sandberg would have learned that it's not just inheriting a case from a previous government, one must go into this on its own basis, and that makes the process take time. I also believe that the representative Per Sandberg will experience when he sees presented, that this government is not so much colored by either the government or the government agency. We stick to the main principles that Stortinget has given its clear agreement to before, but there is no doubt that the matter is complicated, and that there will be an opportunity to look at concrete changes also in relation to what the Government will present. I cannot go into what will be our proposal today until it is formally transmitted to Stortinget. But I want to point out some of the main principles that I think are important in a good and timely contribution model. Firstly, there must be the child's need for means of support that must be essential for a new contribution scheme. At the same time, it will be as the representative Molvær Grimstad says, that according to financial capacity, the parents have to distribute the expenditure among themselves. The regulatory framework shall encourage continued care by both parents and facilitate private grant agreements. We know that today's life patterns make demands for a good contribution legislation different from the requirements it was reasonable to set back a few decades. I think it is fair that the legislation on contributions should ensure that the child is maintained by both parents and that both parents' income should be included in the calculation. Nevertheless, it is reasonable that those with high income contribute more than those with low income. The amount of the contribution shall be proportionate to the cost of having a child, so that the contribution will also increase by the age of the child. Attendance should be counted, so that those who are very much with the children will pay less in contributions to the other parents. This, I think, is a natural consequence of the fact that those who have a lot of children with them also spend a lot of money on direct child support. I cannot be more specific today, but as I said, we are going to present this matter to the Storting very soon. Finally, I would like to stress that this is not a reform that will mean that everyone will have to pay less in child contributions. Some will receive less in contributions, and others will have to pay more. This depends entirely on the specific circumstances of each family. However, the new scheme aims to establish the contribution in a more timely and fair manner, and that both parents are considered equivalent to the child, even if they do not live together. And I believe that this will be a successful reform in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1301	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1304	When I heard the inaugural to the Council of State now, it was almost like being at Rosenborg-kamp. I was very concerned at the beginning that Rosenborg was pressured onto the defensive. And I became very critical and skeptical of the introduction to the inauguration to the Council of State, where she stressed that the new rules of contributions that come up with proposals from the Government are to be based on decisions that the Storting has previously agreed to. If there is not too much to ask for, I would like to hear what decision it is Stortinget has taken in the past in relation to this matter, which the Council of State now wants to continue. Then I became even more sceptical when the Council of State said that the new rules on contributions should continue to encourage care from both parents. The point is that today’s rules of contribution encourage the opposite. Is it possible for the Council of State to say something more about what the Stortinget has done in the past that she wants to continue in relation to new rules on contributions? Then I have to say that I understand, of course, that this has been a demanding matter. The fact that the Council of State emphasises that she has inherited the matter from the Bondevik administration may not be so important, because it has been the government before the Bondevik government that has in a way also made templates and proposals for new rules on contributions. But, as I said in my main post, it is actually so that the proposal that is now on the table is almost equivalent to a proposal promoted by the Progress Party in 1996, and it was voted down that time. But if the Council of State could elaborate a little more on what it is Stortinget has done in the past that she wants to continue, then I think I can say that the rest of the contributions to the Council of State for me was at least very reassuring, and I really look forward to the new rules of contributions being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1315	I hope that I too can reassure the representative of Per Sandberg in the future. But it is actually the case that the Storting in different contexts, without any specific decisions being taken, has made it quite clear, through comments in votes, that you want a new contribution code, and you want to have the basic principle that both parents' incomes must be counted; you think that today's system is outdated, and you want a new regulation that is adapted to the time we live in. We know that today's law is 20 years old, and that we have a completely different situation than the one that was for some years ago. Today, Father is something more than just one who pays contributions, he is also a caregiver to his children after a breakup. We've taken it seriously. I hope that what we put forward will provide a good basis for a majority in the Biggest. But I'm not hiding that this is very complicated, it's been difficult, we've been working intensively on this matter from day one in the Government, and we'll finally see what the Storting ends up adopting. But at least I believe that the model we set up will support the intentions contained in the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1323	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked to speak on the matter either, and then it seems that case No. 9 has so far been brought to an end in peace and deportability. Then we'll see if it'll continue like this when the contributions proposals are on the table. [[Fotation, see page 2093]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1333	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1684	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3 from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to investigate the use of drugs in broad and top sport in the light of the objective of proper medical use and to prevent abuse and to present the matter to the Storting in an appropriate form.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate measures to prevent advertising funded media companies from directing sport through ownership and to bring the case before the Storting in an appropriate form.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1712	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the gambling law of 28 August 1992 No. Section 103 of Section 10 so that after fund redundancies are made, the profits of the company shall be distributed by one-half for sport, to the umbrella organisations of sports and one-half for cultural purposes, to voluntary teams and to cultural organisations. The funds are distributed by the King. Of the company's profits, 3 pst. be allocated to a fund where funds are to be used for the organisation of major domestic international championships. The scheme shall be gradually introduced over 5 years from 1 January 2001.’ The President notes that the year in the last line will be 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1741	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a sample which, as a mandate, will have to review critically all aspects of the use of experts in child distribution matters, including making proposals for future organisation and assessing whether this scheme should fall completely. The committee must also consider whether mandatory training for experts should be introduced and make proposals on how it should be organised where appropriate.’;» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1765	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a new contribution scheme in accordance with Document No. 8:46 at the time of submission of the 2002 State budget, for implementation from 1 January 2002.’» [[1998 - 1999]] Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22.ana.ud409e1792	There is no record.
