ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e69	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Harald Espelund, Mette Korsrud and Ib Thomsen For the county of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve and Rita Tveiden For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol For the North Trondelag County: Karin Søraunet For Southern Tribute County: Ola Røtvej At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e144	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e155	It is a very good budget for which the government party is presenting today, and for which we will have a majority in the Stortinget. That's good, because we've got increased promises for more good purposes compared to existing years. We've got an increase of 460 million. kr to the highways, an increase of 330 million. NOK to the Railway Agency, and we increase the purchase of services from the NSB by 80 million. kr, something we think and believe should lead to better services and better regularity on the railway track. When I'm particularly happy, however, it's not the most because of the permissions. I believe that the budget we are adopting today will stand out as a historical budget, because finally, the majority of people have to try to address some of the fundamental problems and the fundamental issues of Norwegian transport policy. We are faced with too much structural change, we are laying a foundation for providing users with even better services in the future. And it's the customers who are in the center. The destination is not the structure changes themselves. The aim is that those who use the transport services that Storting is providing should receive a significantly better supply over the coming years. The most important thing we do in this budget is the changes that happen with the state road system. I would like to give a great deal of praise to the Road Directorate for the offensive hold they have shown by addressing a number of issues when it comes to some structures that are over-ripe in order to find a solution. We grab hold of the administration department in Vegvesenet, and we try to reduce the administration with a clear goal: fewer are going to sit at the desks and more are going into practical road construction. What's being done here is a pretty big slimming down of the administration of the state road system. At the same time, however, there is an important decentralisation from the Directorate of Road to Regional Offices and to road offices in the different counties. The aim is to reduce the administration of the state road system from 5,000 to 4,000 people and, of course, to increase production, more road construction, better maintenance, and thus a better supply for us as users of these roads. We also grab hold of the manufacturing part of the Statens vägvesen. We are now proposing to convert this into a limited liability company. This has several advantages. First, this will result in more comparable relationships between the State Road Service as road builders and other contractors who, in line with the State, can be involved in building roads. It will also give the State Road Service more equivalent relationships to the private operators to go out and compete with. Getting equal conditions of competition and greater freedom to those who are going to provide road services is one of the main objectives of the change we are now putting forward. We are also in favour of other important structural measures. We started processes in which both the NSB and the Post, which are now a special law company, are to be converted into AS, and the Aviation Agency, which is today a management company, is also to be converted into a limited liability company. Some claim that this is a revolution; others claim that it means little. The truth is, this means a lot. But for the NSB and the Post, which is now a special law company, the changes will not be so big. In practice, the discussion of these changes over the last few days shows that there is a great deal of confusion between most people and the media about what a special-law society is about. We feel it's right to turn them into a limited liability company, which has quite clear rules, which is a well-known form of company, and which will be able to value the interests we have in a better way than what is happening today. Most importantly, it is to have the relationship between the state that buys services and the companies that will provide these services. Of course, the state will decide which airports we will have, how good postal services we will have, and the state will largely decide which route offer NSB will have. But the companies get a lot more freedom to organize the work. It's the end of the time that we run these companies through ownership. Today, service production is managed through concessions and through the purchase of services. And next year we'll buy from these three companies services for about 1,800 million. kr. We want to buy services in the future too, but it's not sure it's just going to be from these companies. Among other things, I have noticed that just after the Transport Committee gave its decision, competing companies were already out there and signaled that they could expect to take part of the passenger transport services that NSB has today. This is very happy. Many of us who are now on the Committee on Transport are new to the Committee. And without being surprised, we've found that there's a huge interest out there, both in the media and among a lot of actors, for the work we're doing there. We get a lot of visits, and we get a lot of lobbying against us. And this makes an impression. It makes sense to meet people facing deadly tribal paths. And it makes an impression when people stand up and fear for their airport. It makes an impression when parents meet us and tell us about the anxiety they have for a racially dangerous school path. It makes sense when business tells us about a road that is connected 21 days in a row because of race. It makes sense when municipalities and businesses in many places spit in tens of millions to get road projects that we don't have the power to provide enough resources from the state's side, but where they're willing to take a roof themselves. It also makes sense when we get letters from people who make quite clear opinions about other parts of the service that the state is responsible for. All of these things tell me one thing: we're forced to get a strong strengthening of a lot of areas in the transport sector. We need more resources for transportation, and it's in the Sem statement of the three parties that we're going to get it. But at the same time, it's absolutely necessary that we think about something new, that we're able to put our customers even more in focus, and that we're able to meet some resistance to a change. We all feel safest in the time we know best, and that's the past. But that doesn't mean we can keep living there. We have to change, we have to meet the new requirements that the inhabitants set for us. This budget is a major step towards laying the foundation for a whole new transport policy where customers come first and foremost to their needs. There's a lot of areas we could have gotten into, and we're going to get into most of it during the day. But I feel that these structural changes are at the best for customers, the most important of all, from the three government parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e188	I had decided to listen carefully to the committee leader now to try to get hold of the logic of this that a limited company should provide better services for people, get hold of what it is that is going to happen in concrete terms. A new foundation, says the committee leader, and a greater freedom. Yes, freedom to what, and at the expense of who? What kind of freedom can there be, if there should be no freedom to e.g. putting aside provisions in the expensive districts? We've seen what freedom is used for these days in the NRK, such as. The party of the conflict will not party to it and will not party to it. Is this the kind of freedom that we are about to have in the transport sector? Then I have to say that I'm probably the most concerned about the Aviation Agency. I have a lot of problems seeing how a limited liability company that is able to give freedom and more competition without going beyond small airports in this country. And I have a party trap by the representative Løvik with me in a great deal of concern for this, that is, the director of Erlend Rian. He says it very strongly in the Nordic post one of the days: ‘This will lead to horror and disaster for the districts.’ And... ‘We want freedom in most cases, but not the structure of our aerodromes.’ Further: ‘The organisational form of the Aviation Agency is an important matter with serious consequences. Anything too important to play with.’ And it says: ‘What is happening now is wrong,’ says Erlend Rian. Drive the number of committees and play a little bit with exciting ideas without thinking about who this is going through? And do they have no respect for the fact that it will happen in a way that those who are involved feel well about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e215	The representative Ausdal Starrfelt was looking for the logic. And the logic is very, very simple: we're now separating ourselves as big, which is going to determine what kind of postal services we're going to have, what kind of airports we're going to have at what level, what kind of offers we're going to have on the roads, and the organizations that are going to deliver this to us. The Aviation Agency is already undertaking a process of conversion in which they have concluded with state enterprises, which are quite close to the public limited liability company. If the Aviation Agency becomes a limited liability company, it will give them greater freedom to organise its business. But that doesn't mean, of course, that the Stortinget takes control of both the airports we're going to have and the quality that we're going to offer there. Governance does not take place today through ownership, but through concessions and the purchase of services. So the representative asks who will do this at the cost of, and what about they add to this matter? Of course, they will be included on advice. In the Swedish Aviation Agency and in the State Road Service, this is a process that has been going on for a very long time. For the Post and the NSB, we're now making a decision where we see the established principle, it's going to be AS. There is not a revolution over the night, but there is green light for a process where they will of course be taken on board. The size doesn't lose power at all, we get the opposite of greater power to make strict demands on those who are going to produce the services, as we get more distance from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e226	The need for investment in the road sector is enormous, both on E6 through Eastfold and Akershus and on E18 down South. We see fatal accidents, and we see the injuries and injuries of people who lead to personal tragedies, and unfortunately the Storting does not respond enough to them. In the Progress Party we have priority road. We've re-prioritized over $1 billion within the Ministry of Transport's budget. We have added NOK 1.3 billion, and in addition we have a foreign budget where we add NOK 1.5 billion. So there's a total of 4 billion kroner that we spend on establishing a good road network in this country. This would have given people in Eastfold a much better roadside offer, and it would have dramatically reduced the number of fatal accidents. The same applies to the E18 downwards of the South. Here too, you would have zeroed out many of the fatal accidents and the personal tragedies. We could start up Lofast in Lofoten, and we could improve all of the other highways that have an overwhelming need to be done with. Last year the right proposed approx. Extra 1 billion for the national transport plan. After what I can read up to, they are significantly behind this in this proposal. Now I am aware that we have negotiated a solution where we have come a bit on the way. But my question is, the Sem statement says that you should have an increase of 600 million. kr in relation to the proposals made by the Workers' Party in relation to the national transport plan. You're after this now. You want to come back and fulfill this, and put in the money you're already after, next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e237	Of course, the representative Svendsen is quite right in saying that the Right has made a strong commitment, and said that we should bet strongly, on the road. I was a little into the background for this in my article. We also stand firm at the high level of ambition that the three government parties presented in the Sem declaration, that during the period we will have an average of about approx. 600 million. kr extra on highways. It is also true that the Progress Party in its alternative budget has invested more heavily in the road, as they have done in a lot of other areas by pouring very many millions of dollars into the state budget – and not just millions, that is billions. But the back I think most of us are aware of: the win will easily go up in the spin. In today's Business on 27 November, which I am sure the representative Svendsen has read, it is quite clear from our leading economists that interest would have gone up if the Progress Party's proposal had gone through. We had not experienced the joy that many Norwegians felt yesterday when the rent went down, as we hoped and as we believed, on the basis of a strong budget. I can promise the representative Svendsen that the three government parties and the government will do everything they can to achieve this goal, so if someone will support us in the Storting within a defensive framework. I can't promise that this will happen next year, as the representative Svendsen asked for, but I can promise that we will be up-to-date in the spring of 2005 with this important arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e250	I noticed what the committee leader said had made an impression on him during the fall. The most striking thing about it was all that didn't impress the committee leader. What didn't impress the committee leader was the ones who wanted to take care of their nature, the ones who didn't want the road to go through an area of many endangered bird species. What had also not made an impression were those who wanted to take care of the wild rain trunk at Hardangervidda, and therefore did not want that road to be broken in winter. These had not made any impression on the committee leader. Nor did the parents have to keep their children in the days when the air pollution in our biggest cities is so great that it is dangerous for children with asthma to go out. Those who want to take care of their route have also not made any impression on the committee leader. And the commuters who are on the train on their way into Oslo have also not made any impression on the committee leader. The OECD tends to make an impression on the Right. A few days ago, the OECD presented a report with strong criticism of Norwegian environmental policy. The Minister of the Environment, Børge Brende, was out and told him to rehabilitate Norwegian environmental policy. The job done by the majority of the Committee on Transport in the autumn has been a further degradation of Norwegian environmental policy. I want to ask if the committee leader agrees with that, and then I want to ask if he can in the future imagine helping Børge Burnde to rehabilitate environmental policy. Then I hope that the groups who speak for the environment, too, can sometimes make an impression on the committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e260	When the commissioner mentioned some things that had made a strong impression in the fall, it was honestly meant. But I'm asking you to understand that with ten minutes of speaking time that list can't be completely complete. It is right that the representative Sørensen says that there are many other issues we should address. The natural and environmental aspects are important aspects. The error, which has been a discussion theme, we have taken care of. We want to keep up Rev 7 over Hardangervida, but we also said here we should assess whether this could have damage to the wild train. It also makes the impression that some train passengers do not have a good enough supply, as the representative Sørensen was in. That's why we're betting on a strong increase in the purchase of services from the NSB. We are investing in major investments in the Railway Agency to improve the track and offer through the services we are currently purchasing from the NSB on passenger transport. At the same time, it also has something to do with the environment, in a slightly different form, when we meet schoolboys who have to go on a rather narrow and poor and a lot of traffic, and when we, as I was inside my post, meet parents who sit with anxiety all day because the kids run a school bus on a road that one knows is exposed to a great race. These considerations are our duty to do. I think that one of the most important things we can do in the future is to bet more strongly on getting a better road standard, which will benefit the environment, because we would drop a lot of the traffic volume that we have today. As we said in the Sem Declaration, the government and government will also have a big stake in public transport. And of course we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e267	It's going to be a long day, so the president encourages all the representatives to stick to speaking time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e273	The committee leader produced as a new policy for a better Transport Norway, we fear in the Labour Party will be negative for the Norwegian people. We are in agreement with SV and the Center Party about comments related to this. The size of the changes includes: depending on the level of government or the size of the government is willing to control. The same plurality that is behind the changes has recently refused to control the NRK, which is another state limited liability company, on the issue of the closure of district offices. Such a attitude to the management of the transport sector suggests that companies should be more self-directed. Then we know that decisions are taken more on the basis of corporate economic considerations, and to a lesser extent on the basis of societal considerations. It's social, not business, that assures Granny of Røro's ability to send packages and letters at the same price as those who live in Oslo. It's social, not business, that makes it possible to have airports across the country, ferry services to the outer naked island and road in pig-grown areas. What do the Council of State say when she writes in the Evening Post that a limited liability company should provide «securers, better and more efficient transport services, at a reasonable price»? How can a person provide better services to residents in the territory by organising them as a limited liability company? My feeling is that one with the form of limited liability companies all over the world hopes to be able to reduce or reduce the offer without the politicians having to take full advantage of the criticism. Although the Council of State in the same article says that it is ‘a completely incorrect manufacture’ to give the impression that it is to be privatised, I do not overlook the fact that it is precisely an intermediate to privatisation that the form of a limited liability company makes sense. I'm pretty sure this doesn't right so bad in the ear to the Right and the Advance Party either. Important decisions that can have major consequences for both the inhabitants and the added ones have been taken over the table in this house without the involvement of professionals or employees. This is unprofessional. I have a lot of understanding that they're adding anger. Norway is well ahead when it comes to corporate democracy. We've learned that involving them in all phases of conversion processes isn't just right, it's also a trick. If the Council of State or the Christian People's Party comes up with different thoughts, I'll say, it's okay to turn around. If the state council is to follow up what it has said about not privatizing, it is enough to the left and not to the right it has to turn around. The entry Norge BA and NSB BA are companies created under their own special laws. This was the result of a broad process under the government of Brundtland. The company has great freedom with this form of governance. Social governance takes place through concession and public procurement of services. In short, the difference is that a limited liability company can be more easily split up, partially privatised and bankrupt. The model of a public limited liability company offers business continuity. The result may be poorer and more expensive offers in District Norway. I recently met about 50 bus drivers. Like others in NSB BA, they've been in big conversions in the last few years. Now they're going to route out on offer, which leads to a lot of uncertainty if they want to keep the job. In addition, they are now to become a limited liability company. I understand they are provoked when the plural number is talking as if the conversion is about to take place. Few have converted more than the additions to the NSB and Post, and they are in the middle of large processes with reductions in the number of additions – and so this! The air carrier, which owns most airports in Norway, shall be converted from a management company to a limited liability company. There's going to be a big difference. Today, the Swedish Aviation Agency is subject to clear instructions from the Council of State, even if it is a government of its own. Governor Erlend Rian, whom I call instead, former right-wing politicians, says that the board does not want to decide about the airport structure. Only a few airports have leftovers in Norway. This is used to subsidize people who run under a deficit. It's a system of good social-democratic spirit: to work according to ability and to get as needed. Is that this plural want away? I fear that business considerations will lead to the closure of many small airports. There is an explanation that suggests this. The working party, together with the SV and the Centre, wants to address this issue together with the national transport plan in 2004. That's just how we can guarantee binding and holistic solutions and assessments. In addition, there will be time for those involved to make their views known. The closure of aerodromes may mean the closure of both workplaces and bus services in the surrounding area. It would be to push democracy beyond the line of sides not to give room for influence from those who are involved. Competition for rail passenger services may, at worst, affect regularity and security in a small country such as Norway. In the double track area, the capacity is all blown up, and there is little room to install more trains. Here's what it's going to be about competing for the departures that already exist, and that's where it's going to be interesting to compete. The result can then be that we are left with a state-owned company for the least profitable parts of railway traffic. We think that would be unfortunate. In the EU, a directive on the suspension of competition in all public transport is being worked on. The Stoltenberg Government issued a proposal for a change to the Law on Transport to ensure that employees are better protected when transferring concessions to new tenderers. I hope that the Government will follow up with this law change. We must not get into a situation where they add their rights to the auction to win an offer. I would like to ask again: why is this transition to a limited liability company so important? Is it to speed up the closure of Ulf airports and ferry routes? Is it to add their pay terms and conditions to the balance? Or is it to come closer to privatization where corporate economic considerations and not social concerns are decisive? Transport is important. Transport budget this year is better than in many years. This year, 1.3 billion more is allowed than last year – 650 million. NOK to road and 650 million. kr to railway. It is well on the road towards the fulfilment of the national transport plan. The Bondevik government proposed to grant 140 million in the additionalproposal. kr. more on road and public transport. This is pretty puzzled when we know that as late as in the Sem statement, they promise to increase the proceeds by just over $1 billion a year. The result is now that the Labour Party’s budget is 75 million. kr over the budget of the Government Party and the Progress Party. Once again, these parts promise more and keep smaller. That won't be good. The working party's extra 200 million. kr desired to be used as follows: Forty million. kr to the east fold roads. The situation is dramatic, the regulatory plans are clear, and the Swedish can make better progress than we do. How the representative Holten from Østfold can counter this, I don't understand 60 million. SEK for collective actions in the big cities, with 45 million. NOK 5 million for Oslo. SEK to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger15 million. kr for extended discount schemes for elephants and students10 million. SEK for racial protection measures75 million. kr for various road projects But after the majority reduced the frames by 75 million. NOK, we had to adjust the budget a little bit. We are on our way to public transport, racial protection, E6 in Eastfold and the road to Kragerø. In addition, we're adding 4 million as a multiple. kr extra for the express buses, at the same time as we request a review of the support system with a view to making the scheme more targeted. What is happening today in the road sector is historic. The administrative part of the state road body shall pass through the greatest conversion in modern times. 19 Road Offices shall be replaced by five regions. It makes it possible to drive more strategic transport planning. Smaller resources shall be used for administration and road transport. It'll be good for people around the country. I want to stress that this leads to decentralization, not to the opposite. Unlike the above-mentioned conversions, a long process, in close cooperation with them, has been shown to add. This is the Workers' Party's method of renewing the public sector. I think it is a pity that only the Labour Party and SV support the vision that this regionalisation can be a first step towards better coordination of the whole transport sector. By providing these agencies with responsibilities for maritime, air, rail and public transport in addition to roads, one can take important steps towards holistic thinking in the field of transport. But I hope that the Council of State will consider it anyway. Other speakers from the Working Party will refer to the different sectors more closely. Finally, I want to talk a little bit about aviation. In the Labour Party we are concerned about developments. Therefore, we are pleased that a majority have supported a proposal to ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with a review of the situation and proposals for the permissions or other measures. We cannot sit passive and watch that airports are being disconnected because of the financial situation of the Aviation Agency or that completely necessary extensions to secure revenue in the future are being postponed. I am pleased with the plural's remark that the extension of the Sola Airport should go as planned. The working party does not believe that the cancellation of the fare will improve the situation on a monthly basis. It only affects well-traffic routes. Everyone gets an increase in the cost of getting aviation into the VAT system, and the districts can suffer again. In addition, the loss of the right to set up and withdraw award points will lead to the loss of companies that have Norway as their home market in the battle of the international arena. We're skeptical about bonus programs, but we think Norwegian companies must have the same conditions as the ones they compete with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e339	I register when we talk about conversion and to convert, among other things. The road system of a state AS, that it comes immediately from the Workers' Party side: this is privatisation. This isn't privatisation, but we want to separate the roles. The State must order and the State must check. There are others who are going to do the job. It's important for us to get there. I also register that the Workers' Party wants to reorganise the Swedish Road Administration's production department into a separate divisional model. The reasons given by the Workers' Party are to achieve greater efficiency, such as: requires increased competition. But if we are to get the full effect of reorganization, we must have the production department aligned with other players in the market. The roles will be blurred as the Workers' Party wants. There will be different regulations and regulations to deal with. This, in turn, will lead to low market credibility, including: because of cross-subsidies. And then I will refer to the conclusion that has come from State Consultant. My question will then be as follows: Why will the Workers' Party not give the State Road Administration's production department equal competitiveness by organising it as a State limited liability company? Is it just words and not real action by the Labour Party when talking about the conversion and efficiency of the public and state sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e348	Now I hear again that Right says this is not privatisation. That's what I'm curious about. And I'm wondering when it was so important to the Right with state-owned AS, and that it was the way to solve the societal challenges. I don't fully understand that. I think that the divisional model distinguishes well enough between the different roles, while providing the opportunity to work more strategically and get more efficiency. One of the most important things is that we have to have a thousand settings away from the administration and over the road. I'll do it with the division model. I hope I can do it with an AS as well, but I'll do it with the division model. And what's the point, is to get the most possible way and the most possible done work out of the money. Changes have been very strong, as we have seen in the years that have gone on. And not least – and the commissioner actually said so too – the Road Service has shown that they can. They've been in a very important process to figure out how to do this in a good way. I think it's respect to agree to arrange a conversion package that means as many changes as this can do - as many people who have to move from the desktop and perhaps out on the road, as many as change working conditions. I actually think we've shown it quite well. And then we actually care about involving them in that debt, both because there are good professionals who know a lot about transportation, and who should be involved and express themselves, and because people who are added in one place should be involved and express themselves. In fact, I know that on the question, I just want to ask a lot of counter questions: what is the alternative? How does it feel that a person has arranged his or her book, when a person is about to go ahead and discuss with those who are in Harmony over this decision, but also the way it is done? I want to close this, because when we first have to be wrong, we have to join in and make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e359	The Workers' Party appears to be reluctant to convert in this case. The Swedish Minister of Industry called Norway the last communist state, and he had a good point, especially if he had made it concrete against the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party in this matter. It is clearly a point for the Workers' Party to keep most of the workers away from production and inside the offices for planning. The Workers' Party has protested against the conversion of the companies into limited liability companies. And then they try to give the impression that they're the best friends of NSB employees. It's not always that they're the ones who say they're your friends, who are the best friends. I should like to explain why it is that today there is more and more competition in Europe on the rail network. What is important in order to maintain the jobs of employees is to enable the company to withstand competition. We do this best by giving the same working conditions as we do in a limited company, and by opening up the Norwegian line network at an early stage, so that you are used to competition and can fight back when other competitors come in. Same thing with the Air Force. Here all parties give the impression that they are the friends of the districts – they are to be taken care of in the districts, and therefore we are not to transform the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. The best way to be a friend of the districts is to bring down the air fares. And the air prices can get down by making the Aviation Administration effective. In fact, users are paying the costs of the Aviation Agency, at user charges, and the best way to provide good services to users in the district is to streamline the Aviation Agency in such a way as to reduce prices. Doesn't the Workers' Party support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e370	I think it's totally unthinkable to say that the Workers' Party is anti-conversion. We don't want to convert to the same thing or the same way as the right side, but we want to convert. And then we have actually understood the whole of Norwegian business, that corporate democracy is quite clever. It's not because we see it as a goal in itself to be friends with the bus drivers – even if we want to be friends with everyone – that we think they should be involved when it comes to the conversion of the bus sector, but it's because they have good competence when it comes to bus operations, and because those who add are the ones who are going to do the new things that come, and then it's a good idea that they're involved in the change, because then they'll do it a better way. So we want to convert, but we want to convert to something else. We don't believe in the share company model, which gives us a sense that now is the business economy, now it's "commercial" as debt, and then we're afraid of districts and other things. for the Ulf airports. Svendsen talks about the Swedish Aviation Agency, that one should bring prices down and get more efficiency in the Swedish Aviation Agency. The Swedes must also admit that there are quite a number of airports in this country that no one can spend money on, just as one organizes it in the Aviation Agency. A large number of these small airports are supported to keep them up. Something is happening inside the Aviation Agency to the airports themselves, and something is happening to air travel. But that we can turn this into "Commerce," I don't believe anything. If we were to have competition in the aviation sector or in the airports, it would be about the four airports with excess. So sit me there again just with what costs money for the state. We believe in the Workers' Party is a very poor solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e377	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e380	Traffic is something that concerns us all, and the most important part of transportation is roads. Roads are what we all use, whether we live in the central eastern region or far out in the districts. Unfortunately, it looks like roads are coming into the back of the line in relation to the railway. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has assumed that more than DKK 1.3 billion will be spent on transport. When one includes the reductions we propose for the railways and other efficiency proposals in the transport budget, the Progress Party will release a total of SEK 2.4 billion for road purposes. In addition to this, we have a foreign budget where we propose to spend SEK 1.5 billion on road construction, so that the total pot Progress Party wants to spend on road construction will be close to NOK 4 billion. The need for more money for road purposes is enormous. When a reader in newspapers and watching TV see that Sweden spends NOK 1 000 billion in debt, the construction of a new E6 from Svinesund makes a strong contribution, while in one of the richest countries in the world, we will not spend money saving lives on E6 through Eastfold or other counties, a nearly Norwegian policyholder must understand that. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed significant investment in E6 through Eastfold. It is important to note that this is healthy money. We do not do like the Workers' Party, namely to steal money from other projects to give to, among other things. Eastfold. The Progress Party sees that there is a need for massive investment in the road sector, and then it does not benefit to fool itself by taking from one project to give to another. Either a life is lost in the Westfold, Eastfold, or the Trendelags, it's just as wrong, and what's particularly wrong is that many of these lives could have been saved if the majority of the Storing had been willing to spend more money on road investment and road maintenance. There are investments in different new routes on, for example: E6 in Akershus good examples of where we have seen that accident statistics have fallen dramatically after new construction. It is particularly important for the Progress Party to eliminate accidents on the roads. It should be the same for the other parties in this room. When I add the credit, I think they mean it when they say they're working out of zero vision -- zero killed and damaged in traffic. The problem is just that it looks like the majority have significant problems understanding how to achieve such a goal. To understand that, I would recommend to those parties that do not want to spend more money on roads and road solutions, to read the Progress Party's alternative state budget. There are many good suggestions. Although accidents are important to life, prosperity is also important. Fast and stable promotion is very important for business, and then this is a be or not for the settlement. If the majority of those who talk so well about district policy wanted to bet on road construction and road maintenance, then moving statistics would also have looked different. It should be a dilemma for the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in particular that every time the removal power increases, the same parties send money to county councils and municipalities, as if they are moving south, sending the bill to the companies located in the same district. Then the same parties cling to their heads and wonder why businesses and people move. Unfortunately, the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties did not lead to the large flow of money from rail to road. As can be seen from our draft budget, which is within the framework, the Progress Party is moving from rail to road in excess of DKK 1 billion. When we got the government parts to move 15 million. kr from rail to road, there was a drop in the sea, but it is, after all, better than the Workers' Party's proposal and far better than SVs. But what is important in the budget agreement are the structural proposals, and particularly important is the part that ensures competition on the rail track. I have registered that those who are opponents of competition use many counter-arguments, including: that there are no other actors ready to enter the market. To that it is to say that one cannot expect Norwegian operators to be ready to start railway operations today, when it has not been previously allowed to compete on the track. But I am sure that when this is adopted today, and there is a market being established, the actors will show up, both Norwegian and foreign. And if we had done this before, already Norwegian actors had been established and could have had a advantage out in Europe, when that railway is gradually opened up, but with the steep attitude of the Workers' Party and SV has had against progress, unfortunately, the possibility of much worse for the future establishments and for the NSB. The whole purpose of such a reform is to gain competition so that users can have a better offer, and that the public can release funds that can be used in other areas of transport, preferably on road construction. I imagine that the many unprofitable routes that Stortinget wants to continue are being offered, so that the public buys the services of the one that offers the best possible offer at the lowest possible price. This is a simple and good principle, such as: used for the purchase of air services from Ontøe. And I haven't heard anyone who has arranged for the state to have to own Objection in order to give customers in areas where it is not profitable to fly, a good flight offer. The same principle should apply to the purchase of railway services. Express buses are a flexible and efficient way of resolving collective services. Today it has been virtually impossible to establish express bus routes which have a competitive rail surface. The need for liberalisation in this area has been apparent to most. The Progress Party has repeatedly raised this question in the form of Question Time and as a proposal. Unfortunately, it has been impossible to involve the majority in such an improvement in competition. In the budget agreement, this principle has been implemented by the Progress Party. This is not primarily a victory for the Progress Party, but for the users. A bus route that goes parallel to a railway is, of course, much more flexible and reaches users in a much better way. In addition, such a collective solution is far more cost-effective. In addition, when pressure from the Progress Party led to a first injection of 25 million. NOK to the express buses in compensation for the Stortinget charging diesel service, which in the negotiations was further increased to SEK 29 million. kr, this is a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, the Progress Party did not get a majority for its proposal to compensate the express bus operation by 50 million. kr. As a result, the discount scheme for older people and school students could have continued at the current level. This shows that when the other parties talk about collective solutions, including for the districts, the Progress Party is acting. If someone were to trick, this is one of the reasons why the Progress Party is in strong growth, among other things. in District Norway. The Progress Party wishes to invest in coastal safety. That's why we want an offensive bet on fairways, with the marking of the ship's lead. Accidents and reports from the marine industry show that there is a alarming need for such a bet. Therefore, the Progress Party has proposed that 45 million be used. kr more in this area. The Loran C system has been given new topicality after the cowardly attacks on the United States on 11 September. The GPS systems are known to be a highly accurate satellite navigation system. The problem is that there's no built-in back-up system if this satellite system were to fall out. In Norway, we have a Loran C station in Bø in the Vesterålen. Unfortunately, uncertainty over a long time has led to job vacancies remaining vacant pending possible closure. For the Progress Party, it is important that these posts are filled and that the competence is respected, so that the station is ready to carry on its tasks in a good way in the future if necessary. Even before 11 September, there were clear signs that the use of aircraft as a means of transport was decreasing. This reduction was strongly reinforced by the attacks on the United States on 11 September. This has led to major challenges for aviation in the future. In particular, lower activity will lead to lower revenues for the Aviation Agency. In the view of the Progress Party, it is particularly important that, in such a situation, the Swedish Aviation Agency shows that they are willing to convert. The costs of the aviation service are passed on as known to users in the form of different flight charges. Failure to convert to lower revenues could lead to higher user charges, which would be dramatic, as Norway already has one of the world’s highest user charges. An increase in such charges will lead Norwegian aviation into an evil spiral, with ever higher prices, which in turn will lead to fewer passengers and less revenues. The Progress Party considers that improving the efficiency of the Aviation Agency and critical review of the Air Traffic Authority could lead to savings in order to reduce user charges. Through the budgetary agreement, the Progress Party was given the power to organise the Aviation Agency as a public limited liability company. This improves the ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to meet the future for the benefit of users. On this basis, I would like to address the proposals to which the Progress Party has or is a co-rapporteur. I would also draw attention to the fact that if our good alternative proposal to all presumptions should fall, we will subsidly support the negotiated proposal of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e414	The representative has addressed the proposals to which he referred. The representative can be sure that we will ensure that there will be an opportunity to vote subsidiaryly. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e421	When I listen to the representative Svendsen, I get the impression that a limited liability company is a more high-ranking form of governance than any other way to organise the companies. And I'm assuming that when they want to turn various companies into corporations, it's not because it gives a lot of fat boards and that kind of stuff, that's because you want to move power from Stortinget to that company. The Aviation Agency is one of the companies for which the Progress Party has been put through to be transformed into a public limited liability company. And then you have to move decisions from Stortinget to the board there. I have registered that the director of the Aviation Agency, Erlend Rian, has expressed his opinion on this, and he has not said that it is exciting, he has not said that it is unfortunate, he has said that it will lead to “torture and disaster for the districts” – horror and misfortune! That's pretty strong. Kenneth Svendsen is otherwise very local in the setting. He has even admitted to the majority that the department will investigate one-way driving past his nearby store at Fauske. But here, when he knows that in his own state there are several airports that are in danger of being decommissioned – Svolvær and Narvik are at the forefront of that queue – he is not in the line. Then he adds up to something that the aviation authority itself says will lead to horror and accident. It is obvious that it can quickly lead to an uncontrolled closure of airports in Kenneth Svendsen's own county and Kenneth Svendsen's own region. It's possible that he doesn't know that, but I know that those offers are crucial for the development and ability to do business and to be able to live in those regions. So I can't conclude with anything but that Kenneth Svendsen must be the greatest threat to the development of his own state.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e430	That was an interesting conclusion. What's very nice to bring in such a discussion is that the voters in the Nordic countries obviously disagree with the representative who had the word. I think it is very important in a democracy that the voters get to say their own. We saw this in the election when the Labour Party's solutions were condemned north and down, and they ended up on a historic low, while the Progress Party was moving strongly forward and got more representatives on the Stortinget. So it's good to know that you do it that way. Of course, the meaning of a limited liability company is to be more effective. What's meant by that is to get effective operation. When I leave Bodø, or when business is using the airports, whether it's in Bodø or at Leknes, we're being hit by sky-high user charges. Prices are the biggest obstacle to getting an effective district Norway. What's important then is easy to bring down those prices. What do you have to do? Yes, pressure must be put on, among other things. The aviation system, so that it can be streamlined in such a way as to bring down the sky-high prices. We have one of the world's highest flight charges. Then it's important for us to get these down. Then the representative goes into a one-way drive to the nearby store at Svendsen on Fauske. So in Fauske, E6 goes through the center. I'm from Northland, and I'm busy with the E6 in Northland. I have received many feedback on this, and among other things. many have wanted other wholesalers to engage a little for local road use in the Nordic region. After all, it's everything from Northern Ireland I've been chosen, and then there can't be anything wrong with me wanting to clean up with regard to E6. The allocation to roads takes place after all in this hall. So I hope that the representative will rather concentrate on finding good road goals to solve in Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e440	I'm going to ask questions about aviation and air fares. There has been a major debate in North Norway on air fares. They've increased radically in recent years. From the part of the country, it now costs between NOK 7 000 and NOK 8 000. You can fly about around the Earth for the same amount. Worst is it for those who are dependent on travelling from a short-haul aerodrome via a regular route aerodrome out of the country. It costs from NOK 2000 to NOK 2500 from a flight path aerodrome to a flight path aerodrome. So we have very high air fares, and they probably represent the biggest distance disadvantages for the population and business in the district. So my question is, what will the Progress Party do to bring down the flight prices? They have supported the Government's proposals, and that means a reduction in prices for North Norway and for the districts of approximately. 100 rags, really nothing. Kenneth Svendsen now says in the line change that he should streamline the Aviation Agency. You can get the impression that he is not aware that we have over 40 airports in Norway to operate. We're one of the countries that has the most aerodromes compared to the population. In comparison, Sweden has 10-15. That's one of the reasons why we have a high cost of operating the Aviation Agency, and I assume that it's not the closure of short-haul airports that he's thinking about when he's going to streamline the Aviation Agency. So what is it? SV has proposed that we reduce the flight prices on the runway network by 30 pst. from the next tendering period. We have proposed that public purchases should also be investigated on the main route network in the region in order to reduce air fares. The Progress Party has not supported any of these proposals, and my question is then: why will the Advance Party not be involved in bringing down the flight prices in the district and in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e449	It's not like it's just in Northland you have sky-high flight prices. It's in the West. It's all around this country. What we have been involved in this budget agreement is to ensure that the air passenger fee is removed, which is probably 250 kroner return on a ticket. It's not the whole world, but it's a step in the right direction. There's something that applies to everyone in this country who's flying on all-sea route aerodromes. Everyone gets these reductions. That was the opposite. We were for the reductions. The other concerns the Aviation Agency. When it is said that there are 40 airports in Norway, the potential to be more efficient is even greater. Then you have 40 places you can make it more effective to reduce costs. Then you get back to the purchase of services from Onions when that matter comes to Stortinget. Then we're going to consider what we want to do with the airports on the map track network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e456	The debate has so far indicated that there are different issues of transport policy that address all parties, with different emphasis and subject areas. The Christian People's Party and the Government want a balanced commitment to further road development and good collective solutions, including: via NSB. We don't think it's possible to build itself out of the islands by just building roads, even though these are very important areas. In densely populated areas, we need to use trains, trams and buses to meet the major transport needs. So we want to streamline these services for the benefit of users in public transport. The progress party often has a lot of money, including for transportation, and then preferably for road betting, which has been affected in the past. What's striking then is that there's so much will to go in for cuts in relation to the NSB budgets. I then ask the question: why is this done so consistently when it is this offer that solves the really big transport tasks, and especially in connection with passenger transport in the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e465	The representative Holten says that you are betting on a balanced use of money and that you have a balanced road construction. No, the problem is that it is totally unbalanced. There is a huge use of resources to maintain a line network and a traffic through the NSB on the track, which covers too little of the transport needs in this country. The vast majority of people are not allowed to use the railway. Large parts of the West cannot use the rail network. Large parts of North Norway cannot use the railway. There stops as the well-known railway in Bodø, and all north of Bodø cannot use the railway, except for a short distance from Narvik and into Sweden. It shows that the need to bet on the road and road construction is enormous. That's what helps the population, and that's what helps business in this country. It's just to keep an eye on what business in the districts themselves say, what business itself wants. They want to bet on the road. If you travel around and talk to the population, something we sometimes do, it's the way they want us to bet on – building roads and road maintenance. They want litter, and they want brewing. But we're cutting down on the appropriations, so it's impossible to keep up some road sections. It leads to accidents, and it leads to mutilation of people, who are completely unnecessary, and we should have had enough to fix this by increasing the appropriations sharply to the means of transport that reach the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e470	The cord shift should therefore be over. Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has asked for the word out of turn to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e475	Thank you, President. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Labour Party makes on its own or in conjunction with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e482	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeldt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e485	An OECD report presented this week criticises Norway as an environmental nation in important and serious areas. For approx. 10 years ago, in 1993, a similar report presented Norway in very commendable order. Norwegian environmental policy has therefore been exacerbated in the last nine years. The Minister of the Environment has been offensive and has said that he will rehabilitate Norway's reputation as an environmental nation. We are very pleased about that in SV, but Børge Brende will not be able to do so if his party traps in the Committee on Transport and His Governmental Comrades behave in the way they have done in dealing with the budget for transport. I would like to go through a few of the areas in which Norway has been criticised, and see what we have actually done when we have dealt with the transport budget in the Committee. The OECD says that we are committed to breaking our commitments in the Kyoto Agreement if no new, strong measures are taken to reduce the hazardous emissions of greenhouse gases. We can't forget that the transport sector accounts for almost 30 pst. of the total climate emissions and that the transport sector is the sector that is increasing its emissions most. No other sector experiences such growth in climate emissions as the transport sector does. Therefore, if we are to take environmental considerations, we need to add up to a policy that shifts traffic from road to air to rail and sea. In the case of rail, the proposal for a State budget by the Government of Stoltenberg and the proposal by the Government of Bondevik are completely identical. This is a significant reduction in relation to what was provided just half a year ago when the national transport plan was dealt with. The level of investment has decreased by almost a third. It's almost 600 million missing. kr on the current year's budget if you were to follow up on the ambitions you had just six months ago. If this goes on, the double-track to Asker will be exposed. Those who live in Stavanger can see far after the double-track Sandnes-Stavanger. The same applies to the highest priority railway project – the double track on the Westfold Railway. It is that the train to Tønsberg today uses 13 minutes more than it did in 1973. There has been a majority in Stortinget, until the autumn, to give priority to this route. Christian People's Party has written something that sounds like music about this route in national transport plan: ‘These members consider it important that investment in the infrastructure of trains does not slow down. This may lead to the establishment of a wrong travel pattern. Therefore, these members wish to speed up the implementation of important actions both on the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway. These members are familiar with the great travel time gain that would result from a realist Eidanger Tunnel. This is a prerequisite for later realisation of a connection between the South and the Westfold Railway.’ This was written by the Christian People's Party six months ago. You can shoot a white stick after that double track on the Westfold Railway during the current planning period. The private tunnel can be dreamt of in 2020 if you want to invest at the investment level you set. We agreed with the Christian People's Party six months ago, and I have to ask Odd Holten if he still agrees with what he wrote six months ago. And if he is, why did he then choose such partners in the Committee on Transport as the Progress Party, who will basically put down what we have of the railway? Just to underline the negative nature of rail this year, the majority goes to make a compromise and reduce the low level of railway investment by another 15 million. kr. The result of the Committee's treatment will be fewer railway investments. For the environment, this means no rehabilitation, just a further degradation of Norwegian environmental policy. In this way, it is quite appropriate that we treat Valdresbanen at the same time today. There has also been a majority in favour of tearing up the railway, and it can stand as a shining symbol of the will of the new great crowd to bet on the railway. SV has, of course, greatly increased railway investment in its alternative budget and in our proposal within the framework. Another area where Norway is criticised is emissions leading to acid rain. 20 years ago, sulphur emissions were the worst, today it is the nitrous gases that pose the greatest threat. The transport sector represents 64 pst. of these emissions. And it's actually like today that our emissions are 2 million tons above the international commitments we have under the Sofia Protocol. It is very difficult for Norway to work offensively internationally when we have not managed to sweep for ourselves. Børge Brende does not have a chance to rehabilitate Norwegian environmental policy in this area without having a better cooperation with the Transport Committee than he seems to have had so far. In another area too, we get criticism. There are too many Northmen who are exposed to harmful air pollution. 700000 were exposed to harmful air pollution within one year. Road traffic is the main source of this type of pollution. We are talking here about particulate matter and nitrous gases, which lead to increased mortality, asthma and allergies. Since Norway is lagging behind in environmental policy, the EU has now adopted stricter air quality requirements than Norway has, and through the EEA we have just joined this. Then I am amazed that the Christian People's Party and the Right cannot agree on a proposal that simply means that we should consider which road projects can help to weaken or strengthen our ability to meet the new requirements for air quality. Why can't the Christian People's Party be involved? Why should we not take into account increased demands for clean air when planning new road projects? An important measure to improve air quality is to bet collectively in large cities. We have done so in our budget through a bet on Oslo Sporveier. Here there are no limits to what the Christian People's Party and the Left, but especially the Christian People's Party, I would say, promised in the election campaign. The prices were to be reduced by 25 p.m., the T-Bahn was to be upgraded, and new wagons were to be purchased, and everything was to be done in a split layer between the road user, the municipality and the state. The right was high on the track, they too. Right-wing parliamentary leader and former head of the Transport Committee, Oddvard Nilsen, threw himself into the Oslo election campaign and promised government funds for the purchase of cars for Oslo Sporveier. Why can't the Right and Christian People's Party go into a small note that says we have to start a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to get to such a split layer? I have to say it amazes me. Another area where we do not have much to boast about in Norway also concerns biodiversity concerns. 3 000 species are threatened. But what's a bird species towards a new highway? Can't the bird just fly somewhere else? Physical interventions and land use are the main cause of threats to plant and animal species in Norway. I registered that the representative Jan Sahl said to a Nordic newspaper that if someone as much as looked at alternatives other than Lofast, they ridiculed themselves. In this context, there are 12 endangered species – there are 12 species of birds that need to be found elsewhere. I'd like to say that if it's ridiculous to be for other trasé alternatives, I'd like to be such a ridiculous figure. So to Row 7 over Hardangervidda. 90 pst. of the European wild game we are responsible for in Norway. What the committee came up with was not to close it for winter traffic, but to open Rv 50 in addition. This means that the wild rain will get worse after the committee's examination of the budget than before. I must be allowed to say that neither the draft budget by the government of Stoltenberg nor the draft budget by the government of Bondevik take up to a great extent the reality described in relation to the environmental challenges. It's a shame, and it's sad. But it is far worse that there is nothing in the majority of the budgets that addresses these challenges. I want to say in the end that my consolation in the Committee on Transport is often the painting of Axel Revold with a picture of beautiful nature that hangs behind the leader of the committee. The only thing that is sad about it is that I often think that a majority in the committee would have said, 'There should have been a way here!'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e522	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e525	I would like to present the proposals No. 3 and 7-11, by the Socialist Left Party, and proposal No. 6 on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e530	Heidi Sørensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e536	Both the Workers' Party and the SV have given priority to public transport as one of their main areas of activity. In 2002, the draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg provided a special grant for public transport of 470 million. SEK, of which 440 million. kr had been earmarked for the big cities. Not unexpectedly, SV suggests an increase in this area, an increase at the expense of the road. My question to the representative Sørensen is therefore: is it not a point to bring together a broadest possible alliance to secure the future of public transport? Is it not a point whether SV is seeking alliance with the Workers' Party rather than standing outside and instead choosing to promote populist cuts in road allocation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e541	You rarely get called populist or popular when you do cuts for some roads, it usually shuts up the other way you get. But our weak are justified so that we have cut where road development leads to increased air pollution for children and young people, where the way leads to the destruction of nature and where we have good collective alternatives. We have a different priority than the majority, and we want to make it visible. Otherwise, I would like to say to the representative Froyn that I believe that we have achieved a good cooperation with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party in the Committee. I am also very pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in a joint comment with us on Oslo Sporveier, and that after a campaign where the right side promised much more gold and green forests to Oslo Sporveier than the Workers' Party did. So I think that's nice, and I hope that alliance we'll be able to build on. Otherwise, we have to, and I hope that in the future, the Workers' Party will have a higher priority, to make an alliance for the most important railway operations, because there we have a good deal to get from the right side, as it looks today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e548	SV likes to present themselves as pure, Blenda-white knights of the environment. In spite of this, they will not take the necessary steps to solve the problems that arise in terms of public transport. Take, for example: this fascinating railway collective system, which looks like a battlefield in relation to the problems faced by users: what does SV say when we try to do something organisational and get to the competitive outsource? Both parts must necessarily be important for SV in order to get as many passengers on trains as possible instead of cars, leading to pollution and constipation in our major cities. So what does SV do? Why can't SV give the environment a chance, take a chance and see that it might be just so that competition will improve the offer that the railway is supposed to make? And organisationally, we've been trying for a long time these fortified public solutions for which SV are spokesmen and spokesmen, now is the time to try new grips. Why not be the leader where?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e553	The representative gives me the opportunity to comment on the reorganisation that we experienced overnight in the committee. Let me put it this way: I have a very pragmatic attitude about how we are going to organise public transport so that it benefits users as much as possible. However, the budget compromise that we are presented over the table with three AS and three new competitions without a continuous discussion, I see as – if it is allowed to say so – very unprofessional treatment of our main actors in the transport sector. I've been in a lot of governments and organs in my life, but not even in the laws of nature and youth, we had so little time when we made such serious decisions. Then I must be allowed to say: When the Right and Christian People's Party has gone to the Advance Party to bet on the train, it is not the love of the train that makes Kenneth Svendsen want to have increased competition on the railway. It has to be clear. That's because he wants to bet on completely different things. And when you go in at the same time to reduce the appropriations for the rail corridor on which you want to compete, the environmental accounts of the majority are not at all linked. It's stuffy on the rails around the Oslo area. There is no country in the world that drives as many trains on as little rail as we do. If that were the case, if they really wanted a lift for the railway, the train and the environment through these reorganisations, then such a reorganization proposal would have been accompanied by large increases in funding for the infrastructure on which this majority actually wants it to be competitive. The experience with that kind of competition we've seen in the United Kingdom, and there's nothing of what we've seen there that makes us want to repeat the lack of success.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e560	As long as the speech goes through the President, the President will stress that 'uncertain' is clearly a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e563	So now environmental policy has seriously entered the Committee on Transport and the debates there. I will leave all the environmental effort that the representative, Sørensen, had in his post, because it really belongs in tax debates. We have never seen that SV has supported that it will be cheaper to buy new cars instead of having the old car park that we have. But I'll leave it. I'm going to focus on transportation, and here SV and the representative Sørensen will move all traffic away from the road and across the railway. They shave almost every road project in this year's budget. The solutions are strong bets on the T-Bahn, the railway must solve all transport problems, and even trams and bicycles have been widely mentioned in this ‘lefsa’. But then it is, and the representative Sørensen admits itself, that there is little railway. It's 4,000 km by rail in Norway, while we have 96 000 km by road. That's when I want an answer on how SV will solve the problems of transporting people and goods in Norway in the future. You can double the transport on the NSB, but the NSB stands for poor 5 pst. of passenger transport and 8 pst. of the carriage of goods. You can double the freight, you can triple the freight with NSB, but you can't solve the transport problems that we have through Eastfold, around Oslo and down the Southland today. How, with its environmental policy and commitment to the T-Bahn, bicycles and railways, will SV solve the problems in the transport sector today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e577	I am not surprised that the representative Nistad is not concerned with environmental protection, and therefore there is no need to take it into account when developing his policy. What's more surprising is that parties like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, who say that they take environmental protection into account, cooperate with those who don't. So the question of how we're going to solve the transport problems in the future. I would like to show that there are relatively few roads, to which the representative refers, to which SV has gone in to close. It's actually just one. It's Row 7 over Hardangervida, and we're going to close it in winter because we're going to take greater care of the wild train. It is easy for the representative Nistad to ridicule the bet on bicycles. Bicycle is a very important means of transport in Norway. It's actually going to be 50 pst. Of all the trips, it's less than 5 km, and for us in pretty good shape, it could be a good distance. Bicycle is a great environmentally friendly means of transport, it's a health-friendly means of transport, and the only thing that actually makes a little bit nicer to use it. So the representative says that we haven't been involved in making it cheaper to buy new, more environmentally friendly cars. That's wrong. We have even proposed in this year's budget to increase the funding for research in fuel cells, which allows us to get zero-emission cars. It is research that the Progress Party has completely cut. I am also amazed that the majority as such will not be involved in a bet on 0-emission cars, as it is something that the Sem comrades have even mentioned in their statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e588	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e591	The Sem declaration clearly expresses the willingness to invest in transport. This is done through a significant focus on roads and collective services, with about one out of every two countries. SEK 4.5 billion in increased frameworks over this four-year period. Distribution and prioritisation between road and collective services are roughly equal in our efforts. This is based on the recognition that we do not have the power to build ourselves out of the density of traffic in the press areas. Collective solutions therefore need to be developed further, through development, outsourcing and efficiency. If we are to be able to solve the transport needs of the future, there is no time for rest breaks. We need good travel offers that take account of the needs of users. Particularly demanding is the development of environmentally and socio-economic good solutions for private transport and business needs in general. The Christian People's Party wants the transport policy to address the needs of large groups of commuters from home to work and the high transport needs of business. An efficient logistics service for business goods and services is essential for growth and development. The opposite of this will be stagnation and all that it can mean for the individual and for society. We have to get considerably better at getting good environmental solutions. We need solutions that allow us to carry goods on trains and boats, and to a greater extent away from road transport. If this is to be resolved, we need to get better offers – several individual elements need to be improved. The main individual areas are price, speed, quality and regularity. A good example here is fresh goods transport, which cannot risk delays. To a greater extent than before, it must also be recognised that the transport sector is no better than the weakest link. In this context, some sections point negatively. These are sections with many fatal accidents and poor performance, such as: E6 and E18 through Østfold – a state that I know very well, and how about. 75 pst. of all the country's goods are carried. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to get more efficient solutions to travel in order to get as much back for the appropriations we use. This is part of a long-term work for commuters and businesses. And in this it is that districts will also be guaranteed the best possible provision of transport, including investment in road safety. The Christian People's Party wants to keep the user in the center all the time. This is about man's everyday life and to a significant extent about life and health. The Christian People's Party does not support any privatisation of the NSB and Post, as SV and the Workers' Party say. We point out that they should be state limited liability companies. The Christian People's Party believes that some important principles must be laid down for the operation of these companies. Services shall be nationwide and prices shall be competitive. I believe that there is no injustice to employees, as it is claimed, when the Christian People's Party points out that it should be possible to operate more effectively than today. Our goal is more efficient services, while ensuring that everyone benefits from better services. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to open up real competition. When the majority of the Committee on Transport recommends the conversion of the NSB, Posten and the Swedish Aviation Administration to State limited liability companies, more transport is needed for each krona. The conversion of the road system is a clear sign of shifting focus from administration to production. The country purchases passenger transport services from the NSB. It is the volume of this purchase that determines how well the provision of passengers should be in the future. The Bondevik government grants more money for purchases next year than the Workers' Party government proposed. In our budget and in the Sem statement we have signaled further escalation. This is an offensive collective policy that passengers will notice. The focus is on offering the best possible range of services to the users of these services. The government parties are therefore pleased that the Progress Party supports the conversion in the transport sector. This is in accordance with the intentions of the Sem Declaration. In the case of the Item, the concession requirements are clear for, inter alia: the provision of universal postal services throughout the country at a reasonable price and at good quality. The government will continue to underpin its work that there will be good and equivalent offers across the country. Minister of Transport Skogsholm has ensured that the conversion of Posten and NSB into a limited liability company should not lead to poorer offers in the districts. On the contrary, it has to get better. I fully support this. It means virtually no change for the NSB to become a limited liability company. «We are already acting as a limited liability company», Communications Director Audun Germany in the NSB has told NTB that it is becoming a public limited liability company. NSB employees are currently working in a BA, a limited liability company, and no longer have special arrangements for government employees, as they had in the past. The NSB itself says that they think it should be exciting to get competition on the track. These are positive signals. The Railway Station will continue to determine whether other operators can use the rails for train operations. The Railway Agency is responsible for the management and has overall safety responsibilities and responsibilities for the line network, signals and traffic management. The post office also wishes to welcome the proposal to become a limited liability company. Konsernschef Kaare Frydenberg in Posten Norge BA is also positive to this. The demands for action and the pace of the decision are increasing. In that case, state-owned enterprises must also be able to make rapid decisions. The head of the group in the NSB also believes that an AS formation will not affect the employees. As early as June of this year, the size abolished a number of special schemes in the BA legislation, so that the framework conditions for employees have already been harmonised with the Share Company Act. The Christian People's Party believes that employees have no reason to fear a competitive outing. An AS model is not essential for quality. This is determined by the purchase of services, regulations and laws. Our goal is to have the user in the center. We want more efficient services, while ensuring that everyone benefits from the services. The government's policy in the field of transport must be judged on the basis of the objectives we have for the entire parliamentary term, and not on the basis of the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e633	Being the committee's representative has its advantages in a number of respects. Among other things, the memory of previous debates is strong. I can also trust the President with a secret: my short-term memory is not so bad either. In November 1996 the Stortinget debated the transformation of Posten and NSB into a specialised law firm. In the change of line, current Prime Minister Bondevik asked me the following questions: «When the Workers' Party, by its Chief Spokesman, also characterises a special-law company as being forward-looking, can we assume that the Workers' Party will not later move to the form of a limited liability company for the NSB and the Post Office, but will remain in the form of a special-law company as a permanent solution for the NSB and the Post Office?» In other words, Bondevik and the Christian People's Party were committed to establishing that the special law companies would be a lasting solution, as the Workers' Party confirmed. Now – five years later – the Christian People's Party tries itself with a U-turn – in 100 km/h. I don't think such maneuvers are recommending. It can happen quickly. The majority justify the transformation with the competitive situation. I would like to ask the following question: Can the representative Holten specifically explain what is wrong with today's organisation when it comes to meeting what the majority thinks is the competitive situation? In the debate here Holten confirms that it should be a public limited liability company. But in the majority position, it is quite clear that it is going to be a limited liability company. This cannot be interpreted in any other way than a short-term or longer-term desire to privatise these enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e649	The representative Ola Røtvej got into this with short-term memory and long-term memory, and it's of course useful to bring it with him in this kind of debate. I think it's right to say it this way: one can never say that something is constant in a trial in Stortinget. The size of the stake always takes the decisions they think are right. The representative Røtweg quoted from a case five years ago. Developments in the field of transport have led the majority to believe that there is now a need to try new forms through an AS, in order to achieve a greater degree of efficiency — get more out of each krona — and thus improve services. The Christian People's Party has clearly taken into account in the attitude that we now have to deal with here in the Storting, to carry out a transformation into a state-owned company, which is to be the whole time of the state. This is a principle that we believe must underpin further work in the areas we are currently dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e656	The differences between the budget presented by the government of Stoltenberg and the budget presented by the government of Bondevik are not very large. In the financial position, these differences in trade were smaller. The Christian People's Party, which sits in a coalition of governments, had a clear choice in the committee: Who are we going to cooperate with? One might have thought this way: who are we going to work with to get a more environmentally friendly transport budget? If the Workers' Party had been elected, it would have been better. Had you chosen SV, it would probably have been even better. You could even have chosen the Workers' Party and SV together – and made it better. One party in the committee has the absolute most extensive proposal. It's the Progress Party. There is less distance between the SV's budget and the Government's than there is between the Advance Party's budget and the Government's. Despite this, the «environment party» Christian People's Party chooses to go to the Progress Party to get a cooperation. Why has this environmentally hostile choice been made? I have registered that the head of the Energy and Environment Committee, who is a representative of the Christian People's Party, has been involved in the wilderness at Hardangervidda. I have further recorded that the same commitment is not as great with the representatives of the Christian People's Party in the Committee on Transport. And I want to repeat a question from my post earlier today: Why can't Christian People's Party support a proposal to consider which road projects will help reduce air pollution? What does the Christian People's Party think about double tracks on the Westfold course? Shall we shoot a white stick after that? Or will we make more environmentally friendly alliances the next time we decide things in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e669	Very many individual questions were raised here by the representative Heidi Sørensen. I can start with the last and say that it is quite natural for us – through the effort that we say in the Sem Declaration we will go into, how significant billions will be spent on upgrading the railway – that important sections of the central eastern region, including the Westfold Railway, will be prioritised and raised. I think that's quite a consensus. I am pleased that the representative Sørensen characterises the Christian People's Party as an environmental party. We will be, and we believe that we are. We want to go through a budget on which the Sem Declaration is based – and here the committee leader has already said that it is not this year's budget on which we are to be measured, we are to be measured over the four-year period – of course come back to a stronger commitment within what is involved in collective solutions. This is clear in the assumption. As for row 7 over the Hardanger range, it is a common comment that should be satisfactory so far. We'll get back to that case. Then I was asked why we went one way or the other when it came to getting a budget settlement. Very familiar was there no invitation from the Workers' Party or from other parties to obtain a budget settlement. What we're now dealing with is an agreement with the Progress Party. They have at least been involved in the areas for which we thought it was the basis in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e682	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e685	There are many issues that might be interesting to address in the budget setting of the Committee on Transport. I could, for example, use my entire contribution to talk about the railways, needing new investments and maintenance. I could use the post to talk about maritime transport, better maintenance and labelling of the lease, the development of ports and how we're going to get a larger share of transport across from land to sea. Or I could talk about aviation -- the only form of transport that is mainly self-financing, which leads to high ticket prices, especially for parts of the grid. I could also focus on racial protection, road transport, public transport or other issues. In a short article, it's impossible to include everything. I would like to focus on a few of the different topics that are included in the budget setting, and at the end of the article, I would also like to say a little about Innst. S. No 50, which relates to the 2001 changes in the laws of the Ministry of Transport, a matter in which I am a case spokesman. Free capacity is still available in the civil engineering sector. That's the way it's been for the last couple of years. The centre batch has therefore repeatedly proposed to increase investment funds, especially for road investment, in order to put available hands and machinery into work. In the Central Party's alternative budget for 2002, we also have proposals for increases in investment funds for transport. But this isn't multiple for. Not even the Bondevik II government, with the largest right party, has put in a special increase in traffic, this in spite of the promises that Right came into the National Transport Plan, and the promises that many Right-Representatives came into the election campaign. Transport is an important component of urban and rural development and resource use. For business it is particularly important to reduce distance costs. We know that the transport costs for Norwegian business are very high compared to what they are in many countries we can compare with. Standardisation and development of road networks, port development and fairway investment are important measures. Many road projects are ready to be realised. In the national transport plan, a joint committee asked for the Ministry to return to the Stortinget with proposals on how alternative ferries can be used as co-financing for the realisation of commercial projects. I have noticed that so far there is nothing concrete about this. The Stoltenberg government problemed this in its proposition, and from the Bondevik II government, it's just said that this should come back to where it's concerned. In the National Transport Plan, the Left moved its representative to the Committee on Transport for more than the rest of the Committee to instruct the Government to come back, at the latest in the 2002 budget, with models of how ferries can be used to realise a commercial project. I therefore expect that, when the Committee again points out that the Government will make such proposals, a Minister for Trade from the Left may not wait a long time with such feedback. National road ferries are an important part of the road link along the whole coast. But this is an abominable part of the road. The holiday ticket costs a lot more than the cost of running the corresponding distance. Especially for commuters and businesses, this is noticeable. I know that for more companies, shipping costs have just been decided for the location. For the existence of many coastal activities, it is crucial for competitively competitive that ferry costs do not become too high. This is why Centerpartiert has included 20 pst in its alternative budget. reduction of the ferry tickets. I have registered that the Center Party is on its own about this, but we have as our goal that national road ferries will be free of charge in the long term. I also know that many states from other parties share this vision. What is most striking in the position taken by the Committee on Transport is the wide-ranging conversion of the structures of Norwegian transport policy to which a multiplicity applies. The reorganization of the State Road Service, both the administrative part and the production part, had one after the handling of the national transport plan expected to return to the Stortinget at the beginning of this landfill session. Quite rightly, the Stortinget asked for the reorganization as a matter of course and not as part of the budget. But in any case, this has been distributed and known to those who are added and trusted. In relation to the Stoltenberg government, the Bondevik II government, with the support of the majority of the committee, has moved one step further in relation to the form of connection for the production part of the State Road Service. Instead of the divisional model, one shall have the share company model. The centre party, together with SV, has pointed to the organisational model of the state road service that these parties have been working together. We mean our model with a common transport and vegetate would provide an effective way of life and be a good basis for a holistic transport policy. This was also the Christian People's Party's position until a few months ago, but the Christian People's Party has changed its position here, as in so many other areas of culture. I have noticed that the majority of the regional model of the State Road Service has stressed in the setting, that this model is going to be a decentralised solution. With this emphasis, I expect that when regional offices are to be located, some of them will be placed outside the big cities. Moving tasks from today’s road office and gathering them in five regional offices will become a centralisation itself. If all regional offices are located in large cities in the regions, the plural notes are only fine words and no reality. The centre batch is critical to the AS model of the production part for which the multiple is entered. We believe that the AS model assumes that we are correcting the private contractors on the site. We also believe that this is not the right model in terms of preparedness. When the three government parties and the Progress Party also introduce in the budget setting changes in connection form for the Swedish Aviation Agency, NSB BA and Post Norway BA, these are so extensive changes in Norwegian transport policy that I would call it irresponsible to do so in the way that one now does. Without proper representations, or being informed or taken into account in the process, this does not lead to much trust. What surprises me most is that the Christian People's Party so easily jumps on the AS model for so many companies in the transport sector. A change of policy in this area has gone quickly in the Christian People's Party. We go into the settings of the trade committee from the previous period, for example. in the case of a national transport plan, we can read in the notes that the Christian People's Party was responsible for another policy. It is not advisable to make such different comments without a marked change in the policy direction. Then move on to the Inst. S. No 50 on the 2001 changes in the promises of the Ministry of Transport. Most of the changes mentioned in this section are brought to the attention of the Committee, and the Committee has few or no comments. But on two points, the Committee has shared. There is a debt case for an increased loan framework for the E18 East-Agderpaket, which is a partially toll-funded project. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the proposal for an increase in the Loan Framework. In its observations, the Party of Progress has referred to its principal views on the use of tolls. The second point where the Committee is divided relates to Valdresbane – the Leira-Dokka section. This is a matter on which the Committee expressed an opinion in the spring of this year. S. No 327 for 2000–2001. A number then said that the Dokka-Leira section could be freed for purposes other than for railway purposes, and asked that rails and sleepers on the Bjørgo-Leira route be removed, so that one could start building pedestrian and cycle roads. Now, when things come back to the committee, it's because the Department recommends the Stortinget to make decisions on this matter in line with the plural comments of ours. A minority, including The centre party was there, said in our comments that because of the strong commitment to maintaining the railway track, a wait to tear up the loop while there was a quick clearance from the stakeholders. The minority also stressed that in this case, stakeholders would have to finance the entire section of the track. I did not think this was a very simple matter. Strong interests will continue to sustain the railway track. I understand the interests of maintaining the track track, but more municipalities in the area, including Oppland County Municipality, think the line should be used for other purposes. In addition, the Department has now stated that the Railway Agency believes that the route Leira-Dokka cannot be operated by passenger trains and that the Railway Agency is no longer financially responsible for the maintenance of the completed route. E16, which is the main road through Valdres, is a heavily trafficked road with heavy traffic. I understand that many parents and local politicians are busy getting a safe walk and cycle path for soft road users. Just the situation for school students in the area is strongly underlined by parents who have made contact in this matter. Focusing on the security of vulnerable road users must be an important task for us politicians. The entire Committee, with the exception of SV, has therefore found, following a comprehensive assessment, that it is right to open up the network between Leira and Dokka on Valdresbanen for other purposes and that rails and sleepers on the Bjørgo-Leira route are removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e728	We in the Workers' Party seemed to notice a change in course at the Christian People's Party now. The representative Ringstad sat under the Bondevik I government on the other side of the table in layers with this party and the Left. The representative was also involved in the article. I would like to give the representative Ringstad the opportunity to tell others if it is the Center Party that has changed its vision. Just because of the treatment of the national transport plan in ours, there are major policy changes in course. What does the Central Party believe its representative has its cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e740	During the entire previous period, there was close cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on the trade side. The years of central government set, there was natural cooperation based on what was also the basis of the Government. But the close cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party did not end at the change of government in the previous period. We continued to cooperate closely because we had a parallel position. That's how I experienced it. Less than a year ago, the call came from the Transport Committee on National Transport Plan. I also showed a little bit in my post that there are a lot of comments in common between the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and we stood together against what's now happening in the field of trade, we simply said no to an extreme degree of AS in the field of trade. We can go through areas and see that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party did not participate in a single proposal to introduce the AS model. So I also wonder when I hear that Odd Holten in his post and in the lineword exchange says that nothing is constant. He also says they're busy getting more out of each heads. But there's nothing new! After all, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party said before that, that we should get more out of each krone. We have written that together in budgetary settings in the Committee on Transport several years ago. Nothing is constant. No, it's okay, things change, but such a document, which is a ten-year plan for traffic, must last longer than at the bottom of a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e747	The vice-president of the Central Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, has initiated an action against the Government, which may not be fully characterised without conflict with parliamentary language. This is done in plenary session, where the possibility of a majority vote is available. The starting point is, among others: the current proposal on the formation of a limited liability company by the Aviation Agency. We who have heard the vice-president’s argument understand it so that Jorunn Ringstad can equally withdraw from any forthcoming debate on the short-haul network and its application after the airline becomes a limited company – this is because the aviation offer is said to be out of our hands. Or, on the other hand, there are completely different challenges to the share company model, security-related challenges, which the Committee is already briefed on, which could threaten the provision of air services, such as: in Sogn and Fjordane? And in the case of the latter, which should be evident, has not the Vice-Chairman of the Center Party been put in line by politicians who, according to the central party model, can be prosecuted for misleading marketing of their seas and their proposals? The County Council of Sogn and Fjordane has encouraged, among others: I do not want to support the Government and, on the other hand, go in alliance with the Central Party – this with 22 to 17 votes. Does the Central Party consider such work to be one of the county's priority tasks? Or are such things simply ridiculous, as many have already characterized it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e757	It's a little interesting to notice that we're continuing with the tradition from the previous period when it relates to the Central Party's representative on the Committee on Transport. That habit comes true from my fellow countryman. That's interesting, but now there's a break in the old tradition when it comes to the contents of the line. I actually looked back a little bit on previous replicas in larger conductive mats, and in the previous period, the content was basically the same. There was a lack of follow-up of promises at the Center Party. But now it's obviously not in place. So the short-range network and our impact are going to be less on the AS model. It's probably supposed to be someone that it won't be, but the fact is that we give up part of the control when we convert to AS. It's not possible to imagine people in this room that there's no situation. We can draw parallels to what happens in NRK. Why does the Minister of Culture stand on television and in other media and say: No, I don't want to intervene, because the NRK has internal self-government. If the NRK wants to reduce the supply in the districts, merge district offices, the state council will not intervene because the NRK has internal self-government. It's going to be the exact same situation in all the AS companies that Right now together with their plural will go in to ship. We don't want the same governance from Stortinget and from the Government's side when we agree to that reorganisation. It's well possible to cheat into the belief that here we're going to continue to rule, but that's not the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e764	The centre party will appear as both an environmental party and a district party. Both parts are just as high priority, they say. I am pleased to note that the SV and the Centre Party and also the Workers' Party have been very much united in this budgetary procedure. It was a positive experience. But in one area, SV and the Center Party separate teams. The centre party will not be involved in prioritising investments in rail. It is clearly the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. There is a need to give greater priority to investment in the rail network. Railway investments have been very poor in this budget. Only 60 pst. be complied with in relation to the national transport plan. We compare ourselves with Sweden, where there is now an agreement in the Riksdag between the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Environmental Party – I assume – to invest over DKK 100 billion in railway investments in Sweden over the next 10-12 years. Norwegian railway policy is huge puzzles in relation to the outside world. My question to Mr Ringstad's representative is: why does the Centre not want to give priority to the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, namely rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e773	It is quite right that the representative said: the centre party perceives itself both as an environmental party and as a district party. It is also right that the Senterpartiet has co-operated with the Arbeidarpartiet and SV on many comments in the setting that we are debating today. Well, it's not just one point that you want to separate layers, it could be a little bit more. That's what it has to be when we're different parties. But I'm saying a little bit about the wording and the statement that came, that the centre party won't be involved in prioritizing the railway. We didn't take a penny from the railway. We don't have a suggestion to reduce the permissions by one penny. On the other hand, the majority that was formed in the committee have moved funds from railway to road. But the centre party was not on that re-priority, so we've supported every penny that's been raised in the budget when it's on railway investment for the next year. If the representative wants to challenge what is going on in Sweden's major investments, and if we do not have the same in Norway, we will have that discussion when it comes to proposing to increase investment here as well, but it is quite clear that a district party must also think that large parts of the country do not have a railway. We can't invest less if we don't realize at the same time that we also build the districts, because large parts of North Norway and large parts of the West don't have a railway. There is the road the only means of transport in the country, and therefore it must also be a high priority. I hope that SV will also give priority to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e787	In the original draft budget of the Coastal Party, we pointed out that there is room for significant increases in appropriations for transport purposes. The current denial of the transport sector is one of the biggest disadvantages of Norwegian society in relation to our competitors. Maritime infrastructure should be made better and safer, and people in the districts should be provided with a better route. In our alternative state budget, we had provided additional funding for the following purposes: the City-ship tunnel, new fairway at the List, increased subsidies to fishing port facilities and to the Rescue Company. We had also stated that the rescue service would receive 20 million. kr more in the framework area 5, justice. We have also proposed increased appropriations for the national road network and racial protection. One particular problem is that the road standard, for example: in the Nordic region does not meet the new requirements for trailer traffic. The Coastal Party would have granted 85 million. more than the Committee proposes. In our proposal, we proposed that the ferry should be reduced and that toll prices should be reduced. We had spent extra money on the framework grant to reduce the cost of the county ferry routes. Furthermore, we support the proposal put forward by the Committee to suspend national road transport operations. This will provide a not insignificant savings that can benefit users. After all, we have experience from a trial project where you can see that it could bring very great savings to the road office. The coastal party proposed that the premium for the express buses should be continued in 2002. When you support the railway to Fauske, why don't you support the express buses from there to Narvik, Tromsø and Vesterålen. There are no other options. This appropriation is, in fact, a compensation for increased taxes, and the refund – if based on the original assumption – should be 70 million. kr, which is the original need there. This is only a compensation for charges. I don't think you're quite aware of the consequences in the long term. VAT is discriminated against for other road and port purposes. It is illogical to discriminate against port purposes when one says otherwise that one wants to transfer more and more of the transport from road to sea. The coastal party is opposed to the proposals to convert the NSB, Posten and the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. We believe that such services should be at the hands of the public and democratically controlled. Only in this way can they be managed according to overall societal assessments, and we are particularly concerned about the short-range network – the development of turning the Aviation Agency into a public limited liability company. In the event of privatisation, governance will take place on the basis of narrow business-economic criteria. In this context, it can be mentioned that England is now considering renationalising its rail system. The reason for this is that privatisation has led to several accidents, more bureaucracy and major differences in supply. The coastal area is opposed to removing the line between Leira and Dokka. So we're going to vote against Roman II of Innst. S. No 50 for 2001-2002 on the release of the network between Leira and Dokka for other purposes and the removal of rails and sleepers on the Bjørgo-Leira route. Finally, the Coastal Party will include a call specifically for the city councils of the country to strategically focus on bringing more of car passenger transport onto collective funds. This will have a positive environmental, health and economic impact and will make significant road investment in key areas redundant. Especially in Oslo, it will be necessary to take the necessary political decisions to give public transport priority to car traffic. You are, for example, regulatory decisions need to ensure the accessibility of the tramways in order to provide a fair and effective offer to more. When the physical possibilities of expansion are at the ready, it is natural for the State and the municipality to participate in spice layers in order to provide the Railways with the necessary lifting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e810	A secure and efficient transport network and good cross-border postal and telecommunications services at a reasonable price are key objectives of the Cooperative Government. Better transport is necessary for value creation and well-being, to improve people’s health and environment, to reduce the distance disadvantages of districts and to increase road safety. I am very pleased that the Government has had an impact on the Stortinget for proposals that mean both stronger efforts on public transport in major cities and increased appropriations for important road projects. The framework conditions for aviation are improved by a fee reduction of more than DKK 1 billion, such as: will be of great importance to people and businesses in the districts. In all these areas, we are taking important steps in the right direction, compared with the proposals of the previous government. I am pleased that the consideration of the budget in the Committee on Transport has led to the maintenance of the Government's commitment to increased public transport appropriations. Good collective provision, especially in large cities, will have a major impact on improving the environment — cleaner air, reduced noise and land needs. At the same time, well-functioning collective services will improve the promotion of commercial and commercial transport in urban areas. I have noticed that the majority of the committee is in favour of the Government's proposal for increased appropriations for upgrading the T-Bahn in Oslo and for the urgent planning of the urban railway in Bergen. I also record that it is a majority to strengthen the nationwide school and student discount scheme on collective travel. Giving people a better collective offer, not least in our metropolitan areas, is one of my most important ambitions as Minister of Transport. I look forward to continuing this effort, among others. by initiating work on a separate monitoring message on public transport. Such a comprehensive communication on the challenges and instruments of collective policy is a new piece of work that has never been done by previous governments. The Committee on Transport has also largely joined the draft budget for rail purposes, which represents an increase in the allocation of more than 13 pst. from the 2001 budget. In prioritising funds to the Railway Agency, emphasis has been placed on continuing the commitment to the operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure, in line with the approach set out in the National Transport Plan 2002-2011. In particular, the investment budget gives high priority to the completion of projects started and new double tracks on the Sandvika-Asker route. Even with the strong increase in the rail budget, a significant increase will also be required in the coming years to follow up the planning framework of the action programme to the national transport plan. This situation poses a major challenge both for our government and for the Storing in the coming years. As the bulk of the population will largely support the government’s proposal for a road budget, the road budget will also be lifted compared to the 2001 budget. As for the railway, it is the Government's ambition to follow up the economic planning framework of the adopted action programme to the national transport plan. In the proposal for a road budget, there is a clear priority for operation and maintenance. These are areas of great importance for road safety and for maintaining the standard on the existing road network. The proposal for an investment budget focuses on ensuring rational construction operations for projects under way. However, it is also proposed to launch several new important projects. The majority of the Committee points out that it is important that Europe Road 6 through Eastfold is extended to the four-field motorway faster than was foreseen in the Stortingen treatment of the Eastfold package. I'm totally committed to this. Forced deployment of E6 through Eastfold is necessary both because of road safety and because this is a very important route for business transport in and out of Norway. I will come back to Stortinget with detailed plans for such a service. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposals for a comprehensive reorganization of both management and production tasks in the state road system. The proposal will provide a more effective state road service, where less resources will go to administration and more money can be used for development, operation and maintenance. It will benefit the whole country, and I notice that the Committee emphasises precisely this efficiency gain. The transformation of production activities into public limited-liability companies combined with a high degree of competitive take-up will result in more efficient road production. The government will return to the Stortinget in the spring of 2002 with, among other things, progress plan for this process. Furthermore, the reorganisation of the administrative part in five regions will mean a clear decentralisation, by delegating tasks from the Road Directorate in Oslo today, while building on existing areas of competence in the establishment. Local influence shall be safeguarded and strengthened in the reorganisation to take place. Hardly any area of transport policy is currently facing as great challenges as aviation. In addition to the fact that aviation’s international problems are also taking place in Norway, we have seen, over a long period of time, a weak domestic traffic development. The Government will work to maintain a good nationwide aviation system while respecting security requirements. Not least because of this, we have proposed to remove the State air passenger charge. I am pleased that a clear majority are in favour of this proposal, which will facilitate Norwegian aviation more than DKK 1 billion a year, and which will also help to strengthen the performance and investment capacity of the Swedish Aviation Agency. The majority of the Committee has several proposals for increased competition and for the transformation of transport activities into public limited-liability companies. The transformations will require legislative changes, and the procedure will follow the usual procedures in such cases. This includes, inter alia: that the employees’ organisations will then be involved in the treatment. I find it difficult to understand the criticism and fear that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are expressing in the setting. I am particularly surprised at the attitude of the Labour Party. Following the changes implemented in the last year in the laws of the postal and railway companies, respectively, by the then Labour Party Government, the organisation of the companies corresponds to that of the State limited liability companies. The same is true of the position of employees. I would like to remind you that it is only the right of employees to a new position in the State and the right to a waiting salary that is today special for the Post and NSB in relation to the Share Company Act. It is provided in the BA laws that these rights apply until 1 January 2005. I am in favour of this transitional arrangement being maintained, but ultimately it will be up to the Storting to decide such questions. The organisation of the NSB and the Post today, initiated by the then Labour Party Government, is broadly equivalent to the legislation applicable to public limited-liability companies. However, it is important for companies that they have an organisational form known in the market, also internationally. I would like to stress strongly that a transformation into AS does not involve the privatisation of the companies. The State's ability to intervene with the companies, if necessary, will not be impaired as a result of a conversion into a limited liability company. I would like, among other things: evidence that the Post will continue to be obliged to meet the social requirements resulting from the concession to the Company. I would also like to point out that this government has agreed to increase the allocation for the purchase of rail services from the NSB in relation to the proposal of the previous government. In transforming the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company, we need to define the premises for the activities of the Swedish Aviation Agency that provide good societal solutions. It is important to think aviation solutions in addition to those on public limited-liability solutions [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e844	The number is out. The President is sure that the Council of State will have the opportunity to make the end of his speech later in the debate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e851	There's a lot of what the government council said, in which the Labour Party is merged. But there's a lot of what she didn't say, as I wanted to know, and I'm going to ask some questions. So I hope that we get more opportunities to discuss for years to come. Once again, when it comes to the main issue, which is the organisation of the enterprises, it's just goal formulations. It's a little concrete. So the Council of State says that there are important steps that have been taken in this budget compared to the previous one. Then I must say that then it must be the reorganisation that is, as it were, the qualitative, important step, because there is less money in the budget of the majority than in ours, so it cannot be the important step. I hope the government doesn't see it as the most important step. After all, it is the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is the party of the Council of State, which has changed sides when it concerns the organisation of the transport sector, cf. as was said in a reply here earlier about what Bondevik said in 1996. I would like to ask, and the Council of State will have to answer as far as it likes: Was the Council of State in favour of the demands of the Progress Party for new AS in the sector? When it becomes AS now, will it control more than Mr Svarstad Haugland did when it applies to the NRK, so that when it becomes AS, will one still see that airports are not closed or other offers are severely reduced? Does she feel well about the process, starting with the fact that so many of the people who are going to work in these activities are against it? Or does she have the same hold as the representative Holten, that when a couple of bosses are positive, all of them are positive? Or is she interested in what they add to their organizations think about this? So there's another question. In the Sem declaration, a billion more were promised in the year for the purpose of transportation. This year, 140 million came. kr. Should what was not taken this year be repeated in the last three years, so that we get an increase in the coming years of SEK 1.3 to 1.4 billion? Is that the ambition of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e864	I will be allowed to praise the Workers' Party for the work they have done over a number of years in the form of looking at forms of connection for the transport activities. In this context, it has been decided to convert a number of enterprises into special-law companies. And, as I said in my post, these special-law companies today are almost completely identical to a limited company. What I now see in the debate is that this is also uncertain in this House. That gives us another good reason to clean up and call a spade for a spade. With regard to the question of whether I agree with the proposal, I would say that I agree that making these BAs of public limited liability companies is a more pure organisation in relation to the objectives that they have for the companies. There is no change in the objectives of these businesses by transforming them into public limited liability companies. Contrary to what the Workers' Party has done in recent years by converting some businesses into limited liability companies to privatize them, such as: apply to Telenor, NSB and NSB Gods, where they have opted for partial privatization not later than May of this year, we are now proposing to convert these special law companies and the Swedish Aviation Agency into state limited liability companies, where the State is the owner of the companies. This is a corporate form that people know what is, and that is internationally known. The process is long and has been in progress for a long time. The discussion about whether it should be a special law company or a limited liability company has been going on for many years. And the employees have been inside it before, and they're going into it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e871	I am very pleased with much of what the Council of State put forward here today, because both the Council of State and the Right and the Christian People's Party are now following up a lot of the proposals that the Progress Party has presented this year after year, which have been voted down in the past. Now there have been both AS models and an improvement in the efficiency of the Road Service, and we have got rid of the air passenger charge and a whole series of things that I am not going to bring up here. This is a clear turning point in Norwegian transport. Then the council had a little bit about the way, I think, but she had seen that the committee would have a forced expansion of E6 through Eastfold, and she said that. However, according to the national transport plan – at the weak pace that lies there – still 50 pst. the road remains at the end of the national transport plan period, which is in 2011. The Swedish Council of State has promised that he will have completed his part by 2007. Can the Council of State here in Norway promise that she is doing the same job on her side of the border? So that's another thing. A joint committee has asked for a foraging of the E16 strain virus, both the planning and the development. It has not been mentioned by the Council of State, and then my question is: Will the Council of State follow up what a unanimous committee has said in its position on both the national transport plan and the budget now, and come back with money to a forced expansion of the E16? Or does the Council of State intend, as some media suggest, to move this tribal route to another place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e880	The E6 in Eastfold is a road of great importance to the whole country, as very much of our country's exports are transported along this road. There has been a huge increase in traffic, and there are too many serious traffic accidents on that road that we can only see that this is going to continue. That's why it's my opinion that it's important to support the development of this way, because there are so many who will win at it, and I'll come back to the Stortinget with a proposal on how this can happen. Otherwise, in the case of E16, I have not proposed moving any tribal routes. I do not intend to suggest that the E16 should not be a route. That's why it's important to look at the opportunities we have to meet the challenges that are on this road, like in many other ways. Some measures need to be implemented there. We're going to look at that and present it in the annual budgets. I will also be allowed to comment on something that I did not get in on competition in rail passenger transport. Because when we talked about turning the NSB into a state limited liability company, there was a fear that it would mean privatisation and more accidents on the railway. I am open to further competition in rail passenger transport as well, but I am concerned that we should use the time necessary to implement this in a manner that is sound in relation to road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e890	I'm glad to hear a Minister of Transport who seems sincerely engaged in public transport. We are not disgusted with that in the Committee on Transport, where the government parties have not in any way shown the same commitment that the Council of State has made to this House today. Now the Left in the special situation is that they have the State Council, but they have no representatives in the Committee on Transport. Nevertheless, I have registered that during the process there has been a certain dialogue between the ministry and the government parties, and I want to challenge the Council of State in relation to some proposals that the government parties do not go into. It is about air pollution and the new EEA requirements, where the Workers' Party and SV agree on a proposal that we should investigate and look at what road projects it is that can strengthen our ability to meet these new requirements, and what road projects it is that will weaken our ability to do so. Why can't the government parties be involved in anything like this? I have also registered that the Coastal Party will participate in a dialogue in relation to Oslo Sporveier regarding the purchase of wagon equipment. There was one of the main issues of the Left in the election campaign, and Odd Einar Dørum jumped for the first time by everyone and boasted that even Oddvard Nilsen was in favour of the state now contributing to the purchase of wagon equipment to the Oslo T-Bahn. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on this matter. It surprises me that the Right and Christian People's Party is not involved in this remark. To the end of row 7. The majority comment states that the Directorate of Road and the Directorate of Nature Management will cooperate on the closure of Row 7 of the Hardanger Range. When they disagree, will the Council of State allow this discord to benefit the villain?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e901	I very much appreciate that there is an commitment to the environment and the environmental challenges we are facing in the transport sector, because there is no doubt that the transport sector is a major contributor to local air pollution, and also global issues. When we work on both road projects and rail projects, we need to take into account a number of environmental aspects. That's right, and that's important. Sometimes there will be conflicts that are very difficult to balance with each other. With regard to air pollution, there is a lot of work in that area, both when we look at the transport sector as a whole and not least at the challenges we face in the specific metropolitan areas. That's why it's important that we think collectively at the same time, and maybe in a second, before we think about solutions. Without thinking about collective solutions in big cities, we can't solve the transport problems today. We can't build ourselves out of these problems. I think that's quite a consensus. The air pollution problem is an element we need to bring with us. As for Rv7 and the conflict between wild and people who want to cross the Hardanger range, there is a cooperation that I trust will work. I have confidence that when there's a real conflict, there'll be room to let go of it, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e910	I am pleased that I can start by saying that I am fully in agreement with the Council of State as at the beginning of its article the line below the value of well-developed transport, postal and telecommunications services throughout the country, and stressed that it should be at a reasonable price. I can also join the Council of State in pointing out that there are many challenges in the transport sector. But now, when the Council of State is going to talk a little bit about how to meet some of the challenges, and it comes up with that restructuring and transformation into AS, which is kind of the big solution, we're getting a lot of distinction. What I would like to ask in connection with that particular transformation applies to what the Council of State itself said in its contribution. When the Council of State strongly stressed that when a company is to convert from a special-law company into a limited liability company, there is almost no change. Why in all the world is it necessary to make that change? Would it not be good to have the Post as a Special Law Company and get Section 10 messages to Stortinget at regular intervals? That's the same thing as NSB. Why in all the world should it be necessary to change this when the Council says there won't be any change in the whole thing? And then it was Odd Holten who said in his post that the Council of State has guaranteed that there should not be any worse supply out in the districts with the restructuring that is taking place. I want to challenge the Council of State and confirm that the guarantee has been given, and I also want to ask questions about the basis on which the guarantee is given, and how long such a guarantee is provided by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e921	The fact that restructuring is the big solution is completely wrong. It is part of providing the right framework conditions for these businesses – in part they have good framework conditions, but it is unclear what they really have. When large-scale representatives are not sure of what is in the form of a special-law corporation, they clearly know it with respect to a limited liability company. Then I wonder: why should we then sit with a special law company that no one knows how to govern? After all, we know how to govern a company. When I say it's wrong that this is the big solution, it's because it's the Storting that guarantees through increased appropriations for these sectors. It's the Storting that makes sure we buy services, for example. air navigation services. That way, we get to the goals we have for transportation. The company form is not what determines whether we reach our goals. It is the policy that is being set up in this Chamber that guarantees it. – So I'm going to do my part in that no one is going to get any worse with the new solutions through this corporate form. We still have the opportunity to have Section 10 plans. This does not change with the formation of a share company. We still have the opportunity to intervene in major, important issues affecting these businesses. This possibility won't be gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e932	The Council of State placed great emphasis on the fact that, in the case of the reorganisation of special-law companies into limited-liability companies, it should be to public limited-liability companies. I hope the Council of State feels confident that there is a point of view that all the parties behind this in the setting share in full. I'm not going to demand that she disclose anything from the Government's inner life, but perhaps she could say whether she feels equally confident that the Progress Party has that goal. Then the councils were concerned with the need for a faster expansion of the main entryways into and out of the country, E6 and E18 through Eastfold. I am very pleased with the signals that the Council of State gave, and as I feel is a follow-up to the inspection that she recently had in Eastfold, where she expressed herself so that it was an important goal to get a faster expansion than what is in the plans. And I'm glad the Council of State is warning me to come back to Stortinget with this. But it is in the decision that is to be taken today, in the majority position, an allocation of 10 million. kr to the route Patterød-Jonsten on E6. And if you're going to get faster with the expansion than what's here, you're going to have to take up a new stretch for expansion next year. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport to confirm that she understands that these 10 million. This section of E6 will be taken up to date in 2002, i.e. the money will be used to put the spade in the ground and will also require follow-up in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e945	It's state-owned company we're talking about today. There is no proposal for the privatisation of any of the companies, it is a proposal for the conversion of public limited liability companies. That's what we mean by that. I belong to a party and a government that does not want to double agendas. That is why public limited liability companies are on the agenda today. In the case of E6 in Eastfold, I'll come back to how and how fast we can get to a maintenance of that expansion. It is a process – and the matter will be presented to Stortinget as soon as I have an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e955	The Bondevik government has chosen its place on the political color map: well over on the blue side. In the election campaign, the promises were resolved by the government parties, and almost no case was too large to be promised. The budgetary position is the examination of the policy of the promises, and there we see a lean result. Public transport was a field of activity for all government parties. The working party was blamed for a development of misery that the new government would do something about. Of great words, there was little left. The challenges for public transport are still parked, and instead they have chosen to face the problems of ritual adversities about more market and less community governance. During some evening hours during the committee work, a decision was made to convert the NSB and Posten into AS. The fact that this decision was a little thoughtful indicates that the debate was going on in retrospect. The government has difficulties in justifying such a proposal, but decisions will be taken. In retrospect, there are plans to contact the employees, probably for assistance to obtain the reasons for the decision. There is evidence of poor understanding of democratic processes and of what the word ‘participation’ actually contains. This is easy and difficult to take seriously. The debate today makes me even more embarrassed, because now I have heard that an important reason to turn these companies into AS is that the Stortinget does not know what a special law company is. Thank you for that. A commitment to public transport is a matter of money. It shall not affect the majority of the Committee. The Labour Party has chosen to use the new economic estimates provided by the Government to further strengthen the allocation of public transport in the major cities. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the launch of the Fossil Diagonal in Oslo, so that it can be started as early as possible during the first part of the planning period of the National Transport Plan. This is a first important contribution to taking Groruddalen’s problems seriously. I assume that the Council of State will return to Stortinget with this matter as soon as possible. At the same time, I allow myself to call on the Council of State for further initiatives affecting the Groruddalen. We are talking about 130 000 people who have gradually been reduced in quality of life as a result of various environmental pollution. The state must show clearly that this problem also concerns it. In its position, the majority expressed its satisfaction with the funding for the Bjørvika project for plant start-up during the first planning period. Unfortunately, I have to bear in mind that the Committee could not join the comment of the Workers' Party and SV, where we ask the Government to proceed with the Bjørvika project with a view to a rapid clarification regarding the financing of a fissile layer in which the state, local authorities and private owners cooperate. The Storting decided to build an opera in Bjørvika. The realization of this opera will be a great national building the whole country will be proud of. The Storting must then take seriously the challenge that lies in the fact that the Opera will not be in a crossroads. The Opera is a national monument and a national responsibility. Oslo has to be involved and take her expenses, but it can never be that the plans for Bjørvika end up in chaos because the state does not take its responsibility. During the Committee's work, we were made aware of the availability of mobile telephone systems that are operational for deaf people. This, of course, does not represent a large commercial market and therefore requires a state contribution, whether or not it can be a possible aid in the daily lives of the deaf. The Committee is unanimous in its request to the Ministry to contribute to the access of deaf people in Norway to such mobile text solutions. The Committee has noted in its opinion the importance of effective and effective competition in telecommunications markets in order to ensure all access to high-quality telecommunications services at a reasonable price. It is important to avoid stagnating the development of high-capacity networks and network services. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the Ministry following up the Committee's position on the continuation of work on framework conditions and regulations in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e978	I am pleased that the 2002 transport budget represents an increase in national road investment by 447 million. kr, including the 100 mill. kr with which the Finnish National Road Budget was increased by the Cooperative Government in its additional proposal. Through the agreement on the transport budget, national road investment appropriations increased by a further 11 million. kr. In addition to increasing the appropriations for the road sector, we also need to get more for the funds we already have, or, to put it another way, we need to get more money. The government proposes a comprehensive reorganization of the state road system. The aim of this reform is to generate significant efficiencies. The former Labour Party Government recommended in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 to organise the State Road Service Production Department according to the divisional model. The proposition reads on page 36: ‘A one-sided focus on efficiency can, in isolation, move towards a company model. This includes, among other things: the context in which the framework conditions of a company model will be more similar to the framework conditions applicable to private activities.’.» Statskonsult concludes in the report «More money», 2001:10 that the production department should be organised as a state enterprise or as a limited liability company. They point in particular to the fact that the divisional model is not to be recommended because of the risk of cross-subsidisation. This may in turn lead to complaints to the ESA — EFTA Surveillance Authority. Thus, in the proposals of the Labour Party Government, the views of the State Consultant have not been taken into account. The divisional model proposed by the Workers' Party implies that the Production Department continues to be part of the Road Administration of the State. This model is poor because the State Road Administration will continue to manage both the building and construction role under the same administration. Nor does the divisional model ensure a legal distinction between these two roles. In choosing an organisational model, the cooperative government has taken into account the objectives of the Sem-Declaration on getting more money. The Cooperative Government considers that this is best achieved by separating the production department of the State Road Administration as a separate State limited liability company. A limited liability company is the model capable of ensuring a real similarity in terms of a level playing field between the production department and the private operators acting in the same civil engineering market. The main advantages of the AS model are that it ensures a legal distinction between the State Road Service as a builder and the manufacturing department that builds up, and that the State Road Service will be able to clean up the construction role. The government will return, at the latest, to the revised national budget for spring, when the transformation into a limited liability company will take place. When setting up a limited liability company, the company must not be given an opening balance sheet that is too favourable, nor must the company be awarded in advance too many functional contracts as birth aid. As far as the administrative department is concerned, there will be a decentralisation of tasks from the Directorate of Road to five regional offices and from the regions to the local units. It is estimated that it is possible to reduce the number of employees in the government by approx. 1 000 annual works, and further reference is made to the possibility of decentralising 400 to 800 annual works. This will result in less bureaucracy and more roadways.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1010	In the transport debate last year, I had a debate with the Labour Party about how far into the ditch they would drive Norwegian traffic before they were willing to turn around. How badly would they operate everything before they realized that government conduct and operation was a faulty grip? Last year we know, and the answer is still the same this year, well supported by the other socialists, SV and the Central Party. The centre party has now chosen a page completely public, but fortunately, the centre party's influence has been reduced for the first time in recent times to near zero. The socialist side of Norwegian commerce is finally timbered together, but now in a minority. In the future, it will be exciting to see how the Advance Party's previous proposal to allow users to choose, whether the express buses are going to drive where they want to, and whether they are now allowed to open their doors so that passengers and customers can get on the buses. We open up competition on the rail track, for offers in ferry traffic, and for the Road Administration itself to compete for its tasks. The last protected state monopolies are now on the decline. Today, no one is missing the NRK monopoly or the old Telecom monopoly. We just have to hope that the reverse operation goes as fast as possible, because the savings potential is enormous, and the transport sector needs money. Once again, however, we regret to note that we have a deplorable budget for culture. Then I think about the road sector. Of the total domestic transport, road transport accounts for around 85 pst. by passenger transport and for 50 pst. of the carriage of goods. The rest – approximately – of the freight goes on a boat. The railway, which is the big bet area also this time, stands for 8 pst. So it's certainly time for us now to transfer the transport from road to track, and for us to form an NSB AS, so that we can let others take over the control there. If road transport had been operated in accordance with the same state principles as the NSB operates today, salmon exports to Europe would well have become a form of excavator salmon. The rate of investment in the main road network is generally gone — even this time. We don't have any options. The only thing is that the bomb charges are increasing. Now they've come up to an incredible amount of NOK 2.2 billion. In addition, we have the world's highest charges for car and car use. It's a concern that the state will take in well over 40 billion kroner on cars and car use, and then the budget is of poor 11 billion kroner. It is for the total operation of roads, maintenance of roads and investment in the road sector. That's approximately equal to that. One-fourth. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal for an increase in the strain viruses of a total of DKK 1.4 billion. In addition, we have a divided frame plus 800 million. kr. And apart from that, we have said that over the foreign budget, we are willing to spend NOK 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1028	The 2002 Transport Budget is the first budget to be covered by the Stortingen National Transport Plan. The adopted plan provides clear leadership in relation to Norwegian transport policy for the years to come. Major objectives include increased efforts on public transport in order to increase road safety and improve environmental policy and increased efforts on good and efficient communications in rural areas to reduce distance congestion and to facilitate the possibility of living and living in District Norway and ensuring value creation. What, then, does the majority of the Committee on Transport intend to do ten months after the transport plan has been dealt with? First of all, it's moving in at 15 million. on a transport budget which in most areas does not meet the objectives of the transport plan action programme. That's about. a per million of the budget. The money is taken from the railway, which has already come out very badly. Only 60 pst. of the proposed appropriations for railway infrastructure are carried out in the budget of the year. Why, then, is the majority of railway investment cutting? Secondly, one-way traffic is to be investigated at the Fauske centre. The main road and the Strandgata shall be one way. How many people in the staging room know about traffic in the center of Fauske? How many of the members of the Committee on Transport do that? One of the members. I have nothing against the fact that the state is committed to solving traffic problems at the centre of Fauske. But there should be a limit to detail management by Stortinget. In addition, the municipality in question should have been informed in advance. The rapporteur in Fauske was uninformed about the matter, and at the NRK he said that he doubted whether one-way driving was a good solution for the Fauske Centre. Thirdly, the major political grips — the conversion of the Aviation Agency, Posten BA, NSB BA, Statens vägsvesen production part and the Coastal Agency to AS and the competitive deployment of rail passenger transport. This represents, in total, a comprehensive exemption and liberalisation of Norwegian transport policy – less popular governance, more market governance. The way in which this liberalisation of Norwegian transport policy is addressed in Stortinget is strongly criticised. Such an important case for Norwegian transport is excluded from normal political treatment. There is no impact assessment, no democratic consultation process, the employees’ organisations are not consulted – and they represent several thousand employees – the case is not dealt with as a separate matter for the Stortinget, it is done after the principle decision has been taken. The matter becomes particularly serious when we know that the Swedish Aviation Agency has investigated what the future form of connectivity should be. The Management Board has not recommended AS for practical and economic reasons. The Swedish Aviation Agency wants a freer form of connectivity than they have today, yes, but they have recommended state companies at the Governing Board meeting on 17 October. I have seen in the newspaper that there are members of the Committee on Transport who did not know about it. In the investigation underpinning the recommended solution, mention is made, inter alia, of:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The Swedish Aviation Agency is the authority’s tool – read: Stortinget – and the government’s desire for strong sectoral policy governance of State infrastructure responsibility, i.e. the commercial policy company can go bankrupt state companies ensure a more favourable debt financing for the Swedish Aviation Agency In the case of the State Road Service, which is also dealt with today, it is the case that they can demonstrate that the AS form will be more expensive for the country and for the taxpayers. Reorganisation to division will be a better, more flexible and more appropriate form of operation. No country on this land has chosen the AS as its mode of operation for its roads, with the exception of New Zealand and a few other countries. And the few countries that have tried are about to go back. In a newspaper article, a senior researcher at Nordlandsforschung, Paul Olav Berg, has asked questions about the release of state agencies at the expense of social considerations. He writes, among other things: that, from a historical perspective, exemption implies a breach of the logic behind the development of the land-based service and welfare services of the welfare society and that the efficiency idea behind the exemption requires that the exempted companies place greater emphasis on market considerations than on social considerations. Paul Olav Berg, in his article Stortinget, calls for a debate on which companies are suitable for exemption and which are not suitable, and for a preliminary analysis to be made of the consequences of the more liberal companies operating on market premises, not least in a scattered country such as Norway. It's important that this happens in advance and not afterwards. It's harder to repair. It is quite right – I fully agree with Paul Olav Berg – that we must take the debate ahead of us and not afterwards, as the majority puts it. I'm referring to the scientist, I'm referring to the Swedish Aviation Agency, and I'm referring to the State Road Service, which gives us every good reason to take this debate in a completely different way from what has been done. Unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity, the majority chose to cooperate with the Progress Party, which did not want that form of debate – but they were not forced. The other batches wanted a different treatment. In addition to the fact that SV has prioritised a clear environmental profile in our draft budget, as Heidi Sørensen has explained, we also have a clear district profile. We have proposed 30 pst. lower flight prices on the short-haul network. For the population and business in the District of Norway, travel costs by aircraft represent a large distance disadvantage. By proposing a significant price reduction on the short-haul network, we give priority to those travellers who generally do not have other alternatives, and those who have the highest travel costs. I regret that we have not received support for the proposal for a significant price reduction on the short-distance network. We have proposed increasing the framework for racial protection by 110 million. kr. It is almost a doubling of the effort in relation to the Government's proposals. Racial protection measures are a very important part of transport investment in District Norway, where the safety of the population and the promotion of transport for business are heavily affected by racial road sections. Both as a safety and affluence problem, racial hazards can be a contributing factor in the relocation from districts and the centralisation of business. The Racial Protection Action Plan, which forms the basis of the Transport Plan, states that it must invest DKK 2 billion for racial protection in the period up to 2003. The national racial protection group, consisting of representatives of the most at risk, believes that meeting the overall need to race the public road network will cost DKK 15 billion over a ten-year period. I have now presented parts of SV's alternative budget. We have given priority to the environment, and we have given priority to rural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1070	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have placed the Christian People's Party strongly in the focus of this debate. We waited and accepted it, assuming that there has been an explicit strategy from the same parties to challenge the Christian People's Party. We understand that the Workers' Party is not prospering in the opposition. We understand that the Center Party has put itself in a position without influence, and that SV won the election, but lost its influence in Stortinget. There have been many calls for cooperation in the debate with us, but the reality of the negotiations was that the Workers' Party and SV would like the Progress Party to speak in accordance with the patterns of other committees to give the Cooperation Government any new defeat in budgetary terms. There is little time for repetition. The Christian People's Party wants, like everyone else in this room, to have more efficient means of transport and, as much as possible, to return to the state's use of money for transport. The transformation of Post BA, NSB BA and the Aviation Administration into State limited liability companies is therefore part of a long-term work aimed at ensuring that society regains more of the resources used in the transport sector. This also includes, of course, ensuring the best possible provision of transport for the districts. The Christian People's Party is not in favour of privatising these companies, as the opposition in this room, in my opinion, has unisontly driven disinformation in the media about. It has to be 100 pst. State-owned limited liability companies. It is a sunny premise that the State should continue to have control, that the services should be nationwide and that prices should be competitive. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that it must be possible to operate more efficiently than today. Our objective is more efficient services while ensuring that everyone benefits from the services. In order to achieve this, we believe it is necessary to give these companies a freer position to take the necessary decisions within the framework set by the Stortinget. After the changes that have occurred in the laws of the BA companies in recent years, one has to look with a microscope in my opinion to find the differences in relation to AS. I also refer to what the Council of State said in its statement. The country purchases passenger transport services from the NSB. The extent of this purchase is essential for the quality of the offer to passengers. Government purchases have increased sharply in the adopted budget, and we are likely to face further increases in future budgets, because the objective of the Co-operation Government is a strong increase in public transport. The co-operation administration will pursue an offensive collective policy with increased offers and lower prices for users. We want to facilitate access to create express buses, and we want to work actively at lower air fares. This is in accordance with the intentions of the Sem Declaration. For the Post, the concession requirement remains that the entire country should have the provision of universal postal services at reasonable price and quality. The budget agreement also provides for a call for tenders for national road hauliers, but here we have had some pilot projects to be evaluated before new sections are put on the market. It is the state that buys the ferry services on the national road network, and if the state can get more for each holiday crown, the coast will also benefit in terms of more money for other areas of activity. The decision on the outsourcing of the ferries requires a change in the law, and this case will therefore come back to Stortinget. The budget agreement with the Progress Party shows a direction, and the changes should not, of course, be made overnight. The employees are the principal resources of the enterprise and are, of course, to be involved in the process. Reorganisation and conversion require that all employees be included in close and good cooperation. Reorganisation shall be thoroughly prepared and submitted to the Storting before final decision. The aim of the conversion is more and cheaper transport for users in all parts of the country. So I'd like to say a little bit about maritime transport, which is important for the economic development of large parts of the country. Seaborne transport of passengers and in particular goods has great environmental advantages. The Christian People's Party will prioritise investments in and updates of fairways, brands and lighthouses to increase safety in maritime transport. Investments also need to facilitate maritime transport to increase its market share, especially in freight transport. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the progress plan for moving the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund is being maintained, and that one is well in the process of establishing the production unit in Kabelvåg. Once we start such a large process, it may be natural to carry out a wider review of the work and organization of the Coastal Plant. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees with the Government that the transformation of the Coastal Works into management companies will not take place from 1 January 2002. The ferries are essential for maintaining and increasing activity in Coast Norway. Cooperation management will therefore strengthen ferry services through improved capacity, increased frequency, night trips and reduced ferry tariffs. The use of gas in the ferries sector has great environmental advantages, and in the Christian People's Party we are therefore committed to undertaking the contracting of natural gas in the context of which it is appropriate. In the Christian People's Party, we are also pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to present a plan for a museum solution for Norwegian guys during 2002. There are plans for a Norwegian Light Museum as a network solution located to four coastal municipalities, and in the Christian People's Party we are pleased that the Government will come back with this matter during the next year. The events of 11 September made it necessary to further assess safety measures in the navigation systems. The GPS satellite navigation system is vulnerable, and the dramatic events in New York and Washington have updated the question of a ground-based back-up system. There are clear indications that the Loran C ground-based navigation system in the United States has regained confidence as a back-up system for GPS. England has indicated an interest in participation in NELS cooperation, and the Ministry indicates that they will come back with further information on the further development of the case. It may seem that our criticism of the hasty decision of the Stoltenberg government to withdraw from the Loran C agreement is now proving justified. This is evident from the majority comment, where the Workers' Party's fraction is also involved in stressing that in the future it may appear that the Loran C station in Bø will be maintained. We trust that the Ministry will follow up this majority comment in the vote, and that Norway, which has the leadership of the NELS Committee, will follow developments closely and actively to ensure that we do not lag behind in this area. I would particularly like to point out what is also stated in the remark, that we have to take care of the employees at the institution in Bø, and that we have to make sure that the equipment is upgraded and the building mass is taken care of. The Government is in favour of removing the air passenger charge from 1 April 2002 and from the same date the Government proposes that passenger traffic in the air should no longer be included in the VAT system. In total, it means fees for the airlines of more than NOK 1 billion. However, I would like to stress that we have not finished lowering the flight prices by removing the passenger fee. We are facing formidable challenges in terms of bringing down air fares, both on the regional grid and on the main route network. I have full confidence that the Government will focus strongly on this area in the year that is now ahead of us. I also expect the Department to work further on the matter, and that we can eventually find a solution to bring down the high air fares, especially in North Norway. Finally, in my post I would like to mention one project because I was challenged by SV, and this concerns Lofoten's mainland connection, a project that, in my opinion, has been in this house for too long. I am therefore pleased that a large majority of the committee now wishes to put this matter on the table as soon as possible. And I stand by what I have said to Lofotposten: we make fun of ourselves if we take another fight, as SV will, on a matter that has been going on in this house for too long already. The project is half finished, and it ends in a mountain wall. And it's got several big business decisions behind it. As far as the twelve bird species are concerned, we have just put in a long tunnel so that these bird species can survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1104	In the budget debate this year, the majority have signalled a change in the price before transport. Unfortunately, the changes are not about increasing bets, but about giving up the possibility to political governance. The sem-mates are in the pocket of the Progress Party, and the Christian People's Party has made a complete reversal of their positions under Bondevik I. At that time, we talked about camels being a favorite food, but now it must be piggy – anti-hair! Jan Sahl tried to explain himself, and I have only registered that. Politics is the ‘art of what is possible’, called it before. It's an equivalent expression today. Privatisation, postponing competition and company shares are the solution in our time before transportation, one should listen to the plurality. The settlement document was unannounced, corked for them added or for others, cooked in a little afternoon. The growing frustration between employees, who have been and are in organisational processes over the years, is understandable. Document No 8:12 is a proposal from the Progress Party to allow several private operators on the railway network. This is a repeat of proposals made by members of the Progress Party in the previous period. The Committee uses the same reasoning for its comments this time as it did. There is already an opening to competition on the track today when it comes to freight traffic. But the plurality of the committee, the Right and the Advance Party, plus the Christian People's Party this time, thinks that the process of full release is too late. The same majority have given the same wording as Document No in the budget agreement. 8:12 has in it. All batches have indicated in their comments that safety and track capacity must be in place first. In reply, the Council of State gave the floor when it concerns Document No. 8:12, that the entries made in the national transport plan 2002–2011, St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, and Innst. S No 119 for 2000–2001, still to be considered. And in that question, it's called a bond. «from the Ministry of Transport for the first time to extend the rules on access to the track to authorised railway undertakings wishing to carry out freight transport operations on sections where there is no capacity on the network». The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party support this. The strange thing about the whole thing is that the government party no longer supports its own government council and shares its vision. All political parties follow developments in Europe in the railway field. England has tried privatization. Disclaimer and powdering is the result. The train went faster in the early 1900s. The confidence in the railway is gone, and traffic traffic is falling sharply. There they have reverted to the old solution. The state had to enter and save the stumps by putting the company under administration. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that we should first have a broader background of experience in freight transport, which is much more international, before we go further on the idea of doing the same thing before the passenger traffic here to land. Norway is as well-known both long-distance and pig-grown. Everything cannot be driven by the principle of being a store. Some of us are also thinking about district policy. I believe that the rapporteurs will comment on their position, but will only inform the House that the decision is based on the fact that the matter is included in the Minutes. Within the railway chapter of this year's budget proposal, we find a sharp increase in all areas, more for investment in the line, more for the purchase of services. The increase is at a total of 667 million. kr on the railway chapter. After the treatment of the national transport plan, the railway would now have a lift. Runtime and running instructions are many places very old, almost out of date. All parties, except the Advance Party and the Right, didn't mean to bet like the plural would, that time either. The only difference is that now they've got a Christian People's Party, which has made a quantum leap in terms of betting on the railway, by going in alliance with those parties that politically have not shown a willingness to bet on the railway. The representative Svendsen put words on it in a previous article. I don't think about the 15 million in the first place. kr as the majority has cut, but more on the signals the same multiple sends out to meet the frame during the four-year period that we are now in. The working party finds reason to recall what was given by the signal in the Sem statement, where it says that a plot to increase the permissions of the railway works. It didn't start very well, first year with a cut. Railways must be far stronger than they are at present on the road as a freight transport operator on the long distances. We must in the long term have a level playing field for all those who are engaged in freight transport. That's why it's important that we get the freight terminals built on the line at Leangen and Gandal. That's why it's important that we get multiple crossing tracks, and that tunnels get broken to take international containers. Development of hub stations and reduction of railway crossings will increase safety and speed up. Similarly, I would like to mention the bet on double tracks on the sections that are currently bottlenecks, Sandvika-Asker in particular, but also the continuation of the Vestfold track, to get the effect of the funds already invested and to get a time gain. Then the plural has also commented on the route Rørosbanen – Dovrebanen, which is in a way a double track to Trondheim. Can it be better exploited? Rail has been given a lot of new train equipment in recent years. I am of those who run a lot of trains and hear how positive the passengers refer to this. In addition, NSB has been assisted in its marketing since 11 September. No one slips over that event, but more people have got the eye out that it's good by rail. Nor can we solve the cities' traffic challenges by just building more roads. We must strengthen all hamstrung transport. That's where the key is to solve the collective action. Transportation is an area all more occupied by outside this house than inside. I would like to have the opportunity to comment on Rv 7 and Rv 50, two highways east-west – the one between Buskerud and Hordaland and the other between Buskerud and Sogn and Fjordane. Row 7 is controversial, for example: due to the wild reindeer strain. It has the least regularity. We have to take advantage of the ferry, and it has the greatest challenges in terms of security. All parties, except SV, are in favour of bridging and coming winter. Rv 50, which was proposed by the government of Stoltenberg, has the best regularity. It's ferry-free, it costs less and it's finished with tunnels, so the safety is much bigger and the clean barrier is out of the way. It must, together with the road offices, find the means. Symbolically, the two counties are also among those that have been reduced frames. According to the head of the road in Buskerud, a whole new practice has been introduced here. The Labour Party and the Centre Party have a minority comment on the equal treatment of the two national roads. The right-hand rapporteur in Hol used big words about his or her settings when he or she knew about them. He understands how important this journey is if not the upper Hallingdal will be a snowy ridge. We're talking about Norway's largest travel region. The agreement with E-CO Hydropower to take over the road free of charge against winter breakage is undermined. There's probably going to be a trial. Row 7 with its three possibilities of crossing the crossroads to the west has come back into focus after the Council of State has signaled that it will look again at complementary tribal routes. Hallingdal has after the Vegvesen his own number 74 pst. of traffic. As a representative of this region, I am pleased with what the Council of State has said. Political decisions on road choices and the will to run then have failed. I just call the word Hemsedal, and call it chaos. They're the ones who got the pressure. Then Hallingdal will finally get his regional train on the rails that, as soon as possible, the committee has said. Users are waiting for it to be delayed. Bus for trains on such long distances works bad. The car use will be the result. Finally, I am glad that there is money coming in to plan the double bridge on the E18 through the Drammen, that the Drammenspakket is being preserved, and that noise protection is being selected in Lier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1159	Are the airports an important part of the infrastructure in our country? Will the NSB meet societally important objectives in which regional, distribution, environmental and employment concerns are to be taken into account? Should the services performed by the Post today still be a state responsibility? Will there still be a goal to secure as much as possible access to this service at equal price across the country? In this area, the Center Party is a yes-party. The central party's answer to all these questions is yes. The main question when it comes to the form of organisation for aviation, rail and mail is to secure an organisation that allows political governance. We know the positions of the Progress Party and the Right. They have another calendar. They have never hidden that they want to reduce government control. Nor have they hidden the fact that they want more postponing competition and privatisation, and that they have it as a target in areas by region. But this is one of the fields where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party until now have been united, just enough with shades of vision, for example. in the degree of state governance. Nevertheless, there has been a sketch in this room that has gone along the big lines. Then come the Christian People's Party now and let yourself be overcounted in a late night hour to historical changes. In a case that can be followed by so many communities, which can be followed by 30,000 added, the Christian People's Party changes vision overnight. They are not even concerned with gaining experience from other countries, although they must have heard that experience has mixed, even in countries with a different and, in the beginning, better geography than ours. I am surprised that they are not even obliged to have an explanation in such important matters as this. If they're not interested in it, they might be willing to look at the consequences of the reorganisation of the NRK, because it's precisely the case that Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and a number on the Stortinget say that the Storting should not interfere with the government, because the NRK is now a corporation. Let me say that I understand that someone will ask questions about the postponement of competition or privatisation as a solution in areas that are so heavily dependent on satisfied customers. But I have to admit that it is not always helpful to the customers or efficiency that has stood at the height of all these companies. But is the solution then to postponing competition and privatization – which I am very concerned that the Christian People's Party in new nighttimes quickly allowed itself to be overcounted? Why shouldn't they, when they've just started moving stones in this case? Rather, the answer must be to set clearer policy objectives and to set requirements for the delivery of these enterprises, rather than to reorganise towards greater demands for profitability and business-economic considerations, as we know is the case with the law on limited liability companies. If they don't want to listen to the Center Party, maybe they could listen to a former right-wing magnification representative, i.e. Wenche Lowzow, in an interview in the book Livesmot, recently published. She has settled on Haugastøl and says, as it is stated: «NSB and Posten are old management companies that were supposed to feed the whole population. Now it's just about tidying up money.Before the post is due, we don't know how long it's gonna last. It is a social task to provide for those who live in the districts. We can't depopulate the districts. I didn't think even the Center Party was doing a good enough job in this field. The solidarity of the people is lacking.’ Perhaps it's not surprising that the Christian People's Party is turning around here, with the budget they've already contributed to. I'm still asking them to reconsider if it's not too cheap to sell so much change for 10 million. kr more to Eastfold, which they could have got anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1179	Today's debate shows that it is so far in the field of transport policy that we see most clearly the new political course announced by the Bondevik Government in its declaration of accession. However, the new course does not mean that there will now be significantly more road construction or higher railway investments, such as all those who bump into queues on many of our most stressed road sections or experience the delays on the railway, had expected after the criticism that came when the Stoltenberg government presented its budget. This course change remained on the paper in the Sem statement. In these areas, it must be borne in mind that the predecessor’s proposal was perhaps good enough and meant a significant increase in both road and rail appropriations. The new approach is to structural changes in key instruments of transport policy, such as the NSB, the Road Administration, the Aviation Administration and the Post, which the Committee’s chairman also highlighted in its intervention at the start of the debate. Here companies shall become limited-liability companies and competition shall be introduced on the rail track. This involves changes that give greater openness to fragmentation, reorganisation and transfer of tasks to companies outside public ownership control, and that will have one consequence, namely less political governance and less opportunities to achieve overall societal objectives in the field of transport policy. The whole point of the form of a limited liability company is to give companies greater freedom of action. The point is that the current decisions are to be taken a step away from political bodies. There may be good reasons for this, for example: for the Post, if they are to face increasing competition from other actors. But then, as the speakers from the majority try to do here today, you can't pretend that we can just as easily rule through the demands made in concessions, etc. Shareholders mean that greater emphasis should be placed on business considerations, and that in turn means that social considerations need to give way more strongly. Let's compete on the railways, where these parties seem to think that the problem, for example. on the Eastfold line can be solved by the fact that several companies will compete for the customers. For all of us who have had many and varied experiences on the Eastfold course over a few years, there is no lack of NSB becoming AS, or more Swedish cars. The missing is a double track throughout the county and a new double track between Ski and Central Railway Station. This is what will give us a train offer without delay, with shorter travel time and a timetable whose main function is not to measure the delay. There is a need for much road in our long-term country for business and housing purposes. For almost 80 pst. Of all transport going in and out of Norway, it is because of our country’s geography that it has to pass through Eastfold on E6 and E18. Nearly eight out of ten cars on these roads are transit traffic. It is tribal roads that are as important for the fishing trails from More as for the trails with paper from Peterson in Moss. Traffic growth has been 66 pst. Since 1993, much stronger than the country as a whole. The development of the four-field road has now started with toll financing. The problem, however, is that with the plans that we adopted, it will take so long to finish this 62-kilometre road that the bombs will be taken down before the road is finished. I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State has given today that the E6 needs to be developed more quickly, and that she will come back to Stortinget with a plan for this. But it is important that the tens of millions granted today by the majority are seen as an appropriation to open the section Patterød-Jonstein for the next harvest. It is the key for E6 to be ready in 2008-2009, which is the fastest practicable. Therefore, these millions must not be allowed to boil away in a bureaucratic argument about what the Stortinget has meant. The development of this road section was an important theme of the election campaign in Eastfold, and all parties made their central politicians express a great deal of understanding of its importance. Farthest of all went the Right Leader, Jan Petersen, who said it would not be on the Right. But then the Bondevik government laid out its budget by 100 million. kr more on the road, this route was not prioritised. The progress party had ‘roadshow’ as late as November, and explained that only they could sort it out, it was going to be faster. The advance party could secure 35 million. kr more for the development of both E6 and E18 next period if they had chosen to cooperate with the Workers' Party, but it was more important to secure companies in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1205	Today's position represents a marked change in the course of Norwegian transport policy, not because the majority suddenly realizes completely new proposals, as some claim, but because a new majority in Stortinget raises previous minority proposals and thus sets out a new course – after which it must be properly navigated. The focus is, of course, on the formation of limited liability companies in air, mail and air. However, in principle, there are also majority proposals for competition and therefore for tenders in national road ferries. This proposal was justified and promoted as a private proposal during the previous period by, inter alia, me and the current committee leader. At the time, the proposal was defeated. The competition aspect and the tendering principle were positively highlighted by the Workers' Party in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National transport plan. Reference is made to Møreforsking, which has followed the tests in the 1990s, and which reports on quality improvements and measures them out in economic savings of more than 60 million. kr-class. It is right that the winners of the competitions are per. The first year of testing could not indicate full achievement of the target, where, in addition to quality improvement, a total of 13 pst was also to be achieved. reduction in operating costs. However, the experience was so positively described by the Workers' Party in the context of the National Transport Plan that today's majority proposals should have been given a majority at the time it was promoted by the Right and the Progress Party in the Innst. S. No 119 for 2000-2001 on the same national transport plan. In today's budgetary position, the Workers' Party is taking a visible step back in relation to St.meld. No 46 with regard to competition in national road ferries. This is done in a joint comment with SV and the Centre Party, where the minority reduces the efficiency potential by referring selectively to the treatment of St.meld. No 46, while these parties already anticipate a dreaded monopoly situation. So the majority today decide that national road ferries will be put off for competition. The majority would like this to be carried out as contracts expire, and the majority would, of course, take into account the experience gained from the tests carried out, as stated in the suspension. The majority also ask the Government to come to Stortinget with a final proposal on specified premises for the competitive launching of national road ferries. In view of the described and long process up to today’s decision, and in addition to the premises set out to introduce a new policy, it becomes equally unreasonable when more people will talk about political ideas with effect overnight. It also blows a certain wind of change over the fisheries minister's portfolio. In the course of the process, the budget has been subject to Chapter changes allowing the Production Department of the Coastal Plant to become a management company. At the same time, the majority has indicated the need for further assessment of the Coastal Agency's organisation, and thus also requested that the establishment of management companies should not be implemented from 1 January 2002. In any case, the Coastal Directorate is on the move to Ålesund, in accordance with the previous decision of the Storting. Unfortunately, the moving car was not paid by Stoltenberg, which has also offered budgetary challenges. We note that the Workers' Party has recognized this great weakness in St.prp. No 1 and thus supports the redisposal of the Government in order to remedy it. At the same time, Chapter 20 million is administered. kr in addition to the previous government proposal. This was necessary in relation to the declared support for safe fairway policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1222	Road debates engage, and let me stress that a decent road and rail network is crucial both for the construction and for the continued functioning of a business in the districts. And there is still a need for significant funds before these requirements are met. I think that all the parties here in the hall could want more funds for roadblocks, that's what we're talking about in all the election campaigns, even in the last one. But then we have to give priority. The Stoltenberg government increased the transport budget by 1.3 billion kroner distributed by road and rail. And Bondevik suggested a symbolic increase, not in the vicinity of what these parties promised in the election campaign. Unfortunately, Hordaland has no members in the Committee on Transport, but I am not surprised that there is no one on the Hordaland bench from the Right and Christian People's Party in the Chamber today, until there were enough promises they made to many in the election campaign that they will defend what is happening in the budget today. And it's probably hard for Lions from the Christian People's Party to defend this so-called bet. I think well of his promises, and so do the voters, too, about the big stakes on public transport, more spacious bus offers osb. I don't think there is any party that has such a great distance between promises and actual promises to goals that the Christian People's Party has. What makes the debate on transport very special today is that the Christian People's Party against what they have promised in the past was pressured by the Progress Party to turn the NSB, the Post and the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited company – and the national road ferries are to be put out for competition. The Christian People's Party got the Prime Minister, and the Right and the Advance Party got to shape the policy, and it hasn't been hard to see here in the debate today that many right-wing politicians think they've done a great job. I understand that. But there's probably a lot of people out there asking why it's being done at this rate. Do these parties believe that the provision will be improved, that efficiency will be improved? And if the Christian People's Party believed that this is for the benefit of the districts, if they really thought that the supply would be better, then at least I thought they could take the time to settle the matter, they would take on board – all the time for a restructuring that they believed in. But this has happened in late-night hours, for it did not tolerate the light of day. And there aren't many local politicians from the Christian People's Party who have been out there defending this structural change, and I don't think we can find that either. For many years it has been our great political desire from all parties, I believe, that when it comes to gas, one should use it to make it better both for the environment and not least for industry. We have a ferry that goes on gas in More and Romesdal, and it's got good results. Now the ferry state of Hordaland must also have such gas ferries. I ask the Minister for Transport to address this, so that the purely economic arguments may have to give way a little in order to use gas for the environment, and so that industrial policy can also develop further in relation to the further development of our natural resource. Finally, we have a ferry connection in Hordaland, which was proposed. It's the ferry link Hjellestad-Klockarvik. And there are two islands, Lerøy and Bjelkarøy, together with 70-80 inhabitants who have this ferry connection as the only option to travel to the mainland. These must be offered. In the committee setting, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre ensure that this connection should be maintained. I don't know what happened, but the government party wasn't involved. The Right Oddvard Nilsen has gone out and said that this is guaranteed to be maintained, and it seems to me to be very nice, because the most important thing is that the case is resolved. So I ask the Council of State to confirm that this is going to happen, because it's not enough to solve it through the West Revy and some local viewers. I ask the Council of State to find a solution, and that these two islands be given an alternative before the ferry is closed. If Oddvard Nilsen and Right had their wishes for exemption implemented, we might not be able to rescue this holiday rental by political decisions in Stortinget. I'm glad we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1239	Government parties have put in place important building blocks for a better transport policy in Norway in their position on the 2002 state budget. The aim is effective communication which determines transport users' needs and ability to pay. The means are better organisational structure and competitive outsourcing. Organisational development shall be more user-oriented. It is in this objective, user-friendliness, that the restructuring should be judged. The outsourcing shall not allow transport undertakings and management bodies a quality reference to which policy-driven plans can be measured. Therefore, the Sem Declaration has placed a decisive emphasis on competitive exposure as a tool for ensuring users transport services where frequency, punctuality, comfort and price set the standard. When we have a situation where a train passenger carried from Fredrikstad/Sarpsborg area to Oslo, two of Norway's densely populated areas, is a business-economic burden for the railway and not a source of income, then all warning lights in Transport-Norway's instrument panel should flash intensely red. The time has come to examine the organisation and look at transport policy assumptions. The Government Parties will transform the NSB, the Swedish Aviation Agency, the Post and the Vegvesen Production Department into public limited-liability companies. We choose the form of a limited liability company rather than a state enterprise because we believe that an AS is more flexible, which gives the clearest form of organisation legally. As regulated by the Share Act, limited liability companies are predictable actors with clear responsibilities. It is important not least because external companies, public and private, then know which assumptions apply. AS is a known form of company to which it is easy to relate. Of course, the working conditions of employees are an important part of the debate on corporate forms. The form of a limited liability company is very similar to that of a State enterprise. The Labour Environment Act and the Labour Dispute Act regulate labour law issues. The participation and management representation of employees are set out in the Share Act. Thus, employees' interests should have been safeguarded even after a new form of connection. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right will compete to control efficiency and to prevent the waste of taxpayers' and users' resources. Competition on rail and roads and offers on national road transport will provide us with a necessary measure of health, public housekeeping and user protection against unbuyable prices. Irrational organisation and poor financial management are the seventh and last passengers, letterwriter, telephone and Internet users who have to bleed for. With great boldness, it is claimed that public limited liability companies will prevent political governance. That's not right. It shall be governed by concessional treatment, it shall be governed by the purchase of services, and the necessary political governance and consideration of fundamental issues that are important for social development has also been ensured by the specific provisions of the Share Act for State owned AS. The provision safeguarding the interests of the State relates in particular to two mechanisms: it is the general meeting, i.e.: the Council of State, which elects the Governing Board. Secondly, Section 10 of the Statute states that all important political aspects of the operation may be required to be submitted to the Council of State. As a result, only reluctant state councils stand in the way of active control of companies — and the unwilling state councils are known as none of them in the Bondevik government. It has been claimed that the Government Parties’ proposals on the form of association and the outsourcing of competition have been decided during the night, without taking into account the interests of their employees. This isn't right either. The establishment of public limited-liability companies has been assessed on several occasions in the past. In the case of outsourcing, this is part of the consumer protection that permeates the entire Semi-Declaration. It is up to elected bodies to take decisions that are important for social development, as in this case with the organisation of administrative bodies and public companies. We're going to take the time that's needed, and we're going to do it in a reassuring way, but let's not doubt that the goal is fixed. Having said that, I would like to add that the employees should of course be actively involved in the transformation process. In fact, one does not have to belong to the political left to understand that employee involvement will be necessary and useful to find good solutions. Employees represent the most important input of the administration and the provision of services — without their involvement we get nothing started and nothing done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1261	I must almost thank the last speaker for an interesting rate of exchange in the excellence of the limited companies. It's almost that the Business School should hire him in as a guest lecturer the next time the students learn something about this. That is the debate that is going on in structural terms, which is interesting here today. For one thing, we can beat each other in the head with who has a few million more than the other batches of various projects, but here there's little difference, and that's probably not what's most interesting. In this context, you can say that what seems to be quite clear is that the government and government parties are the ones that promise the most and keep the least. At least then, you are consistent – and you have to be consistent, because that's a good thing. But that is what is at stake in the structure that is important in this debate. I listened to the Minister of Transport instead – and with all due respect: it becomes almost a little comical when the Council of State accuses the Workers' Party of being afraid of change, and is produced as if we do not want to renew the public sector. I do not believe that those who were employed in the Telework and who were through that conversion, believe that the Workers' Party was afraid of change. I do not believe that those who are currently employed in hospitals, who are now undergoing severe reform, will agree that the Workers' Party is opposed to change in the public sector. So it's completely wrong. And it's not like we're in principle opposed to a share company – it's not like that at all. I don't know if it's BA, state enterprise, management company or corporation that's the most high-value form of governance here, but what we're responding to is how it's done. It's not a mess of serious handling when you sit down in a room in the dark and find out that now you're going to do all this to AS just by a pen stroke. The representative Sahl, I think it was, said this was part of a long-term work to improve Norwegian transport policy. It can't be so very long-term when you just suddenly found it and suddenly decided it, without having dialogue with the employees, without having dialogue with the users and without having dialogue with the municipalities and counties that could get their offer worse because of the decision that is now being taken. I want to talk a little bit about aviation. I think it is important to realize how important aviation really is in Norway. We're in a country that's very, very difficult. Here are lobsters, islands, islands, fjords, mountains, ants and forests all over the place, and then it's only 4.5 million people to strew beyond. It's clear that the distances are going to be long and then it's going to be knotty. Then aviation and aircraft become a lot of the nerve in this, and it is absolutely vital that the rich and exciting business and social life that we have in the country can function. That's why I think it's important that we take inward into account how important this really is to our country. I note that the government parties and the Advance Party attach great importance to the fact that they have removed this airline passenger fee, and that this will in some way lead to everything getting so much better in aviation. Obviously, it's better for airlines not to pay a billion in taxes than to pay a billion in taxes. But to present it as if this is going to bring about a dramatic reduction in flight prices is with all due respect nothing but free imagination and thought-spin, because that's not the way it is. If you want to do something about air fares, there's a completely different approach you should take. This is going to be extra bad when you see that at the same time you turn the Aviation Agency into an AS. The only reason to do that must be to move control from the Storting, because it is too heavy to have it here, and to the board of the Aviation Agency that is to have more power than the board they have today. That must be the reason for believing that it is more effective, and maybe it is – what do I know? But I don't think you should do this in the hurry and the shower. I think it's getting a little confusing when the director of the Aviation Agency, Erlend Rian, good, old Right-Man, goes out and says that this will lead to horror and disaster for the districts. Then I have to ask, what kind of line is the government going on? Is it some sort of let the scout and walking attitude you've been putting on in your culture policy? In that case, I think you're good at full speed into completely wrong track.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1277	In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperation Government provides the basis for a transport policy that can contribute to good transport solutions for the whole country. In the field of maritime transport, the Government will give priority to actions that contribute to increasing safety. At the same time, investments shall also facilitate maritime transport to increase its market share, in particular in freight transport. The Government proposes that the National Transport Plan be followed up for the Coastal Network and investments in maritime infrastructure and services should contribute to strengthening the competitive advantage of maritime transport. I note with satisfaction that the majority of the Committee on Transport joins the Government's proposal for the transformation and organisation of the Coastal Agency. The government's ambition is that the new Coastal Plant should become a dynamic and forward-looking coastal management agency. Among other things, the new Coastal Plant should: enhance their competence in transport and social planning. The movement of the Coastal Directorate from Oslo to Ålesund is under way and the opening of the new offices of the Directorate in Ålesund is planned on 2 January 2002. From the same time, the new production unit will also be opened in Kabelvåg. My vision is that the sea shall flourish and the coast shall breed. Safe maritime transport is a prerequisite for this to be possible. The 2002 budget therefore includes measures to increase safety at sea, from several ministries. My own department is proposing an increase of 5 million. kr for marking the fairway for fast boats and ro-ro passenger ships. In addition, a budget of 10 million is proposed. kr to start the development of AIS — a maritime monitoring system along the coast. I note that the Committee believes that measures need to be considered to reduce the level of costs of maritime transport without at the same time weakening the safety of the sea. Maritime infrastructure and services are largely financed by users through fees. The costs incurred by shipping must be seen in the context of facilitating maritime transport and the need for coastal safety. The Ministry of Fisheries works, inter alia: reviewing the structure of today’s fees. The organisation of the Losing Service will also be assessed, together with other possible cost-saving measures. The size will be properly briefed on this. There is still a strong need for the development and maintenance of fishing ports. The draft budget therefore represents a continuing high effort in fishing ports and is above the average annual planning framework in the national transport plan. At the same time, the draft budget means that the allocations to fairway managers are below the annual planning framework. However, the aim is to achieve the planning framework for both fishing ports and fairways for the whole period as a whole. This is something the Government will come back to in later budget proposals for the Stortinget. In St. prp. No 1 the Ministry of Fisheries has taken a positive view of a museum solution for the Norwegian guy. However, as the Committee noted, the Ministry did not consider it advisable to give priority to the establishment of a Norwegian Light Museum at a time when there is still a great need for increased efforts to ensure safety and accessibility in the coastal fairways. The Committee has asked for a progress plan for the establishment of a Norwegian Lighthouse Museum as a network museum and presented it to the Stortinget during 2002, and we will of course do so. The government’s decision not to continue the Norwegian participation in the Loran C cooperation beyond the first contractual period is pending. However, the events of 11 September in New York and Washington have made it necessary to further assess the safety measures in the navigation systems. In the case of Loran C in particular, we will also have to look at the attitudes and developments of the other NELS Member States. In the Member States, the interest in Loran C is not only concentrated on maritime use. This is something we will hopefully get a better and more comprehensive overview of when we have completed the study we have launched on the future position of Loran C – which I also briefed on in the response letter to the Committee on Transport of 21 November. The government will come back to the Stortinget with a new assessment of the further development of the case, including information on the individual Member States, and the observer countries' views on the future of Loran C. The government has not committed to the decommissioning of the station at Bø in the Vesterålen until the possible termination of the NELS cooperation. It is also important to maintain the necessary competence at the station on Bø as long as we have an operational Loran C system, as this station is at the same time the technical competence centre for Loran C in Norway. I might also briefly say that I am pleased that a majority in the European Parliament agrees with the framework areas under the Committee. We are facing major challenges in the future, including in relation to the Coastal Agency – which I can say a little about on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1298	It's not the President for a moment to doubt. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1303	I warmly welcome the Minister for Fisheries to the debate and hope that, in this part of it too, we will benefit from both questions and answers. My starting point is first and foremost something that the Council of State concerned in its post: the future of the Loran C system. I have noted with satisfaction what the Council of State said. But it would be good if this were a little reinforced – because what has come to the committee is a considerable uncertainty about the previous decisions that have been taken, and about the signals given – and that it was even more important that both the competence of the environment, but also the vacant positions that exist, be taken care of, so that if we are to later change the basis for decisions in view of the extension of the Loran C system, it should not be that we are then unable to take over what is required. Another point is the movement of the Coastal Works to Ålesund. For the employees, there was a difficult process both when it came to their personal situation in the event of such a move, and their desire to maintain the competence of the Coastal Plant. In our case, Stortinget decided to add the production department to Kabelvåg. The Government’s proposal proposes a further review of the Coastal Works’ tasks and organisation, and therefore a postponement of the conversion of the Coastal Works’ production department to an administrative department from 1 January 2002. Does not the Council of State consider such a proposal to be an unnecessary plight of employees, immediately after the major reorganisation that has taken place? And what will the Council of State achieve that cannot be achieved through the administrative model?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1312	First, I would like to thank you for your greetings. If it was that the Minister for Fisheries has not been present throughout the debate, it is related to the fact that we are engaged in certain negotiations in Brussels on quotas and fisheries, which are the basis for our need for both the Coastal Agency and the Loran C. Let me do this with Loran C first. It has been reasonably clear in the Loran C case that it would go against degradation and liquidation. On 11 September, the situation has changed and this case has been brought to a new date. I would like to stress that neither the closure of Bø nor the closure of Loran C has taken any final position. But there's a main problem with Loran C: the lack of users. Those who were supposed to be potential users have removed Loran C for the benefit of GPS. Then you have the problem attached to a back-up system. I would like to stress that when Norway took on the foremanship of the Loran C cooperation this fall, it must also be understood that we have the same view in the department that the questioner expressed. No decision has been made. We are following developments in the Loran C work in relation to any link with Eurofix and Galileo. We see it this way in the department that with the presidency role we have assumed, and with the cooperation that is, we have to make up our own opinions. But we don't come from the fact that this is a spice layer, and we need more users than Norwegians. But I can assure you that in the work currently in progress, we are following developments, and as I said, no definitive decision has been taken. Both we and the employees in Bø must live with the uncertainty that is. On the other hand, I believe that the employees in Bø have also seen that what has happened recently has changed slightly – to their advantage. But I have no promise to give here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1323	I am also pleased that we have the Minister of Fisheries here now. I want to address the importance of safety at sea. Safety at sea is imperative if we are to manage – as the Minister mentioned – a transition from road transport to maritime transport. It is also imperative that we keep our food tray clean – perhaps the most important challenge we have – that we ensure that our marine areas can produce safe food in the future as well. In the vote, the majority say that one will stop the reorganisation of the Coastal Works and not complete the transformation into a management company, but turn the Coastal Works into a limited liability company. The experience of performing works in charge of security to a limited liability company is very much shared. The UK Railway Agency was converted into a limited liability company. We know the consequences of that, in terms of the reduced safety that has been on the British railway. The UK Railway Agency was told to make profitability calculations, and then it was not economically profitable for them to introduce automatic train stops. The lives you saved with it were not enough to make it a profitable investment. Then I have to say that I am concerned about the safety of the sea when we might now make the Coastal Works a share company. Should one also start here with safe profitability criteria, begin to weigh what a life is worth in terms of security? Not to talk about what the environment and our mattress along the coast are worth. Are these types of profitability criteria the basis for the further treatment of the Coastal Plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1334	First, to the considerations of the representative Heidi Sørensen around this with safe food and the transition of transport from road to sea. I fully agree on this with safe food and safe transport and safety in relation to environmental pollution, it is important that we take care of it. The government has also announced that we will produce a marine environmental message – which will be almost innovative in international policy – where we will see things in context. We have an ambition that that message will be submitted before the summer holiday, and it will be a basic document for bets in different fields in these areas. When it comes to the reorganisation of the Coastal Works, I stress that the process of reorganisation has not been completed. The issue of turning the establishment into an administrative enterprise will be assessed in the context of the competitive outsourcing of production activities and the question of the future location of metropolitan ports. I take with me the views that have come, both from the previous questioner and from the representative Sørensen. But I can assure you that no matter how you organize the Coastal Plant, the responsibility for security cannot be privatized. It is a public responsibility, and ensuring security will have priority regardless of future organisation. So we have not reached the final conclusion, but I take with me the views that the representative Sørensen has taken to the square, which is so absolutely relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1343	In his speech, the Minister for Fisheries stressed the need to facilitate the development of coastal business. He put emphasis on safe maritime transport, and that it was important to get a greater share of the transport over from land to sea. This is an opinion that very many parties on the Stortinget have, and that has been underlined in a lot of settings from the Committee on Transport in the past. It's certainly right to say that the Right is one of those parties that haven't hidden that they think that one should bet even more strongly on this field. So it was with a certain expectation I read the Bondevik II government's supplementary proposal to the budget, because I expect that now came part of what Right has said for years. But I discovered that what was written by the Ministry of Fisheries was quite thin things, to put it straight out. There wasn't so much of it that you should expect for earlier promises. I notice that the Council of State in its article took up some of the additions that have been made. But for the most part, there are additions coming from the Stoltenberg government, and not from the Bondevik II government. So my question to the government council is, is the government council satisfied with the additions that the Stoltenberg government has brought? And what time can we expect the promises from the Right to be fulfilled by the Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1352	I confirm to the representative Ringstad that there is a great deal of consensus in the Storting between all the parties that the marine sector has a value creation and employment potential that is greater than in most other industries. I also agree that this is a priority area in all parties, with coastal safety in relation to the environment. That's why I also showed that we have an ambition early in the spring to deliver the so-called marine environmental message, which draws up a number of perspectives and a number of objectives in these areas. Then I have to remind you that the Sem declaration, which is at the bottom of the work we're going to do, is a four-year project. We have no ambition to spend less time on it, but we also have no ambition that there is a document that should underlie a government beyond that. Then we're going to create new documents. But part of what lies there is so absolutely fulfilled already in this year's budget. That's why you can't get the impression of the representative Ringstad's question, that what the Stoltenberg government has presented, it would be an ambition to remove. The good that has been presented there, we continue. Where we were not satisfied, we added our own priorities within the timeframe and opportunities that there are always for a new government when they take over. So I can confirm that there are a number of proposals in the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government that I am satisfied with. I've passed them on. As for the representative of Ringstad, when it comes to getting further action from the Government, they will be included in the revised national budget and in the annual budgets for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1363	What you've done in this context is to withdraw the decision to turn the Coastal Plant into a management company, and I have to say that it smells like AS. It's probably governmental AS that's going to solve all of the problems and all of the problems we're dealing with. Today I can inform the Council of State that we have had a debate on this with AS. And the parties behind the proposals for AS in other areas say in part that it's important. Some say no, it's not so important, they say it leads to few changes, and some say it leads to many changes. Then I wonder what the State Council Ludvigsen's contribution in this way is: Is the transition to a limited liability company important? Does this lead to major changes? What changes will this lead to in concrete terms for the Coastal Plant? Now, fortunately, the state council said in a reply that one could not privatize security. But how can one privatize the enterprise without privatizing the security? Or let me ask another question: how can a certain political governance ensure when a person wants to organize all these assets as a limited liability company? After all, public limited companies are designed to think business-economically and not according to the concerns of society, such as security, which is important on the coast, as it is otherwise, but not least important on the coast, because if it is not safe there, it becomes fast very dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1372	With regard to the future organisation of the Coastal Agency, the Government has not reached a final conclusion. That is why we have also announced that we will come back to this. The size will be properly achieved when we have evaluated the various forms of organisation. Then comes our recommendation, and we'll give an argument based on that. When one had to think, whether in the case of the Coastal Works or other bodies, towards a limited liability company, it is always clear that, on the part of the government, it is necessary to assign duties and responsibilities. Then this is about the safety of the Coastal Works, a part that cannot be privatised. But that's part of what we're going to manage regardless of future organization. At the same time, however, good experience exists that the organisation of establishments often produces good results in terms of more cost-effective operation and cost-effective solutions. And I think we all in this room should be concerned about how we can make the most of the taxpayers’ – and in this case the users’ – payment for services in the most efficient way possible. In this respect, the organisational form must not prevent good solutions, both in terms of cost-effective operation, and in terms of ensuring this with certainty. So maybe I could just get back to the first questioner, which I didn't get to answer completely. We are, of course, aware that any movement process causes a strain on those who have their place of work in this department. On the other hand, one has also learned that it is part of the vitalization of an organisation – the Polar Institute, which has moved from Oslo to Tromsø, is an example of this. It seems to be the case with the Coastal Works, but otherwise it turns out that 14 to 15 employees are probably coming from Oslo to Ålesund, and that 20 are coming from Oslo to the district offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1383	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1387	I have heard in many contexts it is claimed that it is not possible to decide where people will live. Of course, it's not that some public authorities can decide where people are going to live, but the decisions we make here in the Stortinge on, among other things. transport, is very crucial for where people can live and where business can develop in this country. In this context, I am not too optimistic about the signals given by the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party in this budgetary position, and of course supported by the Left. Now, when we find out that without any prior process and almost on the kick, these parties decide that the Post, the Swedish Aviation Agency and the NSB are to be converted into a limited liability company, this is a very disturbing signal of what we are living in District Norway can expect in the course of privatisation, market management and closure. We might have expected such a grip from the Right and Advance Party, but it was a great surprise that the Christian People's Party would be on such a line. I fear that if we don't get a situation where, for example. the letter and package portfolio is differentiated from the place where the consignor and consignee live in the country. I also fear that we have seen our best days in terms of mail distribution to all households and businesses on all business days. As far as the Aviation Agency is concerned, I don't think the answer to today's challenges is more AS, more privatisation and less governance, but on the contrary more governmental commitment. High fares for air travel, the risk of a dramatic closure of aerodromes in the short-haul network and the need for improvements to multi-aeronautical terminal constructions indicate that there is at least no less public engagement for aviation. We need to ensure that we can maintain air traffic that is appropriate for housing and business in all parts of the country, and we need to be aware that some areas of this country also do not have the train as an alternative. With regard to the outsourcing of ferry services, I don't think this will improve the provision for passengers and the working conditions of the crew, but to a greater extent it is a question of earnings and cost reductions that can affect both route provision and maritime safety in a negative direction. Norway is a long-distance country with few people and scattered settlements. In such a country, social and, to a lesser extent, market considerations must be taken into account in order to maintain housing and economic development in all parts of the country. The majority’s right-wing policy is short and well out of place in Norway. I look at my travels in District Norway many active and value-creating businesses, not only in fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture, but also in high-tech and other industries. It must be the task of the Biggest to make every effort to exploit all the potential for making value in this country, including in the districts. Today, many viable settlements are struggling with a state road standard that people in central districts would not have accepted as a footpath to the cabin saying. Such wretched roads depend on many businesses to get their products out to the market. This results in costly transhipments and many delays that are of great benefit to business. It can't go on like that. The state has to provide additional assistance as soon as possible to those states that have most kilometres of highways and where the standard is the worst. Finally, let me say that I am amazed that the government parties and the Progress Party with a pen-strip cutter in the compensation for increased employer's fee, the funds that the states have planned and started using. This is a new blow to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1419	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1422	I'm actually not so surprised at what we see drawing today. In the last period, the Progress Party and the Right proposed almost to make limited liability companies virtually all corporations and all businesses located within Samferdsels-Norway. The difference between now and then is that the centre parties and the Workers' Party and SV voted down the proposals in turn and in order as the Right Party and the Advance Party put them forward. The left was on some of them, but, as I said, on the whole it was the center, the working party and the SV that stood together. What is surprising today, and what has suddenly happened in two months, is that the Christian People's Party has sold itself to the Progress Party and the Right. To keep me to NSB, what is now done is at least not done to strengthen the railway. The Right Party and the Advance Party have never been hot spokesmen for more railway and strengthening the NSB in this hall. What is now done is not based on cultural considerations, but simply on purely right-wing ideology. Based on the new NSB management system, Stortinget shall draw up the general principles of State ownership in the company every two years. It's not long since the Storting. In June now this year, Stortinget did. I'm standing here with an attitude dated June 7. That date may well be remembered in Norway history for something other than this setting, but at least it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that the State should continue its ownership of the NSB as today and that the company should remain as a special law company.’ In the debate on 14 June, Jan Sahl said – I very much appreciate that he is present in the Chamber here: ‘It was only to be lacking if the NSB did not get a job. I think that's exactly what's needed." And Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen, chief speaker of the Christian People's Party, said, ‘We want to continue state ownership in the NSB, precisely because we want something with the company.’ This is an unprofessional way of doing it, and it's an irresponsible way of doing such a big grip. So what's the next step going to be? I assume that the Right will receive support to sell the shares in the Flytrain, as they proposed in ours. And after the NSB becomes a corporation, it's probably a majority to sell down the state's shares in the NSB. I assume that the Christian People's Party also has no scruples with it. As long as the party agrees to sell shares in Arcus, a company that produces spirits, the party also agrees to sell shares in a company that only runs trains. The railway had deserved to be treated in a more serious way!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1448	It is gratifying that a majority of the Committee is in favour of keeping Hardangervida open in the coming winter. Hardangervidda is definitely the most attractive east-west link for business and for road users in general between the East and Norway’s second largest city, which is Bergen. It is therefore important to be predictable in your policies, both to people and to animals. Yes, I said animals, because there's a revolution in the majority's remark about keeping the road open in some kind of coexistence between wild and traffickers. And it may well be that this will work in practical formalized cooperation between the Directorate of Nature Management and the State Road Administration. But I think we need to decide gradually that we want to manage this unique wild reindeer stock properly, and we want business and the population of Bergen and the West to be well connected, with predictable regularity over the Hardanger range, summer and winter. The Council of State has also happily opened up to Hardangerbrua by supporting the approach put forward by the Directorate of Roads to further work on plan updating and impact assessment for the project. Hordaland County has given top priority to this project. But then we probably have to lay some of the road across the wide area in the tunnel, so that we meet both the transport interests and the wild rain interests. This issue is too important to be constantly pushed on. These are important priorities for a very large number of people. It therefore deserves a constructive solution that all parties can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1457	In my previous post I talked a lot about the State Road Administration. What I want to address now is how important it is with good and safe roads. A better road network is necessary in order to create new activities and develop existing businesses, and in particular this is important for districts. Increased investment in the road network is an important element of the Regional Policy of the Cooperative Government. A better road network will also strengthen road safety. As I said earlier, it is important to reduce transport costs, and it is important for district policy. But in addition, the numbers of accidents must come down! I guess we all have someone close to us, walking on the roads. I have drawn a sigh of relief more than once when I hear that my daughter has come safely from Søgne to Oslo by car. It's about security, and it's about security. That is why I am pleased that there is an increase in national road appropriations of 447 million on the road budget. kr in relation to the 2001 budget, including the 100 million. kr The cooperative government added, and in addition, we have received an additional 11 million by the agreement. national road appropriations. It is important that we be able to develop and improve the standard of road sections with high traffic loads and high accident rates. Examples of such sections are E18 and E39 through the Agderfylken and E6 through Østfold. It is therefore very positive that the Cooperative Government has found room for increased appropriations for E18 Brokelandsheia-Vinterkjær in East Agder by 40 million. kr in addition to the proposed government of Stoltenberg. In addition, on the current year's budget, the loan envelope is increased from 60 to 230 million. SEK to the E18 East-Agder package. This means that work can be carried out more quickly and completed more quickly. The E6 through Østfold also receives an increase, while this distance can be considered as a OPS project. If there's something important to me – more than this to get good roads – then it's bringing down the accident figures. We know that the more we can get saved, the better and safer we will get in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1470	The list of airports in West Agder was a military airport before 1995. When the airport was shut down, after major protests, regular services were started by local private operators. Of course, for the western region of the Western Agder state, also known as the Lister region, such a communication offer means a lot. The Lister region is located between Stavanger, i.e. Rogalandsbyen, and Kristiansand, Agderbyen. The Lister region is now characterised by relocation. Today, airlines have difficulties in obtaining a commercial scheduled service with regard to passenger services. This is because the road standard for Farsund is very poor. An improvement in road standards is fortunately inside the road plan. In order to maintain the aerodrome infrastructure, there must be passenger traffic. When the road is built, the potential at the airport will be cost-effective. Anyone who knows the situation in West Agder also sees the importance of Lista Airport becoming an active airport in the future. The current Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen stated in the election campaign that for Lista Fly and Business Park, scheduled air services are of the highest priority. The Storting and the Government have heavy obligations after they have chosen to drop the defense activity on the List. There will be colossal costs if the aerodrome flight trip has to be demolished, compared to the little one has to go out with to get scheduled flights. The current representative of the big business and current Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen further stated that he felt the requirement for state aid and having the air route put on State tenders was absolutely a natural requirement. The municipality and the county have now applied to join the tendering round. Entrepreneurs from West Agder have applied for a maximum of 3 million. kr per year. I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport: Has the Minister for Economic Affairs been in contact with the Minister for Transport on this matter, which in his view has the highest priority? And further, will the Minister of Transport ensure that the List Airport is maintained, for the benefit of businesses and the population of the Lister region?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1485	It is with special attention that I have listened to the debate here today. It is quite remarkable that E6 in Eastfold has been mentioned in many articles. Suddenly, many in this room are concerned with all the fatal accidents and all the serious accidents that have occurred at E6 in Eastfold. And I remember the ugly statistics: we look at only the last ten years, "there's a coffin" for every kilometer along the E6 – on a distance of six miles. There are too many tragedies, and something has to be done. But we do not stop these accidents by expressing our concern from this pulpit. This is where we have to allocate funds to enable us to build traffic-safe roads. Therefore, it is completely impossible to understand the Christian People's Party and the Right's priorities when the budget of the government of Bondevik came in the autumn with increased appropriations to go without getting a single crown to the tribal roads of Eastfold – our main roads abroad. No, there were other ways that were given priority. Forgetting all the election vows from Bondevik and Petersen, all the accidents in Eastfold were forgotten. The Labour Party government prioritised 15 million. kr for planning which must be put in place in the first place and reach a further 35 million. kr to E6 and E18 in Eastfold, so that both of these roads could start with new couples next year. We don't get a majority for that. The party traveled around Eastfold for two whole days as late as November and boasted that they would give priority to E6 and E18 in Eastfold. It's going to be ridiculous when the Progress Party has now accepted a settlement that ends up with 10 million. kr to E6 and not one ear to E18. But now I think people have gradually revealed everything that there's nothing going on in practical politics. The party of progress could get bigger appropriations on these sections of the road – where most lives certainly go along, where there are the most serious accidents there 75 pst. of all long journeys and where traffic growth is twice as high as in the rest of the country – if they had joined the Workers’ Party. If the Progress Party was concerned with saving lives and preventing serious road accidents, they could have different priorities. They didn't want to. It is positive that the Council of State promises to provide E6 and E18 and promises to come back with a proposal on how this will happen. But it is also true that if there is no more money in 2002 to the Eastfold package than the 10 million. As it now appears to be a majority, it will be more difficult to have the timetable delayed, because it is impossible to have work all along the road at the same time as the traffic is due. It also assumes that these 10 million. kr, which is now granted, is used to set the spade in the earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1496	The reorganisation of the transport sector has been the major issue so far in the debate today, and I agree that it is important. It is about the possibility of having political and state governance of this important sector, and in my view, the transport sector is perhaps one of the most important tools we have in our business and district policies. I find that the representative Holten in a line change earlier today did not have any concrete arguments to join the company form that the Posten and NSB have today, a form of company that is therefore considered impossible to meet tomorrow's situation. Instead, Holten spends the time stressing that the Christian People's Party will have a public limited liability company, which the council follows up, and in fact concludes that the Stortinget does not understand what is the difference between BA and a limited liability company. I'll leave it, but I'll try another conclusion. In the nomination, the majority uses the term ‘share company’, not the term ‘public limited liability company’, and it cannot be interpreted in any other way than for those companies to be privatised in the short or long term. Here's the completely conscious choice of term. Therefore, there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party and the majority have made a run to sacrifice the political tool in terms of the Post and the railway area on the altar of capital. So some words about the production activity of the State Road Service. Outside this house, and perhaps also in this house, it is made as if there is no public monopoly in road construction. This is wrong. We have a mixture of private and public production that has worked very well in the road sector. And why do we have public and state production? I can sum it up in five points: we have it because of the readiness and service, because we want a government correction in the market, research and development, but perhaps not least because of the building contractor's competence in the state road system. The standby and service are important for all road users. Having a corrective action in the market is also important. I just want to remind this assembly how it was when private people had a monopoly on asphalt production. When the state started doing this, the prices went down by 25 pst. In other words, if the State Road Service is to exist in the future, they must have access to the production competence. Experience from other countries highlights this need. If production is moved away, it cannot be seen as anything but a concrete reduction in the state road system as a corrective element in road policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1505	I would like to commend the Council of State and the Government for demonstrating the power of action in relation to the challenges we face in the transport sector. It provides a reasonable and holistic priority for the various purposes. It provides a proper balance between the environment and, in particular, the enormous traffic problems that exist in key strokes. However, there is also a balanced distribution between districts and central districts. In Norway, there is a lack of some information. 90 miles of motorway relative to the traffic base. In particular, the Government's promises to support the deployment of E18 and E6 through Eastfold were very joyful. A forced expansion is essential, as the Council points out, in view of the enormous traffic problems that exist in Eastfold – kilometres of cows along the E6 and many unnecessary deaths and mutilations caused by cruel traffic accidents. 80 pst. of freight and car traffic entering Norway through Eastfold on these roads. Norwegian businesses have large extra transport costs as a result of poor road standards. It is nice that the Council of State attaches so much importance to solving the traffic problems in Eastfold. I will also be allowed to congratulate the Workers' Party on a complete turnaround in this case to support a forced deployment of E6 and E18 only 14 days after the departure of the Stoltenberg government. For years, the working party has used almost all the arguments not to extend E6 to the four-field motorway and E18 to the two-field motorway. Without the promises of the Council of State, the Workers' Party's proposal not to do anything before 2011 would be in line with the consequences. So today's input from the Workers' Party can look like a little play in relation to the actual realities that have been in this case before. And Signe Øyes' attack on both Bondevik and Petersen was unsuccessful when the Workers' Party first changed its position in opposition. But this government is acting, it's not explaining away. When the Council of State and the Government's proposal for forced development are to come up as their own matter here in the Grand Duchy, it is a victory for the road users along these traffic traps, and in that case it is likely to be supported by a majority on the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. So once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for her initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13.ana.ud701e1519	The President would point out that speaking of the acting of co-representatives in the Chamber is hardly an appropriate speech. The morning meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled. 18th@item: inlistbox
