ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e59	A week ago, the OECD presented its review of economic developments in the industrialized world, including Norway. Their predictions are that economic growth in 2002 could be the lowest world has seen for about 20 years. It is clear that Norway is not unaffected by this. In particular, the export-oriented parts of business will be exposed. Nevertheless, Norwegian households are relatively sound in financial terms, as opposed to most other countries. Low price increases and tax reliefs also contribute to this. The OECD forecasts for Norwegian economic development next year are well in line with the adjusted estimates presented in the additionalproposal of the Government. Therefore, there is no basis for an opinion, as the Chairman of the Financial Committee makes in an article in one of today's newspapers, that the Government: ‘has drastically adjusted the growth rate of the mainland economy in the coming years’. There is no basis for that. There is reason to stress that in its analyses the OECD also underlines the uncertainty about further development. However, economic growth is already expected in 2003 to rise to the level we have seen in the last five years. However, economic growth will not come from heaven as a human being, but we will also politically facilitate innovation and value creation. Cooperation management will pursue a policy that ensures the well-being of the economy through economic growth. We will therefore reduce taxes, make Norway simpler and less bureaucratic and strengthen competition policy, as part of this. The problems of the international economy are now becoming more visible in the Norwegian economy too. Uncompetitive business experience setbacks, while the activity of protected sectors remains high. In other words, we see a strong tendency towards bi-dividualism in the economy. The part of business that is to be the basis of future well-being is being reduced and increasingly skewed. This cannot continue if we want a still high level of well-being. The draft budget of the Cooperation Party is a step in the right direction to reverse this trend. In today's situation, monetary policy should primarily stimulate the activity of the Norwegian economy. The combination of prospects for weaker economic growth internationally, which in particular will affect the export industry, increases in wages than with our trading partners, a strong price of krone and a high level of interest, warrants this. The current economic policy guidelines mean that monetary policy has a clearer role to play in stabilising the development of the Norwegian economy. The government emphasises that the budget should provide room for lower interest rates in the future. The Bank of Norway has indicated that interest rates may be relevant. A more expansive fiscal policy will reduce the potential for a fall in interest rates. This will be bad news both for young people in the start-up phase and for competitive business. In my opinion, the government’s 2002 scheme provides better incentives for a fall in interest rates compared to the previous government’s scheme. We have a scheme of lower expenditure growth, also lower than the growth of gross domestic product as it is downgraded. We have a scheme where the withdrawal of the oil fund is more widely used for tax relief. It contributes to less pressure. And we have a scheme where the state credit volume is slightly lower than in the previous government arrangement. It contributes in the same direction. The government has stressed that budgetary policy should provide the basis for a wage settlement for the spring that businesses can carry. It is also the responsibility of the social partners to help bring wage growth down to the level of our trading partners. In this morning’s debate, the Government – not surprisingly – has experienced criticism of its budget. But the criticism is sprinkling. From the Progress Party we hear that the setup is puzzled and has too little right profile. From the Workers’ Party and SV Team, strong terms such as ‘racialisation’ are used, and congratulations are given to the Right to be a budget winner. I have lived long enough in this room in a way, to realize that such a ‘ros’ has a completely different purpose, namely to harm our cooperative parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In a way, perhaps that kind of praise is a revelation that the cooperation line in the Workers' Party has not yet reached the very end, to say the least. Because it's possible to make a budget line with more than one lot that wins. There is more than one truth. It's a little bit of the nature of cooperation, and it'll come eventually. Substantial areas of activity of the previous government structure are also continued in this government budget line. Health, care for the elderly and kindergartens are the most important of these areas. It is an expression of a broad consensus in the policy that I appreciate. The Government shall continue its efforts in these areas. U-aid in the budget is record high, with 80 pst. of the gross national income, and even of the workers’ party team — well, right from the abducted state councils, but it may be from such a hearing — the government gets praise for doing something about the poverty problems, to do more than others. This has led others to adopt similar measures, partly to reinforce them. That's good. This is called in the synergy policy, and it helps. The government has been heavily attacked to eliminate the double taxation of dividends. This tax was intended to be temporary, and therefore it has also been removed. But I wonder a little bit about the violent attack on double taxation. In Ot.prp. No 35 from 1990-91on the tax reform 1992, the Labour Party Government writes the following: ‘In the light of these assessments, the Ministry considers that when designing the dividend tax rules, it is important to avoid double taxation of companies and shareholders.’ Further: «It is important that returns on investments in limited liability companies are not taxed differently from those on other financial assets.» I agree with the heart, and that is the policy of this government. There have also been social-democratic policies in some countries. 10 years. Therefore, it was a little strange to hear the debate this morning, that this action should be a special measure to help them well-intermediated, or the rich. This is a characteristic of the Labour Party's policy in the 1990s. I also want to quote a former magnificent representative, now with the title of CEO, Paul Chaffey, who in a weekly magazine recently said the following: ‘Removal of the dividend tax will make it less attractive to lock up money within businesses and more attractive to invest in higher-income enterprises and industries. Change in the taxation of employee stock options will make it more attractive to reward good results with the possibility of company ownership and thus the ability to participate in the capitalisation of a successful business.» I think that is a very useful recognition, and that is to be welcomed. In conclusion, I would like to touch on a subject that has been somewhat peripheral, but still within the scope of the debate, namely the state's ownership of the Norwegian Bank. The size has in a setting from the previous period, Innst. S. No 245 for 1999-2000 on the State's ownership of the credit fund, granted its power of government sale in the Norwegian Bank, however limited to stopping at 33 1/3 pst. The Government shall, for its part, base this mandate on its policy. The majority of the population also wanted the Norwegian Bank to develop into a leading Norwegian financial institution, which may require structural solutions. If there were to be a conflict between the two objectives of the Storting – the limitation of ownership of state ownership, and the desire to develop into one leading Norwegian financial institution – we would resubmit the matter to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e105	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e108	It must well be said about the Minister of Finance that in his speech he was just as concerned as a Minister of Finance should be, a little concerned about how international development would affect the Norwegian economy, a little concerned about the measures in the two-part division of the Norwegian economy, and also a little concerned about a possible stronger wage growth in Norway than in our competing countries. But what was really interesting was listening to the Minister of Finance's deepening of the 'nature of cooperation', as the Council of State Foss mentioned it. I understand that it has been necessary – yes, of course absolutely necessary – to be involved in the cooperation of a government consisting of three parties. The government also wants to be remembered as the Co-operation Government. What may be surprising is that it was not at all concerned with the Minister of Finance, who recently presented his very first state budget – we have it for debate in the Grand Duchy today, and we are also going to debate it tomorrow – that there is no majority who have expressed their willingness to support his budget here in the Chamber. The Finance Minister did not know the challenge facing the Government in meeting with the Stortinget, with one single word in his intervention, and I thought that was quite perceptive. It must also be said, in the spirit of cooperation at that time, that the Government's innovation in the area of cooperation has at least not been out of place in relation to the opposition to the Stortinget. If that were the case, we would have a different situation in this financial debate than what we actually have. My challenge to the Minister of Finance is: Is it possible for the Stortinget to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment of the situation he and his government are in, in which his submitted budget has no clear majority in the proceedings in Stortinget today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e121	I understand that the problem was that I was so concerned about the economy, but a little too little concerned about the political situation. Let me just say about the economy that I was striving to give a fairly sober description, and I guess I also marked a certain distance to trends in the black coloring of the Norwegian economy, which I think there is no basis for. I think I hit something like that, and I also feel that there is no big disagreement about the exact description of past and present government parties. So to the situation in Stortinget. It would have been an advantage if the budget had been presented not only with a description of interesting work in the committee and commended to the members of the committee, which I would very much like to attend, but also with a clear situation regarding a majority. But when I listen to the debate, I must say that I do not experience the very great distance or drama. And I registered that the chairman of the Financial Committee in an article that is published in Today's Business, writes about the Bondevik government's budget proposal that it is "going in the right direction". I also remember as far back as four years ago, when we also discussed budgetary cooperation. It was then a budget that contained quite significant tax increases, which could be agreed upon by reducing the tax increases, but not completely eliminated. Now it is a budget of tax relief that, at my best discretion, goes in such a direction that the Progress Party will also be able to support it. And it's been expressed by this pulpit on several occasions. I will not be invited to speculate further in the outcome of the debate today or tomorrow. I'm just going to point out that there's a great deal of excitement in the Storting about respecting what's often referred to as the new budgetary system, what's now been over a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e132	The Minister of Finance began to talk a little about the outlook for growth for the Norwegian economy, where he, among other things, spoke. pointed out that there was no evidence for my claim that the Government had adjusted the growth estimates for the Norwegian economy. The first question to the Minister of Finance will then be: Does this mean that the Minister of Finance is well pleased with the growth forecasts we now see for the Norwegian economy for the coming years, and that he and the Government will not do any things in the world to contribute to growth? In that case, there would be a significant clarification in such an important debate. But what the Minister of Finance said I agree with is how important it is to facilitate innovation and value creation. And an instrument that you can use, and which I have registered that the Minister of Finance, although before he became Minister of Finance and in the election campaign, was very concerned about expressing, one area we could use some of our oil wealth on, is investing in road construction, especially because we had free capacity. There were 3,300 unemployed workers. It would be a sensible way to dispose of some of our wealth, not least because it would also contribute to increased value creation. Most recently in Focus on the NRK not many days ago, the Minister of Finance – however, before he became Minister of Finance – was quoted on this. Then my next question is: does the Minister of Finance still mean this, or was there something he just meant before he became Minister of Finance, and while it was election? It could also be quite interesting to clarify a question that many people wonder why we can't, especially now that we've got the results for the third quarter oil fund, which shows significant falls, and that our investments are highly uncertain. Maybe it makes sense to look at other ways of placing some of our national wealth, so that it grows and benefits more of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e141	I think it's pretty important to have shades when describing the economy. There is a difference between the government’s drastic downgrading of growth estimates and the fact that growth estimates for domestic GDP have been downgraded by three tenths. The appropriations for the unemployment allowance have been adjusted by two tenths. The OECD forecasts for Norway, which have come after the government’s submission, confirm this in all respects. There's nothing drastic about this. I also believe that expressions such as that the Norwegian economy does not have a ‘counsel to a state that is amok in collecting earthly goods in the form of foreign papers’, nor is a striking description of the Norwegian economy. I don't think many economists are met either at home or outside that seem to be helping to turn Norway into an attractive country to invest in, as we all will contribute to. I believe that road development is a very sensible area for the state budget to invest in. My intention is that this should be followed up in each budget in the future, in line with the financial framework. I think, however, that if you see this as a kind of alternative investment in oil funds, you're a little lost track. I also believe that if you use a periodic decrease in stock values as a result of the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September, you will be on the wrong track as a justification for road development. I have many better reasons than that, but I understand that we agree on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e150	What struck me when I heard the Minister of Finance here in Stortinget was the tone he made, not necessarily what he said. I'm a little surprised that a finance minister who doesn't have a majority behind his budget in Stortinget can allow himself to run harelas in the way that we know it from Per-Christian Foss the time he sat here in Stortinget. For as far as I know, there is no majority behind the government's budget, and it must be understood that this was not an invitation for anyone to support the government's budget, if any. It is difficult to understand in any other way than that the Government has now realized that it is only with coercion that a budget can be passed through in the Stortinget. There is no good start for a government, nor is it a good start in my opinion that the Minister of Finance chooses to use harelas instead of using invit. But now leave it. It's going to be another discussion. At the end of his contribution, the Minister of Finance addressed this with the sale of DnB. Let me just say the following: I noticed that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg the other day in a TV program related to the sale of the credit card said that if you own 33.3 pst. and really has a blocking minority, the situation will be such that when there is a bid on a bank, the state will not, despite it, be able to block for the other private owners the desire to realise a win. If you're going to sell down to 33.3 pst. in DnB, the same situation that occurred in the credit fund may arise. It could be that Dresdner Bank, Deutsche Bank or some major international player want to buy DnB because this is a lucrative bank. What I think needs to worry about Per-Kristian Foss – because he is also generally concerned about the business environment – is: Think of the situation that we do not have up-to-date commercial banks with head offices based in Norway. Now the credit fund has gone, now Focus Bank has gone, now other financial institutions have almost gone – and it was only on the hair that not Storebrand also feed abroad. Does he not see from his point of view what many business leaders now warn against in the newspapers, namely that we do not have to face such a situation that DnB also ports abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e161	There's a lot of ways to think about it. But that I should have kind of driven harelas in my post about the possibilities for the Government to have a majority for its financial arrangement in the hall, I have a little problem with it. I tried very easily to point out that several parties have actually pointed out that there is a great deal of convergence between the outgoing government and the current government in some important priority areas that I mentioned, elderly care, kindergartens and health. I also pointed out that the party that has contributed to our change of government, the Progress Party, has also characterised the budget as a step in the right direction, but not enough, I understand. They have also pointed out that in a few important areas, the budget meets the demands of this party, namely lower expenditure growth and historical tax relief – not enough, but in the right direction. Then to the Norwegian Bank. First a little bit about historiography: I guess it wasn't exactly pressure or anything like that that got the bulk of the population to turn around. I experienced that process as a representative from the hall. I didn't belong to the majority, but I recorded that the majority changed their perception from changed views on how the world, and especially the banking structure in the Nordic region, had evolved. Changes in perception are permitted, and this also led to a clear signal that the State sold its shares to what is now Nordea, which is a bank that contributes to a good offer in Norway and to competition in the banking structure in Norway. In my contribution, I have highlighted what the majority of people have asked for, namely that the Norwegian Bank is a leading financial player in Norway. That is something that cannot be decided politically. You can't make a plan for that either. But this is an invitation to the Norwegian Bank to possibly seek possible structural solutions. I believe that such structural solutions exist if they are not dictated from a political point of view, but if they come as an initiative from the bank itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e170	Right-hand election vows were less tax and better school, and the tax promise is kept for the benefit of: 5 billion dollars less personal tax incurred than today – 80 p.m. of it to the richest. We have heard about the taxlets that are wonderful for business as well in a number of line changes today. New entrants who do not pay taxes benefit from it, even if they also lose the start-up aid from SND and municipal business funds. The industry in the district, where they get little of this tax, also benefits from it, although they also lose a lot of the help they've had before. But the school lifts may not have been able to afford it, and it may also be difficult to see how tax havens should provide better school. In the case of primary school, we'll find 100 million in the budget. kr in addition to what was promised in the spring, and it will go to 1 hour a week in Norwegian to 2nd and 4th grade from the fall. They should probably learn to write thank you cards correctly! The center party thinks it costs a lot to get to a better school, and that there's already too little money to get it to. More adults are needed to teach kids. They need a good start, and the school also needs to participate to prevent crime. Today, the municipalities have so little money that they set up cross-border schools, and they can't afford temporary workers. If they're going to get something more than that, their option when they don't have any more substitute bills to cut off, is maybe cutting off old-age care and kindergartens. The question to the Minister of Finance is then: When will the school promise be made concrete with increased funds for those who run primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e183	I'll start by giving the Center Party praise. It doesn't happen every day. In today's afternoon newscast, I heard the head of the centre party, Enoxen, was out and said that the blame for the central party's terrible election was just one: the centre party itself. With experience from many years of descriptions of election defeats, I think it's an honest and good explanation and a very simple explanation. But the simplest is often the best. One more thing I will also give as a advice, and that is: hold on to politics over time! Now, when I hear Morten Lund talking about dividend taxes, I don't recognize former Minister of Finance Restad, the Restad of the Senter party, and a party that warned against the dividend tax and stressed that it would be temporary. I think it makes sense to keep a little line over time, even on such questions as how many talk hot about predictability. I take to heart the criticism or praise it must be to say that the tax promises are fulfilled at once. On the school side, we've also done a lot, but some remain. I think it's important that we have now given an increased number of hours, which makes it possible to strengthen teaching in Norwegian. Tool science is important. I fully agree that the school has tasks in addition to the purely educational ones. A good school can not only be read by appropriations and economics. It is related to the quality of management, parental education and the atmosphere of a college of teachers, to say the same, and the overall upswing of the school in the local environment. That is important, but that is not all that can be managed through budgets. Now we start a process of school policy reform, where part of the reform will be to decentralize and leave more responsibility to the individual school, less A4 management from the central school. I think that will trigger a lot of local creativity, which is actually not readable by budgets, but which can provide better schools, better education and a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e195	In fact, there are many new directions in this state budget that have been submitted. What I've noticed the most is that the government in the state budget is adding up to a massive privatisation of businesses. I see that one of the reasons for this extensive privatisation is that state ownership should be limited to companies of an administrative nature and companies where ownership has a clear political justification. To give an example, we have State power, which is the second-largest electricity producer, which owns and disposes of large-scale hydroelectric power plants and warehouses. There has been a very good tool for the Norwegian state and the Norwegian community in the construction of our entire industrial community. As far as I can see, it has not been a burden for the state or society that we have had this tool. Should we also have a gigantic privatisation here? And what about the Norwegian ownership of this company? Wouldn't it make sense to put any posts forward? Is it now that we will get enough capitalists in Norwegian society to take care of these companies when they are to be privatized? How will this company proceed when the historically clear condition of the right of return arises? Can the Minister of Finance explain that? The finance minister said they had very little time to do what they wanted. They have done a great deal about the district aid! They're chopping about. One billion dollars in SND. If it gets like this, I think at the next budget we're going to get a warmer round in this mess.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e206	Yes, the representative Nordtun is a man of goodwill, so he overwhelms us with praise for having done a lot in a short time! I take it to myself, although not everything was meant to be directly positive. The question was whether it was not soon time to ‘put some posts in place’ to use the replicator’s own expression. I fully agree with that. I think it's time for a biasless review of state ownership, and see what we're really still in need. State power was once a tool for, among other things, industrial contracts. It's not anymore. The relationship of State power with the right of repatriation is not necessary. We are going to look into this in the government and present it in an appropriate way, but we can in principle retain the right to return without having State power as such. I record that the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, has stated something I also agree with, namely that there may be a need for a certain state ownership in some places, at least in minority positions, to ensure presence in Norway, location of headquarters, etc. That may be an absolutely audible justification. But in relation to Statkraft, perhaps the danger of emigration is not what is most nearby! I think the facilities are reasonably firm. I believe, on the other hand, that it is in relation to other types of businesses – let's call it the knowledge industry in a very broad sense – that the danger of relocation of both research bits and headquarters is more dangerous, to put it that way. – We're going to have a broad review of what's on grounds. I note that the transparency that was present in the Labour Party in the previous period for the sale of state shares, not to the same extent there is now. But let me say so that it should be done to sell as much as the Workers' Party did in its last government period in a relatively short time. There's no goal in itself, but I think we'll continue on a little bit of the same line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e222	The representative Øystein Djupedal has given a fairly good review of what is SV's main priorities in our alternative budget, so I'm going to focus on a few areas that he wasn't in. I should have liked to have seen that the debate on the budget in the fall had been about other things than who gives the most tax relief and who is responsible for not having a plural proposal here today. I would like to hear that more people were concerned with local economy and district policy, even when there is no electoral campaign. In the debate on who is responsible for missing multiples, the dramatic proposals of the Government in terms of district policy, almost without their place, have been made until today. Fortunately, business wakes up every now and then, and we got a race of protests against cuts in the SND system in particular. The government party then chose to decorate a little on the proposal at the request of the financial committee, but still there is no doubt that the proposals when it comes to district policy are very poor. On the other hand, SV has chosen a strong district profile in its proposal. We focus on both business development and service development in the districts. There is pressure in central strata on both housing and infrastructure, while the districts are losing in the fight for jobs. It's also the way, unfortunately, that the distance between people and service provision is increasing in the districts. We're doing something about it. One of the most important steps is to strengthen the local economy. It doesn't help that companies in the districts can offer you an interesting job, when the municipality can't set up schools for the young, a kindergarten or that there is a reasonable amount of cultural and leisure opportunities to take advantage of. People are simply more occupied with having qualities in leisure, and it doesn't work to offer pure nature alone. People also find it a little interesting that the kids have to bus several miles on the wrong road every day, or that the opening hours in the kindergarten are so scarce that you can't be in full employment, and much less commuting. Being able to maintain a good welfare offer in municipalities is, therefore, very important if we are to be able to stop the moving power to central strokes. SV gives the municipalities such a lift. We're strengthening the local economy with $4 billion in free income and additional over $3 billion through various other ear-marked additions. This allows municipalities to keep up with their cross-sectional spheres, to have an up-to-date childcare facility, to provide good health services and to provide rich cultural services. Another measure is the differentiated employer fee. It is one of our most central district policy tools. It makes the workforce cheaper in the districts than in the central ones. We have chosen to add an additional NOK 1 billion to this scheme. This will make it easier to create both new jobs, to prevent the centralisation of the workplace and to move the workplaces from the centre of the street and into the districts. There was a very important topic of debate in the election campaign, at least in the districts. Otherwise, there is a broad consensus that we should have a profitable and thriving business life if we are to be able to sustain the welfare state. The new government has a high flag to facilitate innovation and industrial policy, and there is a wide gap in the Sem Declaration. It is therefore both incomprehensible and quite difficult to understand that the most dramatic cuts in this budget come within the framework of the SND, the regional and municipal food funds and the agricultural agreement. A representative from the Workers' Party quoted earlier today from Sandane Näringshage, who is in my home country. Another representative, who manages the local and regional food funds, said when he saw this budget, that hereafter we cannot do anything but talk. I think there's probably talk and a little too little action from before, so cutting here is very bad politics. SND simply plays an important role in business and district development. Especially at these times when a market for risk capital is experiencing a drought, it is important that we have this public instrument that stimulates innovation and development. Many other countries are stimulating their business, while this government is giving us the most dramatic cut in district labor. SND is involved in developing founders and small businesses in a difficult start-up phase, and we note that the aquaculture industry and the IT industry are between those who respond most strongly to the proposal. There is no unknown right-wing policy to cut into selective nutritional support, but the Christian People's Party, who writes in its program that a single person must be willing to use economic tools to keep busy in District Norway, is more than we can understand. Now the government says that tax relief and road construction should weigh up against these cuts. But if we look at the dividend tax, it's not just skewly distributed, but it's also very bad for the districts. So almost half of the $1.3 billion tax is going to the Oslo area, and to a large extent to shareholders in larger, established companies. A state like Sogn and the Fjords, where I come from, would receive 1.2 pst. of the expenses of the dividend tax. The same counties will also receive NOK 15 million, but together this will only be a small sum compared to the colossal cuts in district law. Then you can wonder where there was the coastal manifesto that Right presented in the election campaign. For just farming and a part of the maritime industries, such as shipbuilding and others, the SND budget will be cut. In addition, there is a cut in research and development in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. So SV does the opposite. We are moving towards the cut-off proposals and, on the contrary, we are increasing the risk lending scheme by NOK 200 million. In the case of industrial research, SV has chosen to continue the so-called FUNN scheme. And not only do we continue it, we increase it by $400 million rather than create a tax intensive research and development system. The system has only existed for half a year, but it is very successful. It's tough, it's unbureaucratic, it's low-resource, and it's fast. It is our opinion that a back-up scheme will work much better than a tax incentive, because many of these companies do not have the liquidity needed to enter into a long-term research project. It also goes as far as a pretty long time from putting money into a research and development project until it returns a positive cash flow to the company. Therefore, a cash injection is much better, and it could be decisive whether the company should be able to enter a research enterprise. Even if the capital press is trying to create it as something else, and even if it's dangerous to talk about it for bad, when one comes from Sogn and Fjordane, who's had Opseth for many years in this room, I still try, because I know the body every day in my county what a struggle with out in the districts with too few and for bad roads and by road that's exposed to race. It is a framework for the transport of passengers and it is a framework for the transport of goods. SV almost double the race protection pot, and we'll add 130 million more to race protection in the coming year. We also increase the branched road frame by NOK 150 million. We have also put in place the compensation for the car diesel tax for the express buses that the Government proposed to remove. These buses are just important for the community provision in the districts, and that is not exactly good from now on. We'd have a reduced path offer if we didn't get the compensation back in place. So all of a sudden, SV has a very good district profile, and we have a very good municipal economy in our draft budget, and we should have liked to see these proposals get the multiple we think they're fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e255	The representative of Grande Røys stressed in the first part of his speech that it is important to invest heavily in well-being even in the years to come. I agree with that. It is also one of the main reasoning behind the Workers' Party in this financial position. We want to bet heavily on a clear and good social profile through kindergarten development, where we take a historic new impetus, by improving our hospital system, by continuing to bet on the care of the elderly and fulfilling the commitments we have entered into in this area, and not least, as the SV representative was also involved, strengthening the quality of our training at all levels. Strengthening well-being and getting more smoothing is a policy that the Labour Party and SV can be a long way off. What surprises us, however, in the Labour Party, is that SV will not be on the increase in the minimum deduction rate proposed by the Labour Party in the Financial Institution, from 22 pst. until 24 pst. Our scheme will provide a tax return of well over 700 million. kr in relation to the Bondevik II administration. SV only goes half the way in relation to our proposal. The proposal that we have made at this point will give a tax relief to those who spend less than $200,000 a year, and will really be a handshake to those who sit at the bottom of the table. I am surprised that SV will not be part of the Workers' Party's anti-discrimination policy in this area, and I would challenge the representative of Grande Røys to explain to us why this anti-discrimination and solidarity action cannot be supported by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e262	Thank you to the representative Reidar Sandal too much praise for SV's welfare policy! As he points out, it's quite right that we're a few about a lot, and we're a few about many of the devices. I am also very pleased that in my first period, in the Financial Committee, I experience that the Workers' Party and SV are some of the things about this much in the financial situation that lies ahead, as we actually are. When it comes to the direct challenge of the minimum deduction and the rate, we're not on the Labour Party's proposal, because we think we have one that's much better. We're increasing the minimum deduction to NOK 49 500. We have a rate of 23 pst. And we also have a deduction of labor income of 36,100 kroner. This, together with many other proposals that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, had before today, suggests that our package would provide a better profile and more tax relief for those who have income below NOK 300,000 than the government's proposal. So before the Workers' Party comes up with something that's better than ours, well, we're on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e269	The representative of Grande Røys was partly very concerned with quality in school, research and tax, but SV struggles with beaks and claws and in between also with lacquered nails against, among other things. thematic schools, exemption and increased focus on research there. But it's really okay if you just call it something that has to do with the environment and solidarity. In Akershus we almost wanted to set up a couple and thirty solidarity schools and then fill them with solidarity in practice, namely the substantive school policy of the Right. I'm not going to ask questions about school policy, but I'm going to draw some parallels to SV's love for some other words in the language, which is marked in plain words for all the money SV doesn't trust people most to have the wit and the sense, in SV's comments on charging policy. In an extremely stacked moment of a little flighty trembling moment, I thought the whole thing had happened. On page 23 of the budget statement, the SV ‘wanted a review of the charging system with a view to simplification and improvement’. But as everyone knows, neither Adam nor Eve got – nor gets part of us in this room – so too much time in paradise. «The aim is not to reduce the revenue of the State but to create a charging system which creates as little as possible unnecessary distortions...». The aim is to have charges such as ‘enhancing the environment, safety and health’. Dear child has many names, and the child was wrong in this context, for example. the electricity charge shall be ‘increased’. My question to SV is this: When should the SV in district policy start to worry that the lack of social environment, reduced health and lack of sense of security, especially in the districts, is the direct result of the impact of SV's vision on a good taxpayer being a completely exhausted taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e282	It is quite right that SV is involved in fees, not necessarily with the intention of getting less income into the welfare state, but to look at how they are built up. Therefore, we have also put in a proposal to look at the different types of fees we have, so that we are sure that the fees we pay actually have a mole. This applies in particular to excise duties. Although the replicator disagrees with me, I believe that most fees have a reasonable purpose. Some of them are either related to promoting environmentally friendly behaviour, or better health, for example. tobacco levies. Others are only intended to finance Community expenditure, such as: full VAT reform – and insofar as the employer’s fee. But there is also a bunch of large and small fees, which means that the sum of the fee system is slightly targeted. Therefore, SV wants a review of the charging system, precisely in view of both simplification and improvement. Should people understand the fees they pay, one must have a reasonable explanation for them, and then I think I'm in agreement with the replicator. So the aim of SV is not to have fewer taxes or fewer revenues to the state fund, but we need to have taxes that create the environment, that provide security and that promote health. In addition, they should contribute to the income of the State. This will probably lead to some fees falling off, while other charges will actually increase with SV’s proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e289	It seems that it is difficult to take a line on an SV without talking about fees. But there are a few things that amaze me – and I also intend to ask about fees. The representative of Grande Røys was inside at least two things in his post. One was environment, and the other was to the most extent district. As far as car charges are concerned, they are sky high in Norway. This has led us to have Europe – at least Western Europe – the oldest car park, with an average age of ten years. We have 700,000 vehicles on the roads that do not have exhaust cleaning; we have cars that are – if not dangerous to traffic, so at least – much less safe than the new cars. And what I'm asking is, why can't SV think of looking at the car charges based on an environmental aspect to renew the Norwegian car park and get these 700,000 green pigs off the road? Ten years old – and older – cars pollute ten times as much as new cars. That's the one question. And then I have a question that goes on something related, namely the petrol and diesel taxes, i.e. the fuel taxes, which are high, and which SV wants to do even higher. It must be that in a long-term country such as Norway, cars — and car use — must be the most sensible, perhaps the only realistic, means of delivery in the districts. When you choose to have some of the world's highest fuel charges, it must mean that you spend a lot of time on people living in the districts. This is not only true when they're going into central struts, but they also often have a great distance from their own centers, they have a great distance when they're going to participate in social life, they have to drive their children, etc. – they probably use the car more than people living in central areas, and often have no opportunity to use collective means of transport. Why does SV not want to help the districts and have a better district profile on their petrol and diesel taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e300	I thank the representative Monsen for the line, because it gave me the opportunity to come into one of our regional policy tools that I didn't get time for in my post. The representative Monsen is involved in car charges, where district-friendly or uninhabitable, with petrol and car charges. Then I would like the representative Monsen to say that he should support the SV's proposal for a differentiated annual charge on a car, i.e. that it will be a thousand times cheaper to own a car in the districts than in the central districts, precisely on the basis of the argument that districts have a much worse collective offer as an alternative. A thousand dollars a year in tax bills, I'm sure people in the districts aren't renting for. When it comes to the question of how expensive or cheap petrol or diesel is, it is a debate that is constantly repeating itself, and it is no longer true even if it is repeated often that we have a particularly high level of fuel and diesel charges. Measured against pay and how many hours you have to work to buy a litre of petrol, it's probably only Russia that's cheaper than Norway when it comes to the gas price – so I think I let it lie. But that is: we have suggested introducing a differentiated annual charge on a car, which makes it 1000 kroner cheaper to own a car in the districts. In addition, as opposed to the Progress Party, we're going to go into a freight-smoothing arrangement, so that as we stay out there, with a little less gas stations than here in the central east region, we're going to also be able to buy petrol at about the same pump price as in the central district. So the anti-fracture system is another system that I thought the Progress Party would consider being involved in reintroducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e315	The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have presented their proposals to the State budget. The starting point for the draft budget is the Sem Declaration, which is a common political platform for the three government parties. A central government, consisting of the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, is not the same – nor is it the same policy – as a cooperative government with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The stamp of the Christian People's Party in the draft budget has been called for. Has the Christian People's Party failed in its heart matters? No, we don't. In the cooperative government's draft budget, there is a formidable pediatric effort, as the Christian People's Party promised in the election campaign. In fact, it is a continuation of the Stoltenberg government’s proposal – just as full is the good Christian People’s Party policy. For the Christian People's Party, a bet on kindergartens is parallel to a continuation of the cash support, which ensures freedom of choice for families with children. And that is a direction the party wants in family policy. Another clearly Christian stamp of the People's Party is the commitment of the draft budget to assistance. Increased help for the world's poorest is and has always been good Christian People's Party policy. The same applies to environmental investment. The co-operation management has provided a budget with a good environmental profile. An offensive effort has been made on energy research by proposing an additional 30 million. kr for research at CO2-free gas power plants in addition to the 20 mills. kr as proposed by the Stoltenberg Government. This shows that the Cooperative Government wants to make Norway a progressive energy nation. There is potential both for the environment and for business in this initiative. The cooperation management suggests session allocations of 65 million. kr to collective action – a first and important step towards strengthening public transport, especially in large cities. The commitment to public transport also shows the willingness to reduce our emissions. The government is adding a raise for liming water and watercourses as well as increased appropriations for PCB clean-up. The co-operation administration has provided a forward-looking budget with a clear environmental profile, and this is also demonstrated by the increased framework for the Ministry of the Environment and the doubling of the environmental fund to DKK 2 billion. So a little bit about the government's proposal for a reduced alcohol tax. Drug abuse is one of the country’s biggest social medical problems. An effective drug policy requires both awareness-raising and restrictive alcohol policies. The relatively restrictive alcohol policy in Norway has been successful in several areas. Our level of injury is smaller than in other countries, and in recent years several EU countries have begun to consider more restrictive measures similar to Norwegian and Swedish ones. The wine monopoly must be maintained as an alcohol policy instrument. The Christian People's Party will reduce alcohol consumption in Norway and work to better control donation and turnover. The Christian People's Party wants a restrictive and responsible Russian policy. High alcohol charges help limit consumption. From this point of view, the Christian People's Party has stood in the first place in maintaining a high level of alcohol taxes. But illicit alcohol production and trafficking are a major problem that needs to be controlled. We need a thoughtful charging policy to reduce the illicit circulation of alcohol. We cannot close our eyes because high charges can lead to an increase in the proportion of uncontrolled turnover. It is important for the Christian People's Party to have controlled turnover. The government suggests that the alcohol charges should now be lowered. The main reason for lowering taxes on alcohol is to limit unregistered and uncontrolled turnover and consumption. The unregistered consumption consists of smuggling, home production, tax-free trade and border trade. The illicit circulation of alcohol represents an increasing social problem. The Christian People’s Party maintains its restrictive and responsible alcohol policy and considers it necessary to take the necessary action to reduce alcohol taxes so that a maximum proportion of the alcohol turnover is allowed to take legal, controlled and responsible forms. The challenge for the Christian People's Party in the Cooperative Government is both to focus on our important heart issues such as kindergarten, environment, assistance, school, voluntary organisations and drug policy and at the same time to find room for targeted tax and tax relief, especially for those with the lowest incomes and for business. It is clear to the Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Government in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e349	Norway has received a real Right-Registration with the extreme of the right forces as a backpack. «As you ship, you lie down», it is called in an old saying. This Bondevik government has nothing in common with the previous Bondevik government, which became known to govern according to the principles of the Anderledandeland. Now there is a high game of competition and individual freedom. Fortunately, school construction, kindergarten policy and health policy are continuing from the Stoltenberg government. I actually agree with the freedom of the individual, but the best democratic solutions are given freedom in a large community. I am sure that the Christian People's Party also meant at least until 19 October 2001. Community solutions also mean that districts are to be included in the national budget. For me, coming from North Norway, the Bondevik government's budget is almost District Enemy. Bondevik says to the World on 19 October this year that the new government ‘will also pursue an active district policy’. It's not just useful to want, even a prime minister must have the courage to act. However, the 2002 budget action of the Bondevik government is in completely the opposite direction to a positive development for the districts. Only four and a half lines of the Sem Declaration are devoted to district policy. These lines mention that the primary industries will be the central industries. But what's going to help when you have $300 million in the same breath? In the case of agricultural aid funds? Among other things, there are: grants for building development and the Value Creation Programme for Food. Is this to strengthen primary industries? Everyone in this country has got the Bondevik government cut in SND funds. An active SND apparatus is essential for the development of Nordic business. A total of projects will be lost if the SND reduction proposal is implemented. Nord-Norway does not have a capital and ownership structure that can replace an up-to-date State aid and organisation apparatus. It is the risky part of projects that SND has to take. The banks don't. In North Norway, there are many viable companies that had never seen the light of day without support and loans from SND in a vulnerable start-up phase. This is where LO and NHO stand together in the fight to preserve and strengthen SND. But there's just as much going on in small municipalities with the disappearance of municipal nutrition funds. For many small and medium-sized enterprises out in the smallest municipalities, this money from a local food fund is or is not for the enterprise and the housing. It is not useful to say that half a percentage of interest rates are offset by these state measures. Should you believe the OECD, is not interest cut any of course, and how will the Government defend cut in the SND and cut in the nutrition fund, cut in the price subsidy, cut in the premium for the express buses and cut in the transfers to the municipalities if the large interest cut does not come? The price subsidy is a matter for itself. That a loss of oil and petrol subsidies can contribute to an increase in petrol prices in North Norway of up to 50 cents, does not seem to worry about the government at all. At the same time, the special subsidy for some goods was cut to North Norway, among others. fruit. What is the point of talking about diet and nutrition? In the worst case, the loss of the premium for the express buses may have significant negative consequences. From Fauske – the municipality I live in – and northwards there are no rail tracks, ergo there is no competition. Nevertheless, these express buses will lose the grant, and perhaps we can stand without a collective offer from Fauske and northwards – i.e. We're going to get completely out of it. Of course, you can take flights – with the increases in flight prices that Nord-Norway now gets by adding VAT to the purchases to the companies. Only Bodø and Tromsø have a seat charge, so the cancellation of this fee does not help the rest of North Norway any things. This is the truth of the commitment to district policy by the new Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e379	A year ago, the Labour Party Government then put forward a budget of DKK 12 billion in tax increases and tax increases. This year the amount is the same in the proposals of the Cooperative Government. But the sign is the opposite. The increase has turned to corresponding reliefs. The government’s proposal for tax relief is one of the biggest tax reductions in recent Norwegian history. The proposal of the Cooperation Party is a budget which, in addition to providing tax relief to people with normal incomes, also provides for a tax policy promoting the creation of value added and opportunities for Norwegian business. During 2002, air passenger charges, investment charges and, in particular, double taxation of dividends on shares are eliminated, as well as reductions in charges for goods placed on the market. At the same time, the minimum deduction is increased and housing taxes are reduced. This gives clear signals of a new course and direction, both for Norwegian business and for most people – a course that was also clearly desired by the voters at the autumn elections and reflected in the government shift, which a majority in the Stortinget actually wanted. Despite large tax reliefs, the cooperative parties' proposals for the budget provide for a reduction in interest rates. Norway has an interest rate level up to twice that of countries that we compare with in the EU system. A government budget of tightness that provides room for interest reduction is therefore essential for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, for families with a high debt burden, and not least for the economy of Norwegian municipalities, which currently have a total debt of up to DKK 80 billion. Thus, a reduced level of interest rates is a central objective of the cooperation parties. For a family with 1 million. kr in debt will have an interest rate decrease of 1 pst. a net savings of more than SEK 7 000 per year. For Norwegian municipalities, a similar decrease in interest rates may mean an improvement in the total municipal economy of up to 800 million. kr. A reduced level of interest rates is not least an important element in achieving a moderate main settlement between the social partners in this spring. In order to achieve all of this, it is essential that the budgetary rigour be maintained and that the balance be not weakened. Just as tax reductions are historical, the Workers' Party's reverse operations from previous positions and priorities are historic in this budgetary process – from massive tax increases especially for businesses last year to the fact that the Workers' Party also sees the need for relief. The election in September will take responsibility – or honour if you wish – for the rapid movement of the Workers' Party to new positions in both fiscal and social policy. Perhaps the best example of reverse operations in both content and rhetoric is the double taxation of dividends, for which the Workers' Party is now fully committed, after firmly rejecting it throughout the 1990s, in the context of neutrality of the form of financing, which was introduced in the 1992 tax reform. Gradually, the Workers' Party has bowed to Lo's claim to have a so-called special tax on the return on investment in the business sector, and the earlier description by the Workers' Party of dividends as a desired risk capital investment for business has been replaced by the rhetorical term 'tax reliefs to the rich', which we have heard from several speakers here today. It is the value creation of the mainland economy that ultimately determines the development of the Norwegian welfare society. The majority of jobs in mainland Norway are found in small and medium-sized enterprises. If we are to maintain business activity in this type of enterprise, we need to strengthen long-term Norwegian ownership, Norwegian investors and through Norwegian jobs. We need a wide-ranging value creation in all of these smaller businesses, which amount to over 95 pst. of private sector jobs. Then it is quite difficult to explain to those who have intended to start something of their own, that if you were to take out their already taxed saved equity in the form of dividends, you would have to pay taxes once again – so that it is actually better passive to have the capital standing as bank deposits. The cooperation parties and the Government's proposal to abolish this special tax gives a principle similarity in tax terms to the different types of funding. It won't be cheaper to finance a loan than to finance it with equity. Increased predictability is needed for future value creation and for the competitiveness of business. There is therefore reason for industry to welcome the reform of income and wealth taxes announced by government parties in the Sem Declaration. It is also worth noting that in the position of the Financial Committee, there is a majority of parties which, in their respective comments, formulate in substance the principles of a new tax reform: flattening and fairer tax systems, increased deductions and reduced top-level taxes, the removal of the divisional model, reductions in property taxes and, in particular, the important concept of internationally competitive corporate taxation. If not least the latter principle could be the foundation for the treatment of a new tax system by the Government and the Storting, Norwegian industry, Norwegian investors and Norwegian workers have reason to see with optimism about the future. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e396	The President is asking for the speaking time to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e399	If the Central Party had adopted its draft budget, it would have had a government budget with a focus on prevention, value creation, district and distribution. Then those who get the greatest benefit from the removal of dividend tax would have had a few hundred thousand less left to invest in lodges and swimming pools. The 84 who have the greatest merit of this proposal would lose the million that they are now facing from the Government. At the same time, many individuals and businesses who see the resources in the districts, who see the potential for jobs and construction, who see that a good rural policy is also a good urban policy, would have the necessary arrangements and risk capital for it. If the Centre Party got through, much more women and much more low-paid people would be left with more of their income. The centre party simply suggests that the rate at the minimum deduction be increased to 27,5 p.m., which for those who claim 150000 kroner, is NOK 8 000 more in tax-free income compared to today. In addition, the centre party will have a tax deduction for a single-person household with income below NOK 150 000 and proposes as the first step in a escalating plan NOK 500 in 2002. We're going to lower step 2 in the top estimate, and we're going to add up to our own equalization billion. If we had had an impact, it would have resulted in 150 million. In addition to new after-care measures for drug users, escalating against SIFO’s social assistance contributions, kindergarten instead of cash support for social assistance clients, and all families, including the poorest, were given the opportunity to use child welfare and the single-use benefit for the young. We would also have room to strengthen child protection and reverse the unsolidarized support proposal that the Workers' Party has put forward, followed by Bondevik II. We are some of the people in the four largest cities that support housing will be increased, but we are deeply disputed that the rest of the housing beneficiaries in this country will have to pay for it. If the Center Party got multiple numbers, we'd probably have dropped some of the many headlines that tell about the everyday life in Kommune-Noreg. If you do a lot of good work and do a lot of good services in the municipalities today, we're afraid we don't like them too much. On the other hand, we are talking about worn-out parents who have to send their grown disabled children to the door because they can't do it anymore, because the municipalities don't do it. We're talking about young children's parents who are in line and wondering where the new kindergartens and the uplifting of all the schools actually went off. Your local authorities don't have money for this. It shows the budgetary procedure in each municipality. The children's room calls for caution in relation to the contents of the schools. And it's unfortunately also created great uncertainty in relation to a worthy ending of the seniority plan. The central party takes KS – the municipalities’ own organisation – seriously. They report a need for $7 billion this year and for the next year to follow up what Stortinget has promised the inhabitants of each municipality. If the Central Party had got several numbers, the municipalities would have funds for the tasks that the municipalities are now required to do – not immediately, but in the longer term. They would have, however, as a first step in a plan to correct the imbalances that are currently in the local government sector, $12 billion for the cancellation of debt. We do not understand that eradicating debt to the Gardermoban is more complete than that to the municipalities in order to keep up the supply of children, young people and the elderly. The central party's budget is a budget for reduced differences. The Christian People's Party and the Left have replaced the Center Party with the Right. Mr Bondevik II's budget is marked by that. The dominance is so clear that it gives reason to ask questions about the part of the Christian People's Party that is engaged in an offensive district operation, of subsampling, of reducing differences, in fact is also replaced by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e414	The Progress Party has taken serious action in its alternative state budget to address the challenges facing Norway. The Norwegian state currently has a very good economy. At the same time, we have an unreasonably high tax level, which is among the highest in the world. A high tax level and a complicated tax system act in many ways as sand in social machinery. It reduces productivity growth and thus also future value creation, while at the same time it costs an unnecessary amount to manage, both for taxpayers and for the public. An unnecessarily high level of taxation will also result in a greater flow of capital to the rest of the world and also a greater dependence on public transfers, with the negative consequences. Therefore, the Progress Party sees tax relief and a simpler tax system as one of the most important provisions for a good and stable development of wealth. In our alternative state budget, therefore, we have proposed tax reliefs of nearly 15 billion dollars more than what the government has proposed. The biggest part of our tax package is that we increase the deduction by a total of NOK 9900 in Class 1 and DKK 19800 in Class 2. This costs a total of NOK 6.2 billion and will, of course, mean the highest percentage of taxes for those with the lowest income. In our opinion, it is also those who need the most tax relief. We also found that it is directly wrong to use administrative resources to tax them with the absolute lowest incomes. That is why we have proposed in our budget that the so-called credit card limit be set at NOK 50 000, and that no one who thinks below this amount should have to pay taxes. Adjustment of the special levy for the elderly and disabled from NOK 17 640 to NOK 25 000 has also been proposed to strengthen the economic situation of these groups. The increase in the fishing and seafarers’ deduction of NOK 15 000 is also a priority in our budget. This is an example of a deduction that has not been adjusted since 1992. Apart from this, the framework conditions for competitive maritime transport have been improved in a number of areas. There is also something that we see as absolutely necessary to secure these workplaces. We have also proposed that the entry point for top taxes should be set at 350 000 kroner in Class I and 403 000 kroner in Class II. This means that income families also receive top taxes, not top taxes, as the Bondevik government has provided in its budget. Of course, the party of progress is also opposed to the other tax reinforcements proposed by the Government. This applies, inter alia, to: the untimely tax tightening in the case of a company car and running goods. This tax tightening works poorly on the ground and will open up an increase in pay demands and thus increase price pressure. As with other tax incentives, this increase will also reduce the potential for a reduction in interest rates. According to our arrangement, everyone with a fortune of less than 800000 kroner in Class I and 830000 kroner in Class II should be exempted from State property taxes. In our opinion, it should be possible to save a few dollars, for example. as a security for old age, without being punished for it in the form of State wealth taxes. The Progress Party's alternative state budget is a well-thought-out, well-worked and holistic budget that will benefit most people in terms of better purchasing power and greater value creation for the future. We are also quite certain that our alternative government budget provides a better basis for lower wage and price rises, higher productivity growth, higher labour supply and, therefore, lower interest rates than the government's government budget will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e431	The values on which we base our policies should not be just for decoration. They should be the guide to political decisions, and not least there should be consistency between what we say and what we do. The Bondevik II government says a lot about many things, and we can agree with a lot. For example, the Christian People's Party in particular says that they are opposed to increased differences, but in the proposals of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left they give primarily lower taxes to those who serve the most. There is evidence that the increased differences we have witnessed in recent years are derived from the increased dividends. The Equalization Communication, as presented by the first Bondevik government, showed that it was just the income from capital that contributed most to increasing differences in our society. When, according to Minister of Finance Foss’ estimates, the Bondevik II government will provide hundreds of people with the highest income over 1.5 million. kr in tax reliefs, while revenues below NOK 300000 receive zero in tax reliefs, the Bondevik II government is moving in the opposite direction compared to the analyses provided by the forecast. The Labour Party has taken new and important steps to improve the distribution and priority of tax relief at work — shown in action that it will pay off to work. Tax rules must be designed in such a way that participation in the labour market seems motivating. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the minimum deduction to NOK 43 000 while increasing the rate to 24 pst. In relative terms, these two measures will provide the most tax relief to those with the lowest income. The working party also continues the same allocations to those with low and medium pension incomes. The Workers' Party is taking the initiative in tax relief of NOK 2300 for a single pensioner with NOK 160000 in pension, compared to the tax scheme of the Bondevik II Government. It is important that a tax system be designed in such a way as to ensure allocation reasons. But the big surprise in the budget is the change in industrial policy we have now witnessed. With a total cut of over DKK 1 billion in food and district aid, this is a dramatic turnaround. The budget proposals of the Bondevik II Government give a serious boost to new industries. In particular, reduced risk-absorption opportunities for the development of the aquaculture industry will have consequences. This is a priority industry in Norway, because there is a high potential in the future. Now, at best, development will take longer, and in the worst case, the industry will stagnate. Development projects in the petroleum sector will also depend on equity, which is currently not available. Tomorrow's business life will only be shaped by established enterprises in a fiscal position, while entrepreneurs and people with a preoccupation with and a willingness to take new initiatives will be deprioritised. Unborn business is left to itself, and it becomes more difficult to lead good ideas to commercialisation. It is also a paradox that while the Bondevik II government is preaching internationalisation in a global market, incentives and incentives are being phased out internationally. Everyone must be allowed to think something about developments in society. Especially the Christian People's Party and the Left had strong opinions about Difference Norway. They felt that they too had to be taken into account. But it's not just useful with temptations and spells. The government must present proposals for action. That's the government's job. The proposal in the Bondevik II budget goes against what was said about better conditions for those who have the least. It is a backward allocation and district.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e461	I will first be allowed to quote from Dagbladet on 28 October: ‘When an incoming Social Minister from the Right says that the most important thing is to eliminate poverty, it hurts.’ It was the former State Council Grete Knudsen from the Workers' Party who said. Yeah, that's understandable. But I can tell you that it didn't feel very good to be branded as heartless by the Workers' Party's representatives, who, throughout the election campaign, constantly insisted that the welfare state would be devastated if the Right came to power. Several veterans of the Workers' Party have admitted and complained that the Workers' Party failed those sitting at the bottom of the table. For us from the government parties, it feels good to have a social minister who really takes poverty and rushes seriously. The government has a social minister who goes out and meets the people, listens and takes the individual seriously. The government will focus on more personal and targeted measures to better help far more than today. The government has so far invested approximately. 250 million. In order to start the fight against poverty, an action plan is to be drawn up. There is a need for a common promise and for combating poverty in the future. It is therefore positive that the Labour Party is now willing to participate in the important work that needs to be done. In the first place, the government will start with measures that will especially facilitate the everyday life of the disabled with children and some old-age pensioners. This is done, inter alia, by: to adjust the guidance rates for social assistance, to raise the child’s rates in the guidance guidelines, to increase the child’s supplement to disability pensioners by DKK 5 136 per year. year, and adjust the price of light and heat in the housing aid scheme, which has not been adjusted since 1996. Municipalities are advised to keep the cash support out of the calculation of social assistance. The net tax-free income limit for pensioners is increased by NOK 1000. Today's self-employment in medical services and medicine is reduced to NOK 1 350, as opposed to the Stoltenberg government's proposal, which increased to NOK 1500. The blue prescription system is being introduced again, despite the fact that the government really wanted a better system for chroniclers and disabled people with a high consumption of healthcare. Here the government will come back with a much more striking system. The electricity charges are reduced by 2 cents from 1 January. Unfortunately, we are facing another major challenge, which will need swift and comprehensive action. The welfare state has for a long time been struggling with a serious social problem in relation to drug use. More and more children and young people are getting hooked on drugs, with subsequent severe mental disorders, often leading to fatal overdose or suicide. What used to be a big - city problem is now a daily diet all over the country. In recent times, among many frightening examples, I can mention that in the VG on Tuesday 18 October, 11- and 12-year-olds are buying heroin at Plata in Oslo. On Friday, November 2, the newspaper said: ‘Every fifth youth in Røros uses dope. The school was closed.» What's wrong? Who cares? Have we – the adult community – stopped seeing the children, see the young ones? Have we stopped listening to children and young people? I want to invite the Stortinget to a wide mobilization and war against the drug evil. In this context, close cooperation between several professional bodies, including psychiatry, drug, child and family protection, as well as voluntary organisations, is required. Close cooperation in drug treatment and psychiatry is important. It is therefore positive that the Minister of Health and the Department will allow the Ruchapittel to follow the psychiatry when the State takes over the hospitals. For 2002, the government entered in the budget 20 million. low-threshold health measures for drug users and 35 million. medically assisted rehabilitation. The government will come back with a separate action plan on drugs, which will address both prevention and rehabilitation. In this context, I hope that the Storting will have a broad debate on how to go to a common war to combat drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e486	A socialist policy for Norway next year would be to spend our money on redistribution, international solidarity, the environment and education. Unfortunately, that's not what we're going to get. We get a civil policy with big B. That means bigger class divisions, no new commitment to meet our climate commitments, no debt cancellation, increased aid or opening up oil money to industrial development in developing countries. And that means a betrayal of the promises given to Norwegian youth in education. Just the situation of young people should be much more prominent in this debate. The size is full of wealthy middle-aged men. Once again, the needs of the wealthy middle-aged men have reached the state budget. Who is responsible for removing the dividend tax? Who is it that serves on tax havens on options? Who's that new top-tax entry point going to make? There is a clear overweight of just the wealthy middle-aged men in these groups. This money, which is spent to give more to those who already have a lot, SV will spend for other purposes, among other things. to improve the condition of young people. Who would benefit from better student funding with scholarships and higher cost standards? Who would be the one who would earn $1,500 a month of pediatric fees? Who's the one who would earn $400 million on SV's grant? kr for free teaching material in secondary school? Who would make the 10 billion SEK SV over 4 years will use to refurbish high school? Who is it that would profit from the construction of the 2,500 cheap rental houses SV will build next year? And who would profit from raising the credit card limit to NOK 35,000, as we propose in our alternative budget? The students would have earned it. This would mean repatriation of the full-time student and the end of the student's double role as both people under education and cheap labour. Babies’ parents would benefit from cheap kindergartens and cheap SFOs. Young people in the start-up phase would benefit from cheaper rental homes and less pressure in the housing market. Students in high school would benefit from free learning material and independence from their parents ’ wallet. Students in high school would benefit from spending money on upgrading their workplaces. And most of the young people would have earned the credit card limit raised. Not least now, when millions of people are collecting their dividends tax-free, the unfairness of the fact that young people are taxing their summer jobs is particularly striking. Politics is about choosing sides between different interests in society. The priorities and choices we make are just an expression of what we set first and who is most important. In order to give priority to something, we have to choose something else. Old Brumm policies do not exist when making budgets. No one can afford everything, and so the real priorities come to the surface. We in SV later do not like our policies are as good for everyone; there will be no buying party in Holmenkollocken with our tax arrangements. Similarly, the Government’s budget is an expression of priorities: taxation is more important than public transport than cohesion than youth action. No one can claim the opposite after seeing where the money goes in the government budget. What are the consequences of this, for example. for young people, especially those who do not have a father or a mother who can raise large sums of dividends? I saw one of the consequences last week. Then I was visiting the municipality of Os in Hordaland. The municipal poverty in Norway has shown that the majority of the municipal government has thrown its eyes at the municipality's only youth offer, the all-activity house, where young people can have a meeting place, make events, have parties and meetings. The youth offer was to become a balancing item on the municipal budget. For these young people, it is completely incomprehensible that this can happen in the downtrodden Norway. Now the municipality of Os is not only the victim of small transfers from Stortinget, but also of the board of the Progress Party there and its some special use of money. But I still think the cut in Os-Youth's offer is symptomatic of the situation in many places in Kommune-Norway. Neither the previous government nor the new government has shown the willingness to increase transfers to the municipalities to a level that could prevent this. Another consequence we saw a week ago in the streets outside here. The student organisations and organisations organised a mass protest on how many thousands of students and students demanded that the decision to abolish the school book loan scheme and not to raise the student grant should be reversed. On their slogans, they accused the Government of the Theft. I guess such an accusation is not so parliamentary, so I'm not going to repeat it here, but just stick to the intention of the slogan. It's in any case a lifting breach of dimensions from the government parties. Year after year, the promise has been given that the educational material in school will be free of charge. I myself participated in a lot of school elections in the election campaign in the fall. It used to work so that the students asked if we were in order for the school books and educational materials to be free of charge. It is perhaps the case that students in Norwegian schools have been most concerned about. Then always used to put your hands in the weather from the vast majority of the parties in the panel, which once again agreed that now something would be done with the situation of the educational materials in the school. This is a promise that has been made for ten years to Norwegian youth, and very little has happened. So now we've actually gotten to yours that even the 100 million. kr, which after much about and but had been put in place in the lending scheme, was removed. There is a scheme that we in SV have always thought was too bad, but which was a step on the way to the appropriations needed to make Norwegian students independent of their mother's and father's wallet. Those who have to be concerned about growing political disdain among young people have reason for reflection. People get angry when they see that our society is flooded with money, that glass and marble malls are built next to schools that don't have money for the most elementary maintenance, and that in a situation where private consumption is growing, people still have to pay money – which very many of these young people have trouble getting to school. The explanation that this was done because the arrangements were not good enough does not hold water. The SV share, as I said, the assessment, neither the proposed lending scheme nor the proposed conditions for the cancellation of the scholarships were rules that we had the sense of. But these appropriations could of course have been given with other and better conditions. The government didn't, because the money was going to help finance completely different purposes. The poor community economy and public sector constraints are often presented as irresistible, most of which the Storting must do in order to adapt to globalisation and the new era. But the Storting is not without a room for action. On the contrary, with our alternative budget, SV shows that even within the framework of what the other parties consider to be responsible, it had begun to create a quite different development in Norway – a development that would create a completely different everyday life for the poor, which would reverse development so that we could meet the ever-increasing need for a living welfare place and which would give many young people an improved life. An unfair policy for major class divisions could have been replaced by a fair policy for distribution. Unfortunately, we have a government that won't give priority to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e520	The representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken addressed many issues in which SV and the Workers' Party are close to each other – study funding and free school books, to mention something. I will also address a matter where it turns out that SV and the Workers' Party are quite close to each other. On 15 November, the newspaper announced that SV has now changed its mind on social assistance rates. ‘SV has now decided not to give social assistance recipients cash support,’ writes the Newspaper, quoting SV’s Karin Andersen: ‘Yes, because they receive a reward for not using kindergarten. And that's unfortunate." In addition, it appears from the same statement that SV will also reduce their own proposal for social assistance rates as they profiled in the election campaign, with a further 2000 kroner, which they thought would go to car rental. Now it's not the first time there's a breach of promises in this country, and it's allowed to change my mind, so I might not be so provoked. But this was one of the most important issues of SV in the election campaign and one where you moralized over the Workers' Party. Our argument was that social welfare beneficiaries who have a very difficult economic situation should not be further motivated to opt out of a nursery provision. Now SV has quite the same argument, and now SV believes that the bets for which they joined the election campaign were probably too high. So I want to ask the representative Lysbakken: what does he think is morally right: to be honest on the day everyone else comes in with an offer, or to be the one who promises more to everyone, but gallops away from the promises when the voices are counted, and it turns out that you've got more magnification representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e533	The representative of Konglevoll is right in saying that, for our part, it is an important goal to improve the situation of social welfare recipients with children. We want primarily to raise the child supplements, but if that is not possible, we are on our proposal that the cash support should not be included in social assistance. It's just that it's crucial for us to do something about the situation for this group. The most important thing here is that social welfare recipients with children retain child welfare, and not, as today, are discriminated against. So while all the other groups in our society, even the millionaires and the wealthiest, are left out, those who have the least need to be left out. It is an area where we record that we have not yet got the Workers' Party fully with us, but this is of course an opportunity to come after. With regard to the respondent's last call to me, it is not that SV has made an offer in connection with this budget. On the contrary, we stick to the same framework as the Labour Party has put into its budget, for example. But we're doing a lot of work that's going to reverse even more the bias we have between the private and the public sector, and that's going to do something about the social bias distribution in our society. There are promises that we will stand by also the day we become an even bigger party than today. That will just be the point for us with increased influence to implement a policy that is our own, and the one that we actually stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e540	I'm going to discuss a slightly different youth issue with the representative of SV. These are the young people who want to become seafarers, and who were represented on the outside here today. They feel that the possibilities of continuing to have Norwegian seafarers are exacerbated; it is too unpredictable. The reimbursement system we have for seafarers may not have been good enough. It has gone up and down both with it and with the yard support, and some have had problems with those arrangements, because they may have thought that the shipowners' interests have been as important as the employees' interests. However, it is a fact that in order for young people to start in the industry and gain leadership in the industry, they must start from below. I'm a little uncertain about where SV is in that picture, if one wants us to get action that makes Norwegian seafarers competitive in those parts of the industry where one has competition with countries where there are actually tax subsidies inside the picture in relation to the seafarers' wages. It is then a small challenge for SV: whether they want to join and secure schemes so that both in the North Sea and on the ferries in relation to neighbouring countries can have tax subsidies for these occupational groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e547	The representative Morten Lund refers to the demonstration that was outside here earlier today, with representatives of the seafarers' trade unions. We have all sorts of understanding and solidarity with those who have come into a difficult situation in a pressurised industry. But for us there are some important fundamental questions in this matter. It is not possible for the Norwegian authorities to enter into and operate tax subsidies on the different sectors of business that may at any time be subject to fierce international competition. Nor can it be that it is the task of the state to step in if the shipping companies are unable to pay ordinary rent to Norwegian seafarers. In an internationalised economy, a number of industries are under heavy pressure, for example. compensation of employees. And there will be a number of industries that in that case will be able to meet a corresponding requirement for us. I think it's a point to ask Morten Lund if we shouldn't make a similar claim to the shipping companies and to the industry, if they don't also have a responsibility for Norwegian seafarers, and if it really is that there's a question to be pushed over to the public. In addition, we know that even with the reimbursement scheme, the shipping companies add very much to foreign seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e556	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e559	The family policy of the co-operation administration is based on putting children at the centre. The basis for children’s safety and personality development is provided in the family and through association with parents. It is the parents who have the primary responsibility for their children. However, in cases where the home does not have the power to carry out its care tasks, society has an obligation to organise schemes that ensure that all children receive good care and growth conditions. The Government wants to strengthen the prevention of child protection to a greater extent and will, in particular, facilitate schemes in which parents and the environment around them are given the opportunity to perform their tasks. We face two main challenges in kindergarten policy: completing the development and reducing the level of parental pay. I can see that there is a broad consensus on this. There is also a broad consensus that it is necessary to provide the sector with more resources to achieve its objectives. The 2002 budget proposal is therefore expansive and represents an increase of DKK 1 billion. This effort is important in order to improve the operational situation of kindergartens and should make it possible to reduce parental payments in both municipal and private kindergartens. There is also room in the budget to increase the commitment to quality development for kindergartens. The Co-operation Administration is thus committed to continuing the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government. At the same time, we have said that we aim to change the main instrument in the sector: public funding. Today's financing system has remained virtually unchanged since the 1970s. The State grants the earmarked operating grant to all approved kindergartens. Municipal funding, on the other hand, is voluntary. Municipalities have been entrusted with many major tasks in recent years, and with tight budgets, child care has probably often been lost in the municipal priority of funding. This has resulted in a difficult and unforeseeable economic situation for private kindergartens in particular. For families with children, the result has been that places have become expensive, and there are still too many families who do not get the nursery services they want for their children. For the co-operation administration, it has been important to recognise that we do not believe it is realistic to achieve the objectives of full needs coverage and lower parental pay if we do not at the same time do anything with the instruments to control the sector. We don't think it's enough just to give more money, we also have to grab new ones. In the Sem Declaration, we have therefore announced that we aim to shift the funding of the sector and bring together all government grants into one state grant. Such conversion is extensive and requires significant preparatory work before it can be carried out. The co-operation administration sees marriage as the best framework for children's growth, and will protect and strengthen marriage as a way of life. However, many families are struggling in today’s society and need assistance to solve their life’s problems. For these, the work of family protection constitutes an important contribution. In order to ensure continued well-functioning family protection, in line with the challenges facing them, the Government will make an increased commitment in 2002 to the development of family protection competences. A forward-looking family policy must take into account all types of families, and not least all people must be respected and treated as equivalent, regardless of sex, age, religion, skin color, ethnicity, functionality and sexual orientation. Women and men must have equal opportunities to participate in working and organisational life and in family life. And the public has a special and special responsibility to ensure real equality. We are experiencing an increasing purchasing pressure in society today among children and young people, and there is a clearly more aggressive marketing targeting this particular group. Therefore, children and young people need to be trained to be more conscious and critical of advertising and the commercial impact they are exposed to. The co-operation administration will maintain a restrictive line for advertising aimed at children and sees it as particularly important that not kindergartens and schools become arenas for marketing and commercialisation. I believe that we on the part of the Government have laid a good foundation for an offensive initiative in the areas of the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e581	I look at the additional proposition to the Bondevik II government that the proposal for approval and quality requirements in the child protection institutions is being withdrawn. The Stoltenberg government considered that good care for children in a child-rescue institution was too important to wait for the work on the child-rescue message to follow up the Befring Committee’s investigation into the location of responsibility for child-rescue to the state or state. Therefore, the proposal on the recognition of child protection institutions was promoted. I believe these children have waited long enough. Can the Council of State tell Stortinget when the Bondevik government will re-submit the matter, in order to ensure these children a safe and well-growth and protect them from poor care services that are actually driven by market forces? I hope the Council of State agrees that these children have waited long enough, and that something has to be done quickly. When does that come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e588	It is true that we have chosen to withdraw, for the time being, the motion for a resolution on the approval and quality requirements of child protection institutions. But we do not because we believe that we should not come back with this matter, and not because we do not believe that the quality of child protection is incredibly important. The reason why we have withdrawn it is that in the wake of the health reform, the hospital reform, there are a number of areas that we need to look at, among other things. child protection and care, in a context. This has also been the issue of Storting. The issue of health reform in all these areas was not assessed in the work on the Odelstingsproposition on the recognition and quality of child protection and in the child protection institutions. That's why we've withdrawn it. We want to see this in a whole. We'll be back as soon as we can, and we're in the government starting to see all of these areas in context. It's about division of tasks into county, municipality and state.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e595	That was very good in what the Council of State said. It is good to hear that the Council of State prioritises preventive child protection, with the child in focus. It was also good to hear from the State Council that the parents have the primary responsibility. But not one word was mentioned about the cash support, despite the fact that this is one of the Christian People's Party's heart matters and until 1998 was even more extreme than the proposals of the Progress Party are today. The Sem Declaration states: ‘A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equality for young children’s parents is that families of children have the finances to choose the form of care’.» Furthermore, it states that the Cooperative Government will continue the cash support and increase the amount in the period. The party to the progress is, with effect for the budget currently under consideration, the only party that goes in to extend the cash support to more than one and to increase the freedom of choice. As far as I can see, the cash support has not increased in the cooperative government proposal for the 2002 budget. And there is hardly any doubt that the signals from the Sem statement have created expectations in many families with young children. And when, in the 2002 draft budget, the promises, which are black in white in the Sem Declaration, are not found, it is clear that this creates uncertainty and unforeseeability for them. My question to the Council of State Davøy is therefore: When does the Co-operation Government intend to fulfill its promises of freedom of choice for young children’s parents and increase the cash support? Is it about increasing the amount of those who already have cash support, or is it also about extending the cash support to four-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e611	I thank you for the rose that came in relation to what I have said. I can only repeat that preventive child protection is becoming an enormously important matter in the future. In the case of cash support, it shall be increased, that is correct. But if there is to be freedom of choice for parents, we believe that the most important measure right now is to have enough kindergartens. That is why this is also a very important priority. If the representative Woldseth had read the Sem statement very carefully, she would also find an order in these measures. It says that kindergartens should be given priority first, then an increase in cash support. And then there's a third point that I can mention when I'm in the middle of it, and that's that the paper issue is going to be increased. So we've made an order of these measures. In this case, the cash support should be increased directly for those who have it per year. Today, and possibly extended to new age groups, I must be allowed to come back to it when we have determined what this should contain, and when the cash support is to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e623	In Sweden, no kindergarten space costs more than $1,140 a month, while the average price here in the country is unfortunately several thousand dollars higher. The government of Stoltenberg proposed in its budget proposal that municipalities be given an obligation to provide nursery facilities. We think that in SV is one saying, not only for the children who are in kindergarten queue, but also for SV, who have suggested it several times. The Stoltenberg government is also adding DKK 1 billion to the nursery allowance, mainly for development, but also a small sum to bring down the price. Nevertheless, this is far from the promise of NOK 1500. SV has put money into its budget so that one can take the first step towards approaching the Swedish price. Our promise will allow us to reduce the parental payment to $1,500 a month next year. In the election campaign, the Christian People’s Party promised its constituents that the children’s home price would now drop to NOK 1,500 a month. Unfortunately, we thought that we saw little of that in the budget proposal from the Cooperation Government. Nor in the Sem statement is it concrete what the price this government thinks it is reasonable to pay for a nursery place. Will the Council of State ensure that the Christian People's Party's electoral guarantee of $1,500 a month is reached? And can we get a timetable from the Council of State for how the Government will achieve this goal? Can the Council of State answer as to why no room was found to approach this objective in the Government's budget proposal? What was more important this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e638	To take the last one first, I want to strongly reject that we're not approaching. A significant increase in the operating grant for kindergartens has been introduced to ensure that municipal and private kindergartens are able to reduce the parental payment. That being said, I would say that we imagine that in the period there will be an approximate halving of the parent price in relation to the level today. The size has said that they want a 50/30/20 share in the payment of kindergartens, 50 pst. from the state, 30 pst. from the municipality and 20 pst. from the parents. We'll follow this up in a different way. We want to give one state grant, which will be 80 pst. If we assume that the level of parental pay is at today, and imagine that the parents would pay 20 pst. Of this, it would per. Today it has been approx. NOK 1500. We're going to make this happen over a four-year period, of course, subject to price increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e648	The working party follows the promises of the electors in the selection: better hospitals, development of care for the elderly, more reasonable medicines for the elderly and disabled, better quality in school, upgrading of school buildings and no self-payment in school. In addition, we promised several kindergartens and lower parental pay. The Labour Party is pleased that the Bondevik II Government is following up these good welfare offerings, because they are important. And I think it's great that in 2002 thousands of new kindergartens can be built again, and besides that the budget provides a basis for reducing parental pay. Because it's too tall, we're all a few about it. We've got extra action rooms to use more kroner. The working party will spend SEK 1.4 billion on actions for those who have the most difficulty. And we'll give tax relief, mostly to those who charge less than NOK 175 000. The Christian People's Party will give priority to tax relief for those who think the most. We see from tables that the 3,000 with the highest income will get a tax bill of 190,000 kroner on average. 190 000 kroner in tax bills are more than a lot of people I know, people who work and have full income, so they don't think anymore. But it's important to give these treasures, my government party. But what's most dramatic in this budget setting is a change of business policy, cut through the SND and cut through the districts. Some 15 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have borrowed and contributed to the SND development project. 80 pst. of the projects on which the SND is involved are successful, showing reports. Since 1993, SND has contributed to the arrival of between 40 000 and 50 000 jobs in the districts. It's been a very broad deal to bet on, for example, a lot of money. the rearing of fish in all variants. Explosion could have been a new industry. It's been important to look at this industry, and there are 420 concessions for shellfish cultivation. Many enthusiastic and competent professionals have started the cultivation of windshield, camouflage and oysters, confident that the state would be a stable and long-term partner. But when it's cut 30 million. In the Ministry of Fisheries's budget, there may be a risk that very many shellfish farms along our coast will never reach the level of profitable operations they had planned – as a result of the cut-off in SND's programme. Very many private investors have invested large amounts of money and money with significant capital. Everyone in this industry works in the fringes of research and commercial operations. And there are these tools that the Government has proposed to remove. This I thought was very sad for a new industry, an industry that could have been big. We know from breeding salmon and new species that it takes between 15 and 20 years from one to bet until it becomes commercial. This section is now about to stop. We have received many letters. Sinful, frustrated and damned people have written to us. I would like to quote from one letter that most people have written about: ‘We do not ignore the fact that overall the new budget gives Norwegian industry better conditions than before. However, for start-up tax relief for companies and shareholders is ineffective. This is because start-ups do not pay dividends and most of us ‘founders’ are realistic enough to budget deficits in the first few years. ... We also expected that the understanding of the relationship between innovation and the revenue-generating industry was greater among this party group» – it is referred to the government party. – “Today much indicates that we were wrong.” That's how many of the letters are written to us about this serious new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e670	The President is asking Ranveig Frøiland to take care of his use of words. A more appropriate word should have been used prior to the quote in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e673	The Ministry of Education and Research's draft budget totals DKK 45 billion. When we know that there are billions of dollars for education and research purposes also across the budgets of other departments, it tells us what a huge sector we are facing. In addition, large amounts are used, and some say equal amounts, in the private sector. Of course, as assessed in such a perspective, the Government's proposals for changes to the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg Government for 2002 cannot be seen as very comprehensive. But they represent important signals. We have said that we will focus on better quality, increased diversity and safer learning environments in school. In the budget, we have proposed increased efforts in all three areas. Firstly, we propose to increase the number of hours in Norwegian by one hour in grade 2, 3 and 4 and we propose to maintain the central exam in primary school after it was abolished by the previous government. In addition, we continue to invest in ICT in education. Secondly, we propose to strengthen the private universities with approx. Eighteen million. kr, so that the appropriations are in accordance with the cost standard negotiated by the Stoltenberg Government. And thirdly, we allocate more money to combat bullying and problem behaviour in school as a contribution to ensuring students a safe learning environment, and we continue the plan of offensive upgrading of school buildings. At the same time, the commitment to quality reform in higher education is maintained, and we continue to pursue the stepping-up plan for research. There is a certain reduction in the sectoral investment in research compared to the proposals of the Labour Party Government, but at the same time the Research Fund is increased by a further DKK 2 billion, and we are expanding the scheme of tax deductions for private research. These changes need to be seen in the context of the proposed business tax reliefs which make it easier for businesses themselves to prioritise new technologies, knowledge and research. This is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve the objective of a R & D effort at least at OECD level by 2005. In basic training, the issue is different. We're already at the top of the OECD in resource use, but only intersect average in knowledge. In fact, we do not know enough about the benefits that students get from Norwegian school, for example. Because we're too bad to measure and evaluate quality, but what we know doesn't indicate that we're on top. There is no need to turn back to Norwegian school. A lot already works well, and in some places it works very well. We impress, for example. many other countries with our perspective on lifelong learning and a very high proportion of high education in Norway. But because we also have poor results, and because other countries today also spend considerable resources improving their education system, a new course is needed. We have to bet more on the contents of school, and we have to be more interested in what the students have of school. And that's not just a question of allocation. We also need to change attitudes, renew the education system and become better at learning from the best. If we are to get a better school, it is now also time to look at the entire basic education in the context and make sure it is of high quality and can be carried out without blindways, bypasses and overlaps. More than 95 pst. by students from primary to secondary education. The previous government reduced a sample to assess this, and it is a work we will continue, but with greater emphasis on assessing and developing quality. Reform 94 and Reform 97 were largely structural reforms that came from above – now it is time to fill basic education with better content. Finally, let me say a few words about the most controversial budgetary changes that the Government has made, namely the study funding and the lending system for books. I have no problem understanding that the student organisations would like to have a higher scholarship share already now, but still allow me to stress that we have met three of the four objectives we have set for the funding of the study during this four-year period: We have reversed the workers' party government's proposal for a full conversion scheme.We do not introduce our own proposal for conversion, which is thus a lighter conversion scheme, until the quality reform in higher education has been implemented. We increase the cost standard to 80 000 kroner. In addition, as promised, we will increase the grant to 40 pst. during the period. The lending scheme for books will not be removed, but it will not be further expanded. We do not think that this is a good arrangement, for example: Because books are quickly out of date — there is actually a chronic problem in Norwegian school — and because borrowed books cannot be used actively. And, in particular, they should be able to be used actively in higher education, which is a preparatory school as well. I understand, of course, that the students would like to have replaced this scheme with another one immediately, but it has not been possible. The Department is now working on alternative solutions that will benefit students and that we will get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e717	The review melody for the Right in the election campaign was lower taxes and better school, and although more money doesn't necessarily make everything, it's a good help. In the Bondevik II government budget, the Right has had an impact on large tax credits in the billion-dollar class, but it has been cut by DKK 1⁄2 billion in the research and education budget, which the Workers' Party has planned should go to a higher grant rate, cheaper educational resources in secondary schools and nutrient research grants. And it's not just to cultivate the evil that I express that I'm disappointed, but I don't understand that the Minister of Education can actually be satisfied with the framework she's been given. The Labour Party continues to have free teaching materials for everyone in secondary school as a goal. And in a response from the Ministry of Finance to the Workers' Party regarding the loan scheme and the costs for the students, it is argued that students' expenses are not so high in practice because they both buy used books and sell their own. Is it, then, creative book sales that will form the basis for the Government's assessments of the cost to students of higher education? Question 2 relates to a more specific but topical issue which has something to do with costs in secondary school: In today's World Times, a situation is described where non-payment for the copying of educational material in secondary school will have consequences for the student's character in order and behaviour. In my opinion, it seems very unreasonable. What is the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e728	Let me first thank the representative Vidar Bjørnstad for up to several questions. I just want to say first that what I'm most concerned about when we're going to make a government budget is that we're creating an overall budget that facilitates value creation. I know that the prerequisite for well-being, the prerequisite for using public funds for research and education, is that we strengthen the value creation in Norway. Today, we have a problem in Norway because the public sector is growing violently, while we are at risk of suffocating in the private and competitive sectors. If we do that, there will be nothing left to spend more on education and research on public budgets. The education and research budget is a very comprehensive budget. There's a lot of bets in there. We have also proposed changes that mean increased bets. Only the bet on increased hours in grade 2, 3 and 4 means $4 billion a year. When we change the study funding and the lending system for books, it is not primarily to save money. We have a different model of study funding than the Workers' Party, and I know, and I'm sure that the representative Bjørnstad also knows that the students prefer that model. That they would have liked it right away is another matter, but they actually prefer our study funding model. In terms of research, our overall research approach, which also implies greater tax deductions for private R & D, must also be seen in the context of the tax regime. Double taxation of dividends helps to lock up capital in companies instead of releasing it into technology, knowledge and research in new businesses and new projects, so it is a very good measure to stimulate private sector research as well. With regard to the books, we haven't broken any promise there either. We've said that we're not a member of the lending scheme. Instead, we want a grant arrangement. But if I can be so free from Stortinget's pulpit, then I would say that it is possible that time runs from both grant arrangements and loan arrangements. I am standing here with a brochure from the Learning Center, which shows that there is now free online learning material. It is teaching materials that are constantly being updated, that students can use with other teaching materials or not, and that come both to bookkeeping and to benevolent. Here, developments are quite tiring, and I will follow them, but proposals will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e741	Governments stated that the education and research framework totals 45 billion kroner. This is an awful lot of money! This framework is aimed at improving quality, strengthening private higher education and diversity. Many types of rash occur, including: studies abroad. The students who travel abroad want some other or greater challenges than those they get at the institutions in Norway. The choice of direction of study can also be seen on many occasions as a protest against the governance and dimensioning instruments exercised by a majority on the Stortinget. When examining the suspension of the Mjøs Committee, it was agreed by the Right, Christian People's Party, the Party of Advances, the Centre Party and the Left that the current system of fees grants for foreign students should be continued with the same increase in the cost standard as for students in Norway. The former Stoltenberg government did not want to bow to a majority on the Storting in this matter, which is so important to these students – perhaps also to the nation as a whole. I regret this on behalf of the Progress Party. It is then with disbelief that the sitting government does not seem to have done anything to correct this somewhat disruptive attitude of the Workers' Party in government. I ask the Council of State to clarify whether it is a deliberate choice of the Government, or whether it is due to a poor time when presenting Supplement No. 4 that foreign students do not receive a cost standard that takes into account the costs in the country of study, whether or not this relationship will be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e752	I fully agree with the replicator that studying abroad is very positive. We need more of that — several foreign students in Norway and Norwegian students abroad. With regard to study funding, the representative also points to something that is quite right, namely that it is under cover of the great debate we have had on cost standards, scholarship shares and study funding, in the Stoltenberg Government's proposal for a State budget there are a number of proposals that resolve or reduce some other arrangements. This applies not only to foreign students but also to spouse allowance, upper age limit for travel assistance, arts scholarships, etc. And as the representative was involved, a common cost standard is introduced in Norway and the rest of the world, while currency adjustments are made to fees and supplementary grants. Odontology has also been included in the fee/subsidy section. A lot of this represents simplifications. I think the previous government is right that it does. We haven't had time to go into all of these details when we presented our supplementary proposition. These individual questions in relation to study funding, I have to go into the context of further developing the general study funding for future budgets. But this is one of many individual questions that hide behind the changes in study funding that the Stoltenberg government has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e762	I would like to start with a quote from the Sem Declaration, which says that the Cooperative Government will ‘remove the loan scheme for textbooks in secondary schools and instead expand the scholarship system for students’. SV is pleased that the Government has chosen to move to SV’s school box grant model for the coverage of school material in secondary school. The SV model is fairer and a practical scheme, a model that also includes expenditure for professional students. SV proposed 400 million in its alternative budget. to achieve the objective of equal rights to education and free secondary education. The Labour Party's draft budget contained 100 million. kr for school box crates. This is a model that SV does not want, but as we see it is better than no model. The co-operation management has removed the lending scheme from the budget without adding funds to a grant scheme, and also without promising to receive funds. This is a paradox, unless the Government has left the principle of equal rights to education. This leads to increased costs for students, no matter how we look at it. The students are the losers, and they are the winners of this year’s budget! In today's VG there was an article about a girl. The parents had not paid her paper money, and the school threatened to reduce her order character. Increased payment will lead to increased disparities between poor and rich and lead us away from the principle of equal rights to education in Norway. The government's proposal is an even greater paradox when the Sem Declaration and the Government repeatedly express the importance of eradicating poverty. My question to the Council of State is: When do you want funds for school boxing? And the question I want to follow it up with is: Can we see a bet on the school box grant in the revised national budget for spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e777	First to the question mentioned in the line here, which was also mentioned by the representative Bjørnstad, but which I did not have the right to answer since I received so many questions. As for the essay in the Evening Post Last night and in the VG today on paper money, the order and order rules, let me just say that this is determined locally, and that it is a question that is currently handled by the education director in Oslo. So to the issue of the grant scheme: first, I just want to say that the cooperative government has not removed the loan scheme in the sense that we have taken back the 200 million. kr previously granted to the lending scheme. The funds exist, they are out there and, of course, can still be used for lending. But what we've chosen to do is not to build it further out. So the background for this is not primarily to save money, but that there is no good arrangement. I have basically understood the students and the student organisations so that they ideally also want a grant scheme or something other than a loan scheme, probably with the same reason that we have, namely that a loan scheme does not work so well in relation to up-to-date learning material. We currently have the entire student support system for students in higher education in mind, and I find it most appropriate that we should evaluate it in a context and in a whole way when we also need to assess a scholarship scheme for books. But as I said before, I don't want to tie up my mind completely. There is so much exciting happening in this area that I also want to have with me the development I see in digital learning material, which is actually being put online for free for some courses in higher education. We also have to include that in the picture when we're going to consider what we're going to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e786	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e789	My focus is on the majority that does not exist. The government has offered the Tenth Advance Party. ==References== 10 pst. of the package of numerical economic desires of the Party of Advancement has found the light of grace in the government parties. The government's tenth is a staggering rejection of a lot of 363,000 voters who have just opened the way for this government. It is perceived as fading when the offered frame of just under 600 million. kr is also less than one million of the expenditure on the budget! Furthermore, when proposals for system changes are not met from the government parties, the total dividend is less than meagre. It may hardly come as a surprise to the government parties that the Progress Party both wanted and expected a good exchange from the budgetary procedure itself. Does this government really believe that treatment, negotiation and offers are the best thing to do in serving its political support contacts? Then it has a problem. It actually seems quite provocative to be treated as tiny sparrows on the political birdboard when the government most graciously spends its political crumbs. It also becomes provocative when the government operates with the magic of numbers. Let me give you an example: we have to avoid an increase in interest rates in Christmas, it's said when, among other things, the Advancement Party. requires a tax reduction of DKK 1 billion for the low income groups. Last week we dealt with the Innst. S. No 22 on the cost of all the additional asylum seekers in the current year, compared with 8 000 asylum seekers at an annual cost of 100 000 per year. person. Here the money follows the asylum seekers, and here the budget is increased to meet the need. Fair enough if there could be more than happy asylum-seekers! Is it so that when the purpose of money use is only noble and good, the economy is also spared any conceivable inflationary or heated effect? Let me give you another example: The budget will deal with additional appropriations for 2001. In that case too, the map, i.e. the budget, is adapted to the terrain, i.e. the use of money. Then, too, the framework laid down at the beginning of the year, which would then be both responsible and non-inflationary, will be exceeded at the end of the year if there is a political majority for it, in other words, whether the political will is present. Indeed, then, it is also possible at the end of the year to adopt additional appropriations which can be made transferable, i.e. which may also be used the following year. Then you actively go into the financial framework for the following year, even after the framework for the next year has been laid down. So the conclusion is that the government's parties are using number magic. They reject the wishes of the Progress Party with reference to overheating and inflation. But when the government itself believes the purpose is important, they swing the magic wand and raise money that it obviously does not hold financially irresponsible. Better can hardly do Harry Potter himself! Outside the hall and outside among the voters, however, such sorcery is little to believers! Government Party system change refusal is also incomprehensible. For example, why does the Government not change the accounting regulations, so that the municipalities that will use the access to borrow funds for upgrading school buildings also do not have to set aside payments that they will not pay before five years in their annual accounts? Without this change, the deferral shall not have an economic effect. Another example: Why will the Government not earmark the 100 million for one additional Norwegian hour for two to four. class steps from the autumn of 2002? The government must then realize that with the tight economy many municipalities experience, many students will not see the turn of this class. That's how I could keep going, the examples are unfortunately many. The apparent lack of ability and willingness to cooperate with the relying party suggests a strong and urgent need for continuing training. I actually thought that the first rounds of this government had given the three government parties the learning effect. Either you haven't learned, or the storage of learning has failed. What remains is a shameful tenth to the Progress Party, and at the same time a political kick to the party on which the Government bases its existence. That's living dangerously, for numerical magic does not give any political immunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e822	The Stoltenberg government's budget line was a follow-up to reforms and measures that the government had either seen or would implement in line with the Labour Party's promise before the elections. The new oil money policy provides a slightly larger scope for action. There was room for a comprehensive tax bill of approx. €3.5 billion, the minimum deduction was raised, the deduction of the trade union quota double, the point of entry for the top tax raised and the electricity charge lowered. At the same time, there was a commitment on the part of children, education, health and interventions for the most disadvantaged, among others. more to kindergartens to build up 10,000 new places and reduce parental pay, a scheme for upgrading school facilities, an increase to the health care system of DKK3.5 billion, a follow-up to the psychiatry plan and an extension of the elderly reform. For those who labor the most financially, access to cheaper kindergartens, free clay schooling and loan arrangements for textbooks are important. Work and access at the dwelling is crucial. As a result, there is an increase in action, housing and housing support, and the Husbank Loan Framework was proposed to be extended by NOK 2 billion. As the Bondevik II government increased the rate of revenue and reduced the estimate of expenditure, it gave us room in the budget negotiations to strengthen measures for the most disadvantaged and reduce taxes on the low-paid, without breaking the economic policy rule. A means of carrying a shot is a competitive and value-creating business. In order to strengthen business life, the budget proposal of the Stoltenberg Government provides for a system of tax reduction for research expenditure, lower depreciation rates, a more flexible SND scheme and a strengthening of trade. The Norwegian people should be glad that the Bondevik II government has followed up many of these areas. But then the government has made dramatic changes towards an unsocial and district enemy budget. Treasurettes that are further increased by NOK 3.4 billion will benefit most of the wealthiest. The 10 pst. The richest in the country takes out 90 pst. of the dividend. They are the ones who take advantage of the elimination of tax on dividends. It's wrong that this is a tax haven to prevent the lock-in of capital, and that this is an easy one that benefits business. Share dividends reinvested in new business are not taxed on dividends. There's nothing bad in taxation itself, we're going to want to get away from people, but it's the consequences, cut that have to be done to finance this, which is going to be bad, even for business. The Bondevik II government’s budget proposal means DKK 1.7 billion less for development projects in Norwegian business. This will affect small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular newly established and unborn enterprises, which are strongly committed to innovation and innovation. This comes at a time when we need innovation and innovation, and where we are struggling to get the necessary establishment in District Norway. Demand for risk capital is high and the private capital market is low. That's why we need the state venture capital. Tax incentives do not help much for start-ups and small businesses in an early development phase. For them, there are more questions about getting a surplus that gives tax. In addition, it turns out that SND has done a good and necessary job for the development of skills and innovation. It concluded a big crowd – including the Christian People's Party and the Left – as late as we did in spring. In addition, regional business reactions have not been delayed, nor have they been related to the cut-off of the forestry value added programme and 300 million. kr for next year's agricultural settlement. The latter gives an annual impact on the double, and it is also an undermining of the negotiating institute for agriculture. With an increasing centralisation in society, both city and country will be lit up with a strong district effort. Unfortunately, it now seems that there are multiples for the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e835	The political debate is on the rise. People's confidence in politicians and the political system is weakened. This is expressed in different ways: a dramatic failure in the membership of political parties and organisations, and people choosing to stay away from the elections. In local elections, we've been in a participation of less than 60 pst. There are several reasons for this development. Evolution, however, is so alarming that we have a duty to take it seriously. One aspect is obvious: lack of consistency between what we say when we deal with a message and what we do when we show our priorities in the budget. In recent years, we have dealt with several major educational messages. In the middle of all the good formulations, which are laid down in the form of principles and promises, we have had a campaign where education and school became the main theme, and where the great words and promises did not diminish. So let me take a short look back to remind you of some things: Two years ago, we dealt with a communication on equivalent training provision. The notification showed differences between municipalities and between schools. Although the majority did not consider that there was any reason to intervene, the communication was clear that developments had to be followed closely. After that, we have been shown that there is a large amount of self-payment in primary school. Developments are so dramatic that if parents do not pay in time, schools give pupils a reduced behavioral character, according to yesterday’s evening headline in the Evening Post. We have adopted a research report with clear objectives, which we have not moved towards two years after it was adopted. There were trends to that in the draft budget of the Stoltenberg government, but after the new proposal we are back to the status quo in relation to the target. We have adopted a reform of competences in which lifelong learning is regulated and where statutory rights for adults both for primary and secondary education have been implemented. The majority stressed that the State would complete the financing of the new rights. In the budget that we are to adopt, there are no five ears that can be returned to these decisions. Four months ago, we adopted a comprehensive reform of higher education. It is both a content/quality reform and a structural reform. We were served calculators that showed that this would cost hundreds of millions of dollars just for the state colleges. The committee members nodded and said that this should be included in the budget for 2002. In addition, a new study funding scheme with a higher cost standard and scholarship share was promised. The cost standard is being increased, but it's going to be like an increased loan for the students. Instead of increasing investment in higher education institutions, we are reducing the framework because the annual rates are getting slightly lower, as if the cost varies proportionally with the number of students! Anyone who's been to an educational institution knows that marginal costs are zero in many cases, and at best they move in steps. Reduced appropriations under the cover of a drop in the number of students are not a commitment to higher education, as all the parties promised five months ago. In our draft budget we have followed up what we have said in relation to these reports. We suggest that we legislate the free principle in primary school: it costs something over 200 million. kr. We're taking a boost to the quality of primary school by proposing a minimum ten-metal to ensure quality, and not least reducing the differences. We suggest free textbooks in high school, so we don't allow students to be reduced in behavior because their parents don't have the money when the schools demand it. We propose more to higher education, as we promised in June. And that was a promise that we made together with the rest of the parties here at Stortinget. We are proposing increased research efforts because that is what we are going to live on in the years to come, and that is what we promised when we dealt with the big message. But that means that we don't have money for tax credits for those who have the most initially. In addition, we must re-prioritize and deprioritize certain areas. But that's what we promised in the election campaign, and that's why we're following it up. I am quite convinced that people think this is fair, and that is why it is also the best way to counter increased political disdain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e855	The last time I was the Council of State, there was a shift in international policy. From being an area that was uninteresting to most, development policy moved from a peripheral zone to the centre of what was involved in international policy, and was on the top of the agenda at G8 meetings. American presidents and French likes were concerned with debt laundering and with a breakthrough in poverty reduction. Now, one and a half years later, it's happened even more. Last weekend I was in Ottawa at a meeting with the governing bodies of the IMF and the World Bank. There were two issues on the agenda: firstly, the consequences of 11 September for the international economy, not least for the many developing countries that are very hard hit by the decline that has occurred, and secondly, how we can jointly achieve the Millennium Goals, as it is called, the goals of halving the number of people living in extreme poverty by 2015. There are eight different objectives, including: in the fields of basic education, child mortality, maternal mortality, etc. Yes, here it's clear that everyone has to do theirs, whether it's the developing world or us. What's joyous is that there's greater consensus than ever, and greater consensus than in a long time. So here was Kofi Annan, James Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, and Horst Köhler, president of the International Monetary Fund, IMF. Everyone has made it possible to reach the poverty reduction targets into a common cause and into a common hard work. There is greater consensus, but there are also major challenges. And there are three things that have happened in the last few years that have contributed to this: Firstly, it began in 1999/2000, when we had a breakthrough for the indebtedness of the international community. And although there is a long way to go — and there is a very long way to go for those countries that have not yet managed to solve their debt problems — we still have to say that there has been a significant shift. The Norwegian debt plan was the first, and we are prepared with the budget currently under discussion in Stortinget to make new extensions to the debt plan, as the previous government put it, and as this government adds. Secondly, in the field of trade, we have been given a new framework for negotiations through the Doha Summit now, where a far greater emphasis has been placed on developing countries' ability to achieve fairer trading conditions and greater market access. The frames are in place, but that doesn't mean we're done with the job. Here, too, there is a great deal to be done before you have achieved your goal, and the framework must be followed up in concrete negotiations. The third is the Millennium Goals, i.e. the objectives of halving the number of people in extreme poverty, a commitment for the developing countries themselves and a commitment for us. There is no doubt that debt and trade will be very important in order to achieve these objectives. International framework conditions are crucial to the ability of developing countries to do so. Therefore, such framework conditions are also focused on the Government's agenda. But we can't do it without help. The World Bank has calculated that international assistance needs to be doubled internationally in order to achieve this objective. So it's not trade not AIDS, but trade and AIDS – not either – or, but a boat – and. In the Sem Declaration, the Government has committed itself to reaching 1 pst. of GNI by 2005. It's our contribution to achieving these goals. And in the draft budget, we have come a few steps closer to the goal. We have continued the efforts of the previous government, and we are now up in a proposal of 0.92 p.m. of GNI. At the same time, we need more assistance, more poverty reduction for each krona. This means that we need to concentrate our efforts, and that means that in this budget of the previous government, as we follow up, too, it has enabled a stronger focus and a stronger focus on the poorest countries. A joint effort of effort is imperative. And here there are actually quite promising developments going on. Several countries are now increasing their assistance, and several countries are actively participating in putting international development policies on the agenda. Although new messages that have ticked in tonight suggest the opposite in Denmark, the trend among like-minded countries is nevertheless very positive. And it is not least important now that very many developing countries are hard hit by the international recession, for some people 30 pst. loss of income only due to changes in commodity prices and loss of tourist income. If we are able to achieve the objectives of doing more to combat poverty, we are able to carry out that effort, we will also have greater opportunity to win the fight against terrorism, and at least to reduce the recruitment basis for terrorism. This is very important. Kofi Annan and other international figures have underlined that, although there is no automatic link, there is little doubt that poverty reduction — including, including and experiencing serious action in the international community — is preventing terrorism. That is why this is linked, and therefore this is also the focus of the Government's poverty policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e884	First, I would like to state that it is gratifying that the Bondevik II government is following up the Workers' Party's efforts for assistance. It also means an increase this year. It means that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian development policy, and it creates predictability for those who need it most in the world. In the Nordic region, we have long traditions for a common profile and common position in aid policy. The new Prime Minister in Denmark, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, today presented his new Left/Conservative Government. In the new government, the post of Minister for Development has been removed. In addition, they have announced in the Government Declaration that they will reduce development aid and environmental assistance appropriations for developing countries by DKK 1.5 billion compared to the proposals of the Social Democratic Government. The chairman of the Danish Christian People's Party, Jann Sjursen, has today expressed great dissatisfaction in the media that the government is shutting down the Ministry of Development. What are the consequences of the Danish Government's change of government on the Nordic profile of international aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e893	I want to credit the representative's line to say that there is actually a greater consensus about development policy now than ever, also with the new government that includes the Right and that supports the objectives of 1 pst. by 2005 at the latest. It's very joyful. The interesting thing is that in the Nordic context now – if I just want to take a completely objective presentation of the facts of the case – it is that it is only in Norway that it is a purely development minister. Denmark has, as Gunhild Øyangen said, signaled to remove the post today. Finland has a combination with the environment, and Sweden has a combination with immigration. The interesting thing is that this is a development that has gone on over time, while evolution has been on the continent, where one has actually upgraded the development post and the development effort. Of course, one should be careful to go in and comment on the internal affairs of other countries and the priorities of other governments, but there is no doubt that my party trap, Jann Sjursen, made a clear premise that if it would be relevant for the Christian People's Party to go into government, it was very important that there was no cut in aid, and that an offensive effort was kept in this area. This means that the Christian People's Party is recognizable, whether you are in Norway or Denmark, and you can also see the consequence of it now: The Christian People's Party is not part of the government that is in Denmark. We hope that, despite these changes on the Nordic side, we will be able to maintain a high profile and the traditional Nordic driving role both in terms of scale and not least in terms of device compared to focusing on poverty orientation and combating poverty. I hope this does not mean that Denmark does not join the team. I want to do what I can from my point of view to include Denmark in the Nordic Development Cooperation that we have. Denmark will also be represented, but with a different type of representation from the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e905	The Progress Party believes that tied mixed credits are a form of unhelp that benefits both the Norwegian industry and the recipient countries, but we see that the Council of State is now in favour of this scheme being phased out. We are as good as the only countries that provide assistance that will make this change from tied to unbound. As we see it, business could fall out completely, and this would be unfortunate and could not be the point? We also record that we are now going in to introduce unbundled credits from the turn of the year without operating guarantee schemes being in place. This is little serious if you want Norwegian business to be actively involved in development assistance. I also see that the National Association of Technology Companies cannot recommend industry to engage in this area as the instruments have evolved in the field of aid policy in recent years – until the framework conditions are too poor and unstable. The shifting of efforts towards business from export aid to direct investment in local production is not in line with industry’s own interests. Does the Council of State believe that it benefits Norway and Norwegian industry that other countries' business operators have special advantages from their authorities, while Norway is the first country in Western Europe to liquidate tied credits, when we ignore England, which has a number of other special advantages with its former colonies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e914	It is not correct, as the representative says, that this is a strange measure. It is the OECD Development Committee (DAC) which has jointly adopted a decision on the winding-up of so-called tied aid, tied credits and other assistance for MUL countries, i.e. for the poorest developing countries. Nor is it correct that Norway is first out. Other like-minded countries have been out ahead of us, and among them is the United Kingdom, which terminated its tied aid earlier this year. Nor is it the case that this government is the first to go out with this. This was in the Labour Party Government budget as a follow-up to the OECD Development Committee (DAC) decision, and this is a decision that we recommend continues. And then it's not that business will fall out completely. On the contrary, Norwegian business can now compete for a much larger aid market than has been the case before. Thus, in line with the winding-up that will now take place of tied credits in the OECD, the aid market will be significantly larger. And in the budget we have said that we will assist Norwegian companies to win tendering in that context. We have also set up a partnership with the NHO and other business organisations to ensure that we provide the strategy for industrial development in the south. You don't see Norwegian companies sign up. On the contrary, we have had a reasonable, good and close dialogue. We will continue to do this to ensure participation and create jobs in the south in relation to the follow-up to the strategy. With regard to the guarantees, we're working hard to get a solution to this, and we're going to get back to Stortinget. Finally, it is always a paradox for a person who has heard about free competition every year from the representatives of the Progress Party, to exempt some areas from free competition – that is, to accept a higher cost. That's about. 30 pst. more expensive with such tied credits, so that there is inefficient use of means of assistance. So the second thing is that you don't want competition here. I am in favour of competition, and I believe that Norwegian companies can win many new contracts in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e927	In its alternative budget, SV proposed $5 billion to a Solidarity Fund. Let's use some of the resources that we have to contribute to a better value. I would like to point out that, among other parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left were involved in the treatment of the 2001 State Budget to ask the government to allocate a development fund. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 3 for 2000-2001 expresses a multiple of: ‘This majority looks forward to the Government returning to Stortinget as soon as possible with a detailed assessment of both the principal and practical aspects of such a fund arrangement. This majority expects the investigation to highlight the development objectives of any such fund, how management can be organised and what guidelines can be used for allocating funds to the development fund.’;» In SV we say of course that this has not been followed up either by the Stoltenberg government or the Bondevik government. I would like to ask the Council of State when it can come to Stortinget with a broad assessment of such a development fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e941	SV is and has always been a good ally for the Christian People's Party in the work for more funds for those who are weakest in the world society, and for international solidarity. We still want that to be the case – from both sides. Christian People's Party is for a development fund. We have worked for a fund and for the investigation of a fund. And so it was assessed by the previous government, the Labour Party government, and in the budget proposition that was presented in the autumn, it was concluded that you did not agree to this, and you put up a little bit of other solutions in relation to where the oil fund was going to invest geographically. This was the conclusion reached by the Workers' Party as a follow-up to the comment to which the SV representative referred quite correctly, and that among other things. I was instrumental in getting in place. We haven't changed our perception. We're still for a development fund. We've also tried to get through this. But in a whole where three parties are going to negotiate their positions, we have not been able to get through to this. This is one of the areas where SV and the central parties stand for very reasonable positions, but where we do not have a majority in this room. So I can't promise that I will come back with a proposal from this government about a development fund. However, I can promise that we will use the time and work for the realization of such a proposal in the long term, but as part of this government's platform, the development fund is not in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e955	Increasing globalisation opens up new opportunities, opportunities that we should know to take advantage of. At the same time, increasing competition makes ideas realised, companies invest and resource people move where the framework conditions are best. We have to claim in this competition, a competition that knows no borders. Globalisation also poses challenges, as environmental problems and pollution do not know country boundaries either. Norwegian industry cannot be subject to stricter environmental requirements than other countries. Industry is moving, but environmental problems are going to be the same. We want businesses and resource people to stay in Norway, yes, we are also totally dependent on it. It's values that create business, that lay the foundation for the welfare state, and that are a prerequisite for achieving the goals we've set ourselves. Enterprises no longer depend on the country of origin, but the country of origin depends on the enterprises. Therefore, the fight between nations and regions for investment, jobs and tax revenue is intensified. One of the reasons why we lower taxes and taxes is that other countries do it or are going to do it. The fact that we also want less to go through the public, that the individual and the enterprise should decide more themselves and take more responsibility for themselves and theirs is an extra argument. I am proud of the Cooperative Government, which has led Norway to a new course. Last year we got a budget settlement that increased the taxes by almost NOK 12 billion. This year we get a budget that lowers taxes and taxes at about the same time. It is good to have received a government that keeps the promises of the Labour Party Government from last year to eliminate the double taxation of dividends when it is not itself able to do so. It is not unsocial to eliminate the double taxation of dividends on shares, rather on the contrary. We need people with capital that can be put into new jobs. The best social policy is known to create jobs. Norway needs more capitalists, not fewer. Norway needs more Norwegian private ownership, not less. In addition, it is also unwise to tax capital income earned in the enterprises more heavily than other capital income, such as: from deposits with banks. We also want a level of interest that is more in line with our trading partners. Then we must pursue a tight fiscal policy. The party of progress doesn't think that's necessary. They'll spend $20 billion more of the oil fund next year. Warnings from economists in financial environments and the governor that a more expansive fiscal policy will provide an overheating with rising wage growth, inflation and rising interest rates do not bite them. I think it is a little sad that the Progress Party represents an economic policy that will lead to higher interest rates to the detriment of individuals, businesses and municipalities. Siv Jensen said in the debate earlier today that the policy of the Progress Party over time would lead to lower interest rates. Firstly, it will be a gigantic experiment that no one in the economic environment believes in. And secondly, it won't help the young people who are going to be established in the housing market today, or the company that is currently having problems dealing with its debt. The only ones who may have enjoyed high interest rates are pensioners with money on book and paid-down houses. Is it conscious and wanting politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e972	As the Labour Party's fiscal spokespersons stressed at this morning's meeting, the Workers' Party will have a say in most of its budget proposals – after all. This applies happily enough to the most important areas of well-being, including: in the nursery sector. More surprisingly, Bondevik II also joins the Stoltenberg government's proposals for a financial framework for the defence budget. I then disregard the means of civil protection appropriations that are justified by anti-terrorism measures after 11 September, which we naturally also agree with. When the Stoltenberg government presented its long-term defence plan in spring 2001, the recommendation was a double conversion: a significant reduction in the defence volume accompanied by modernisation and renewal of the remaining structure in line with current and future security policy challenges. The majority of the overall interventions in the conversion of defence were supported by the majority through the treatment on 13 June 2001. The size also supported the overall objectives of the Labour Party Government in terms of operating savings, including an annual reduction of 5000 persons. There was also agreement in the debate that the defence has been in a deep and structural crisis for a number of years. But the bulk of the population wanted to maintain a larger structure than proposed, which we warned against – simply because we thought that then the defence would remain underfunded, which means that next time the transitions would be even more dramatic. Right-wing new Minister of Defence went very high right after she joined, and promised NOK 3 billion in addition to the submitted working party budget, not to mention the amounts their spokespersons talked about in June. I'll pass them in silence here – those who want to, can look up and see. So when the supplementary proposition from Bondevik II came, it turned out that the Right, by the same councillor Krohn Devold, joined our budget proposal in its entirety and announced that she would come back with her own proposition that takes on board the necessary changes in the defence structure and proposals for its allocation, as well as measures against terrorism. And you could ask yourself, does that mean an approach to what the Workers' Party originally came up with? Thus, within a few weeks, the Government, by the Minister of Defense, has been able to create full confusion both about the next year's defence budget, about budgetary procedures in general, and about the pace and extent of the reorganisation of the defence. Thousands of employees are now sitting and wondering what's going to happen, and what kind of financial framework they're going to have. In the conversion to which the defence is intended, there may be one thing that is more important than anything else, and that is that there is consistency between the structure adopted, the tasks assigned and the economic framework expected. Only then will the Defense have the power to carry out the most necessary conversion in a good way. That task and that responsibility rests on several lots in this Chamber. In order to implement the necessary changes, it is certain that we should have the widest possible majority, a broadest possible settlement, between the political parties on the Grand Duchy. This has been done in Denmark, and I believe it will be useful in Norway as well. The wider such a settlement is, the better it is. Lack of predictability is a major cause of the difficulties the defence has experienced in recent years. We now need a robust and modern defence and a security and defence policy that creates security in everyday life for most people. Future defence must also take on board the fact that the new threat images mean increased cooperation between military and civil protection. A large but immature defence will not help Norway, either nationally or internationally, nor will it be able to cooperate with our allies in an appropriate way. We should take that inward when the supplementary proposition comes, while also getting the Vulnerability Committee's treatment setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e998	The best way to ensure a comprehensive and profitable business is to develop the road network together with tax reductions. This is what the NHO and the other business organisations want. In a long country where housing is spread, such as Norway, road construction is crucial for the development of business. I also thought the Right realized that. One can get a wrong impression if one reads what the Right thought before, for example. during the last year's budgetary procedure. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 13 for 2000-2001 reads on page 33 of the Right Commentary: ‘These members will refer to the Right’s alternative budget, which proposes to increase the appropriations for national road investment by 1 billion. krones. The right will, inter alia, use these means to complete start-up road installations where there is plant stoppage or little propulsion due to a lack of appropriations.’ When a reader reads the government's draft budget, which, as you know, the Right is also included, a notable fact is that neither the money that the Right would grant last year is included. Perhaps it is that the Right believes that Stoltenberg invented a miracle cure during the last year and got progress in road construction without giving more money, for a reason it must be when the Right this year will not use the same as last year. I will continue to quote from the Right comments and suggestions that were addressed last year. On page 46 of the same budget position, the Right Party and the Advance Party have a joint comment under the heading «Proposal to express buses»: «The members of the Committee from the Party of Advancement and the Right are very surprised that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left reduce the appropriations for the express buses.» I have to admit that if possible I am even more surprised that the Right when they came into the Government, I proposed to remove the whole scheme for which they were there last year. I see in the financial situation that they have partially reversed and added 25 million. kr for next year. Of course, it's better than nothing, but when you know it was granted 50 million for the last year. NOK and the right proposed to increase this to SEK 76,7 million. kr, then the word ‘There is a long way between life and learning’ comes to its right. As if this were not enough, I would like to mention what the Right with the other two business-friendly parties on the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are capable of getting to. A large proportion of one-man businesses in Norway use the same car in work and in private. These are considerably larger cars with a total weight of up to 6 tonnes. Of course, these cars want these nutritious parties to take from this part of the business, which are carpenters, carpeters, tilers and other small craftsmen. This means in practice that many of these small traders now have the choice between two bottoms: either to buy a passenger car and a small truck or to go up in car size. Both of these options lead to increased costs and pollution, and as if that were not enough, these small businesses will have to concentrate on an even more inconvenient job. How many times have we not heard in this room Right and Left discuss which of the most friendly to small businesses in this country? I'm afraid that if these parties continue to be business-friendly, it's not so many small businesses to be business-friendly towards anymore. But it does not stop here, because even those who have their daily work on the road, sellers and others who use the car in their work, should be taken by these business parties, because now those who have company cars should also be taken seriously. Many of those who use a company car are hit really hard, first because most of them are bound to lease contracts that they cannot get out of, and for them this is nothing but an extra tax. Secondly, for tax reasons, most will be forced to choose a smaller and cheaper car in the future. Now I know that the majority in this room wants that to happen, but these business-friendly parties, Right, Left and Christian People's Party, should think that this type of car is a workplace where users spend their working day. Right should be right – I am aware that many of these proposals originally came from the Workers' Party. But why does the Government believe that the Advance Party helped to get the new government Bondevik in place? Does it think it was for it to continue with the anti-fouling policy put forward by the government of Stoltenberg? That is why I am disappointed that these proposals are supported by the Bondevik government, and I wonder why one should continue to support such a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1026	September 11 goes into history as a cruel day, a day that changed our worldview. The vision of the World Trade Center in flames and ruins is stuck to the retinals of all. Terrorism in the United States also has consequences for Norway. The terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September highlighted the vulnerability of society and the need for additional efforts to increase security and preparedness. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I note that, in its additional proposal, the Co-operation Government has made a strong and wide range of efforts to reduce the vulnerability of society. The government of Stoltenberg had little opportunity to follow up on this in its budget, but I hope that a total increase will follow up the measures proposed by the Bondevik government. I noticed with interest what Marit Nybakk said in his speech, that the Workers' Party would, of course, support the Bondevik government's proposal against the fight against terrorism. After the New Year, the Vulnerability Committee will be presented to Stortinget. The follow-up of this will be very important. I would like to underline the need for a coordinated effort for the security of society. All relevant sectors need to cooperate here. The government proposes a number of measures to prevent similar events in Norway. The Ministry of Justice is working to get an overview of the overall need for civil protection resources and the police, including POTs, necessary emergency measures. This is an extensive work. The government will therefore come back with a review of the overall resource needs later, in relation to its own deposit proposal that the Ministry of Defence will present in spring 2002. But in this context, there is a proposal to strengthen the allocation of 140 million dollars to the police and to social security and preparedness. to the most urgent needs in 2002. The measures proposed are the continuation of safety measures taken at the Gardermoen main aerodrome of 3,9 million. kr. The Oslo Police District is responsible for embassy and bodyguards. The continuation of the increased watch and the other security measures in place will impose significant costs on Oslo Police District, on average an additional cost of DKK 1.5 million per year. week. This will require an additional 39 million. kr for the first half of 2002, as the Government also proposes. These are measures that will strengthen watchkeeping and increase the security of society, thereby increasing citizens’ security. The government will also take other steps to prevent terrorist attacks and to stand up better rusted if the disaster strikes Norway. A separate assessment of the resource situation in POT will be carried out, inter alia. in the light of the terrorist action in the United States. This is a major and important work that has a high priority. In this context, measures are promoted to address the most precarious needs. The emergency measures described in St. pp. No 7 for 2001-2002 on the additional expenditure for this purpose is estimated at 9 million. kr the first six months of the following year. In addition, it is proposed to strengthen POT manning, inter alia. to increase capacity in analysis and technology. A budget of 10 million is also proposed. to the necessary technological equipment. As a nation, we are totally dependent on the timely technology of the monitoring service and the availability of the necessary methods to quickly and effectively detect activities and groups that are a threat to society’s security. If Norway is to be subjected to terrorist attacks of a different nature, it is important to have a readiness to take rapid action to restore the safety and security of the population. One of the new measures proposed by the Co-operation Board is to exercise the police reserve, which has not happened for very many years. The police reserve consists of 5,400 crews, and it is proposed to train 600 of them in 2002. In addition, crew upgrading is required. In order to train and upgrade 600 crews, the total allocation requirement is 10.8 million. kr. Civil defence also needs a lot, and one of the most important things is to train the so-called civil defence response groups. It was proposed to train 3,000 people by the end of 2001. In addition, the Government proposes to train 15,000 teams next year. The practice of these is an important element, so that you can take advantage of the current threat situation. That's $15 million. kr for this measure. The Civil Protection Directorate shall also strengthen its cooperation with the local authorities in order to strengthen the ability of local authorities to deal with crises. Previous threat assessments have revealed that the gas masks are too bad. One has to replace one of seven gas masks. This is the subject of a proposal for a regulation. In addition, appropriations for other measures are proposed, including: upgrading alert systems in Norway. These are measures that will strengthen preparedness, reduce the vulnerability of society and strengthen the security of its citizens. The PCF will follow up these actions and return with the necessary additional appropriations in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1052	The main challenges facing us in economic policy are meeting the expectations and temptations of oil wealth. Meeting with people through the election campaign showed that there is great impatience after using the large oil revenues to get rid of the kindergarten queues, the hospital queues and the hospitals. There is much less understanding that we need to collect as much money through taxes and taxes as before, when the oil fund is filled up at the rate it does. In a situation where there is no shortage of money, but where the problem is the lack of available heads and hands, the challenge is to make use of growing oil revenues in a way and at a pace that can strengthen value creation, enhance well-being and contribute to a fair distribution. This is the basis of the Stoltenberg Government's budget and of the adjustments made to the Labour Party's budget proposals: more and cheaper kindergartens, a better school, better health care and better-developed care for the elderly. It is good that these priorities survived the government shift. What did not survive the government shift as well was the government budget as a tool for innovation and industrial development and a fair distribution. Through the cut-off in the instruments of the SND device, the possibilities of conversion and development are being mastered throughout the country. The company AxxessIT in Halden has created 100 jobs and an export worth NOK 2 billion through a previous development project with SND support. Now the company is facing a new development project, and the manager says to Halden Arbeiderblad: ‘The outline of SND schemes comes at the worst possible time...... Borrowing and subsidies from SND are an important factor for business at a time when the level of costs increases, interest rates are high and strong, and where market uncertainty and inertia are high.’ If oil wealth is to be used in a way that ensures and increases value creation, builds well-being and contributes to a fair distribution, it must be used to renew and develop our business. Then there is a large cut in the arrangements that SND is a serious step in the wrong direction. Equally important is to prevent the use of oil revenues in a way that pressures wages and prices in the weather at home, so that our traditional export companies no longer sell their goods because they become too expensive. Therefore, a large proportion of the extra billions the oil fund gives us to use each year must be used to reduce taxes and charges. The most sensible thing to do was to see this in the context of income statements, so that lower taxes and taxes could be combined with some pay supplements. We would then have a situation in which increased real wages for individuals could be combined with increased competitiveness for businesses. It would provide safer jobs and increased value creation. A prerequisite for such thinking is a fair distribution, and that the tax reliefs must be aligned with this, as we do in the budget of the Workers' Party. The government's priorities are different when it spends NOK 1.2 billion on removing the dividend tax. It gives both tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of tax dollars to a few people, who have essentially one thing in common: they get a tax relief they could do well in addition. In the years to come, we need to continue as the Workers' Party has done in the last two to three years, reducing taxes on those who earn little and on those with ordinary income – that is, for those who have the greatest need to be left with a greater share of their income. There is also a need to clean up and reduce the level of many of our excise duties. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is broad agreement on excise duties in the budget proposals under consideration. In fact, there is a broad consensus on all the excise duties, including a reduction in the taxes on alcohol, which I think we need to look at as the beginning of an adaptation to our neighbouring country. Such adaptation is necessary both in order to maintain the monopoly of wine as a sensible alcohol policy tool and in order to maintain some respect for the limitations of the border crossings following the trades of our Nordic neighbours. Meeting the expectations and impatience that exist in relation to rapid improvements in our welfare systems and lower taxes is a common challenge for all parties who see the danger of taking in excessive oil revenues in the Norwegian economy too quickly. The only option we have is to use the increased oil revenues in a way that most people experience as fair and correct in relation to the most important problems they face in their everyday lives. And the government's change in the pastor's budget proposal was not a good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1091	In fact, the cooperative government's proposal for the 2002 budget is quite a pleasant reading for Kommune-Norway. Some might say that it is not so difficult that it flows out of wealth, but the budget contains a real increase in the total income of the municipalities. This will be a good thing. Very many municipalities face increasing costs, growing debt and still large unsolved tasks. In my opinion, the Co-operation Government has an offensive arrangement to strengthen the local economy, and the Sem Declaration is very clear on the commitment to a continued real-life growth of the local government framework in the years to come. The core of such a strategy is at the same time that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the county municipalities and the means allocated to them to carry them out. I think it's a right line to reduce the number of earmarked grants and leave these reserved for important national priorities in a start-up phase. Furthermore, the over-management of the local government sector must be reduced by constantly new laws, regulations and those earmarked grants. This is about revitalising municipal autonomy. Taking responsibility for their own priorities should pay off to municipalities, and such policies will definitely stimulate new and better solutions to local tasks. That is why it is important when we now have proposals to extend the VAT compensation system. It will stimulate competition and rational cooperation. I belong to those who believe in positive instruments, to policies that provide incentives to improve their own situation – a policy that stimulates municipalities to try new solutions, to simplify their organisation and to focus more on the activities and services of the municipality. The core of a good district policy must be the development and establishment of value-creating and varied business with productive and profitable jobs. It provides a basis for settlement and for viable communities. A number of the fiscal policy measures proposed in the budget of the Cooperative Government will clearly provide better framework conditions for business. We do not need more jobs where they have the primary task of managing the many support schemes of district policy. Therefore, when implementing measures to ensure a more efficient use of the instrument and better control over the achievement of the objectives, the Co-operation Board is on the right track. I am also pleased that the Co-operation Government announces that in the revised national budget for 2002, it will return to the issues of increased pension expenditure in municipalities and county municipalities. This is a complex problem, and the acute situation in the case of additional pension expenditure in 2001 is very much under way by keeping municipalities more tax revenue. So what's going to be the situation for 2001 is going to come back to. But this is about several things. Firstly, increased commitments, triggered by good wage settlement and agreements, have incurred large costs for the municipalities. Here we are more about responsibility. The second is that many municipalities have received an interesting lesson in the risk of ownership of companies competing in an international market. It can be very pleasant during lunchtime, but thus involves a responsibility and risk exposure at times when the returns are not as impressive. It has not been given that the Storting will take the entire bill when the development on the stock exchange was not like any hope. In fact, much of that responsibility lies with those who own the insurance company and who have themselves chosen to expose a double risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1105	The starting point for SV's policy is the desire for a fair world in ecological balance. I think it's in place in this financial debate to remind you that a government budget is an instrument for achieving political goals, and not a goal in itself – although it may seem in the media that this is the great moment of tension. I feel convinced that tomorrow's vote will give us a budget. I am not equally convinced that it is a budget that will be a suitable instrument for achieving SV's overall policy objectives. But the most interesting thing is the question of whether this budget will be a tool for achieving the Government's own objectives, as outlined in the Sem Declaration: Is this a budget that testifies to an offensive environmental and resource policy based on the objective of sustainable development? When you have worked for a while with environmental problems, you are then used to reading reports on how things get worse. You get used to seeing curves that either go straight in the weather or straight down. Emissions of dangerous substances are increasing, the number of species is dying at record speed, and rainforest and nature are increasingly being poisoned. Deforestation continues – tropical rainforest could be a fairy tale only in our days of life. We are regularly bombarded with reports of the state of things. We are no longer shocked by reports of dioxins in breast milk. We only shake our heads when we hear that fish cannot be eaten because of environmental poisons, or that seaweed outside the south coast now contains radioactive substances from the United Kingdom. It is a fact that it is the poorest that will be affected by environmental problems first. Many hundreds of millions today who do not have access to fresh water will have far greater problems in the future. It is the poor who will not be able to protect themselves against malaria and cholera and other diseases that come into the wake of an ever warmer world. We are not the first to be hit in Norway and other rich countries. We're just causing the problems. The really ironic thing is that it's actually in our interest to do something about these problems. Biological diversity actually represents a value. Just ask someone who's got her life extended after a transplant that went well because of the small mushroom type Norwegian researchers found at Hardangervidda 25 years ago. Just ask the landowner who loses his main income because the wild salmon disappears from his watercourse. But the majority of this will seem to have no good understanding of how real and sustainable values are created. Not that there is a lack of information. We know what happens if we don't take the problems seriously. We have seen more examples in history of the consequences of mismanagement and of not taking warnings seriously. In fact, we have enough knowledge to save the environment on ten planets. The main problem is that the majority in this Chamber do not have the political will required. Today, we are discussing the position of the Financial Committee on the 2002 budget. As usual, I must say, unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that the majority in this room is willing to take nature's signals seriously. The alarm went on several decades ago, and now there are red lights and flashes all over the world. However, the majority of this room is more concerned with reducing taxes to the wealthiest and most privileged group in history. It is, in my view, quite shameful. When we in SV have proposed to increase the framework for the Ministry of Environment by approx. 200 million. kr, there is a modest figure in relation to the real need for the necessary turnaround, which SV wants, namely a transition to a sustainable society. SV has often underlined the willingness to cooperate with the Government on a better environmental policy. Our concern about what environmental policy we have when the Government has chosen the Progress Party as a supporting party has not diminished after following this debate. And once again, we'll question how the government sees that they're going to have a government budget with a credible environmental profile, when you're dependent on an approved stamp from the Progress Party. The modest increase in the Ministry of the Environment budget proposed by the Government did not create any enthusiasm in SV, and after the Government Party proposal to cut 33 million. on the same budget came on the table, the weak increase actually became a real reduction in relation to the proposal of the Stoltenberg Government. I feel tempted to quote the Danish Storm P., who gave two of his people sitting on a bench the following dialogue: ‘Tell me, what do you think of the world situation?’ The other replied, ‘Nothing — I have a rush in my eye.’ A rush in the eye gives as well-known problems with gait vision, and that's probably the problem with the prevailing majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1137	The financial framework of the year is based on the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government and the Cooperative Government. The Co-operation Board had a very short period of time to adjust to the Sem Declaration's intentions for the next four years. In a number of areas, the co-operation administration must therefore continue the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government. It will not be until next year's budget proposals that the Co-operation Government can present a comprehensive draft budget. The Sem Declaration mentions, among other things: that the policy priorities set out in this document will be made possible by structural changes, modernisation, redistribution and a more targeted use of the added value created in Norwegian society over the four-year period. On this basis, it was quite natural to bet on some areas, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. a better offer for particularly vulnerable groups in the health sector, including: in the field of mental health, and for the implementation of the cancer plan, which is also an area of great neglect. Both of these areas need to be taken seriously because of the existing needs. Furthermore, there is reason to rejoice that the economy of non-governmental organisations will be strengthened in the fight against poverty by 100 million. more than the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government – given that the fight against poverty nationally and internationally is an important area of concern for the Cooperation Government. This includes the aid escalation plan, which one wants to increase by a total of 250 million. kr in addition to the proposals of the Labour Party Government. This escalation plan must be seen in the context of the significant challenges we face in the poor part of the world. As a member of the Transport Committee, I also find reason to announce the vision contained in the Government's proposal to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, on the one hand by increasing investment frameworks and, on the other hand, by giving priority to the development of public transport. In this work, an attempt will be made to deploy increased competitive outsourcing and extended use of OPS arrangements for priority actions. However, in this area one must also look at the draft budgetary adjustment proposed by the Co-operation Board from a four-year perspective. The challenges are many – including investments in and upgrade of traffic controllers, brands and beacons for increased safety in maritime transport, but it is also necessary to be willing to give priority to key areas with high traffic loads along our herds. In this context, it is natural for me to draw attention to the development of the Eastfold package phase 1, Oslopackak 2 and the E18 continuation from Westfold via Telemark, East-Agder and West-Agder. For the Eastfold package phase 1, it is important to be able to keep the plant pace up to approx. 75 pst. of all goods by road, crossing E6 and E18 via Eastfold. This should avoid an end to installations in the 2002 budget year – this by further discussing the issue through the revised national budget, including the possibility of raising loans with an understanding of the increased framework for the 2003 budget year. There is very little intention for large road investment to produce important freight transport from Coast Norway to Europe if the emergence in the eastern region is slowing down. However, we have to acknowledge most deeply that increasing public transport is a very important element in mastering the major traffic problems facing the eastern region on a daily basis. The aim must therefore be to bring more road users onto rail, bus and local railways. We must undoubtedly be able to agree quickly that the Norwegian people want a new policy course with new priorities. The main objective must be full employment and a positive further development of the Norwegian welfare society with fair distribution and sustainable development for the benefit of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1158	Today, the Storting deals with a financial position that at least at one point has a clear working party profile. Next year, a budget of DKK 1 billion will be used to build more kindergartens and to reduce parental pay. The government of Stoltenberg proposed it. I'd like to commend the Bondevik government for having stuck to the same policy. Here is the Government on the right track. It is also positive that efforts are being made to improve hospitals, and that the care of the elderly should be improved as suggested by the government of Stoltenberg. School buildings are being rusted up and training is to be improved. The Labour Party and the Government Party are in charge of these matters. That's the positive of the financial situation. In other areas, however, the Bondevik government proposes a very unfortunate policy, a policy that creates greater differences in our society. Treasures will be given by the government of Bondevik. The treasure goes to those who already have the most. The most prosperous in our society becomes the winners. People with a large share dividend charge nearly $1.5 billion in taxes. Such a tax policy cannot be accepted by the Labour Party. We don't have a social conscience for that. The fact that the Christian People's Party has it does raise considerable awareness. The working party gives the largest handshake of those who think the least. We want to increase the rate in the minimum subtraction by 2 percent points to 24 pst. Thus, people who charge less than NOK 195 000 a year receive substantial tax credits. The richest are still to pay taxes on their dividends, meaning the Workers' Party. The Bondevik government is tearing the foundation away from district policy. Cut down on the lines of SND and regional and regional policy measures are dramatic. Public research and development will be reduced by 60 pst. Development styles will be cut to 60 pst. The permits to create jobs in the districts will be cut down by 350 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg. As if this were not enough: The Bondevik administration is cutting dramatically in the fisheries research and the programme for the development of the fishing industry will be removed. This is anti-business. Aquaculture and fisheries are future industries in our country. We have to give them growing conditions - do not stick pairs of jaws in the wheels for these nutrients. The reactions to the Bondevik government's regional and regional policy have been extremely strong, not least from people who are usually close to the government party. Several business leaders say this: we need incentives for districts and businesses, not tax havens. Giving tax credits doesn't make any more of it on innovation. Experience shows that SND has just its strength in this important phase of work. Investors stay away until the project becomes less risky. So the state has an overly important task of providing seed and helping entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. In the next round, it can contribute to increasing the value creation of our society. The economic politicians in my own country call the Bondevik Government's proposal dramatic. Actually, it will involve a liquidation of SND, as we know today. Most of the development activity of the head office will fall away. SND as an input to government tools such as the Swedish Research Council, the Swedish Export Council and the Council of Design thus become quite uninteresting, claims the industrial politicians in Sogn and Fjordane. The NHO in the county is going on as hard in its criticism of the Bondevik government's district and industrial policy. Changes take place at a very adverse time. There is a decline in the international economy. The market for many Norwegian exports is falling. The unemployment rate may increase, says the Government. Our business is looking for venture capital at a time when private lenders won't set up. When the Bondevik government builds up state support schemes and weakens risk capital, it goes in the wrong direction. The value creation will mean. Government Bondevik's district and industrial policy leads to the centralisation of capital and jobs. Such a policy will counterbalance the Labour Party. Business needs to stimulate innovation. Therefore, sufficient funding is needed for both SND and central and regional policy actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1184	A well-developed transport sector is an important prerequisite for a good rural policy. Good accessibility, both in terms of car, boat, rail and air transport, is important to reduce the distance disadvantages of districts. Better transport services are needed to create new activities and develop existing businesses in rural areas. It is necessary to reduce transport costs. The co-operation administration wants a change of rural policy, with a stronger emphasis on the development of the provision of transport and a lower level of taxes and charges, while the appropriations for public support programmes are being reduced. One of the main measures proposed by the Co-operation Board is to remove the passenger charge from 1 April 2002. This will significantly improve the framework conditions for aviation, which in turn will mean lower prices for passengers. The co-operation administration proposes to increase the national road allocations by 100 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg government. A well-developed road system not only has a significant impact on rural development, good links between municipalities and strong regions. For example, the Lister package will: have such an effect internally in West Agder when this project is realised. Priority should also be given to road sections with high traffic volumes and accident rates. Examples of such sections are E18 and E39 through the Agderfylken. It is therefore a positive signal for the Cooperative Government by increasing the appropriations for E18 in East Agder by 40 million. kr. It is also necessary to strengthen collective provision, especially in and around large cities. It is therefore gratifying that the Cooperative Government proposes to increase public transport appropriations by 65 million. kr in relation to the government of Stoltenberg. In addition to increasing the appropriations allocated to the road sector, we also need to get more back on the funds available to us. In the road sector, as in all other areas, we need to have a critical review of our organisational structure. I am therefore very pleased with the government's proposal to reorganize the administrative part of the state road system. Here, there is great efficiency gains to be derived from a new organisation. Minor resources will go to administration and similar more for road purposes. As regards the production activity of the State Road Administration, we propose that this be converted into a state limited liability company. This is important in order to get the full outsourcing of the production tasks. Here we want a clear distinction between the order and delivery roles, so that there is equal competition between the players. The Sem declaration focuses on the organisation of the State sector. We have to follow closely, that's a necessity. We live in a society of change and transformation. Then we must also be willing to change and change in the areas for which we, as politicians, are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1205	The scheduled time for the evening meeting is immediately over. The President will propose that the sitting continue until speaker No. 41 on the list of speakers has spoken. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1208	It is limited how much change you can make in a week, said Per-Kristian Foss when he presented the Bondevik government's draft budget. After seeing this budget price at least I am happy that the Bondevik II government had no more days at its disposal. For the most part, it is only the Share Couples Association that has reason to rejoice over this budget. In Hedmark, at least we have no reason to take the wave. Mr Bondevik's and Mr Right's proposals for cuts in the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, SND, will have dramatic consequences for the business community in Hedmark. The inland economy has few owners of capital who are willing to take risks by investing in the business of Hedmark. So it's the Christian People's Party and the Right that want to reduce innovation and business development in the districts. It's sad. It is equally hopeless when this government also planned to remove subsidies for bus routes fuel. This would have meant that express buses had to reduce the route offer or shut down. Many express buses now also remove discounts for pensioners and students. I might mention, as an example, that the Trysilekspress would have had to halve its route offer if the Bondevik government had adopted its draft budget. The fact that the Bondevik government also cuts money for agriculture before negotiations have started must be interpreted as a mere dictatorship for the whole industry. I am proud that the government of Stoltenberg found room for a real increase in the cultural budget. Good cultural offer is good district policy. A living cultural environment creates well-being and belonging in Building Norway, but at the same time it is important to stress that culture has a value in itself. It challenges us, it develops us, it entertains us, it gives us something to live for, and it gives us time to reflect. It is therefore important that we now facilitate good conditions for both professionals and amateurs. What's sad, but that's really not a surprise, is that the Bondevik II government sucks in the press support. The Nordics are a newspaper-reading people, and the interest of the Nordics in their local and local news is unique. With the government's plans, it's against newspaper death for no. 2 newspapers, which weakens the diversity of the Norwegian newspaper flora. Work for all remains a main objective of the Workers' Party. And then we all mean. The Labour Party believes it is important that people who have been on for many years in the labour market, many in heavy work, can lose their contractual pension and their honor. Most people have a residual ability that society needs, and that can give individual dignity and a sense of usefulness. The Government of Bondevik I changed the possibility to combine work and social security from 1G to NOK 4000. Society needs the skills and life experience of older workers, not least in policy. Therefore, we should encourage people to participate in local and social policies without being penalised financially. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government of Bondevik II to return to Stortinget with a proposal that a contractual pension can be combined with the possibility of labour income up to 1G. To sum up, with the budget of the Bondevik II government for 2002, including the cultural budget, I have to say that the Christian People's Party has now buried its district profile once and for all. And I'm not so sure that it's enough to pray to the higher powers to restore the confidence of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1225	The election gave the voters the opportunity to give tax policy signals. The possibility they made full use of. When the Co-operation Government now adds to a historically strong change in the Norwegian tax policy, this is in line with the expectations expressed by the voters. Frustration is probably part of the explanation of the strong communication to the Stortinget. When the Stoltenberg government presented the state budget for 2001 last November, this amounted to a tax increase of DKK 12 billion. The Stoltenberg Government proposed, inter alia: economic cost of all construction activities. The proposal shook a total construction industry and all contractors and builders in Norway. Special fares also increased sharply. The prestigious Norwegian carrier Braathens is now being extinguished by the competitor, among others. as a result of the strange tax burden. The Stoltenberg government introduced double taxation of business. This affects the family businesses. Taxably, it is more beneficial to put money in a bank account and to invest in property than to own shares in Norwegian business. The Labour Party has argued against double taxation for a number of years. In 2001, the attitude shifted to a populist rhetoric about tougher taxes on rich people, i.e. the equity of Norwegian enterprises. The changeability of the working party when it came to this position impressed me. The Stoltenberg government also introduced VAT on services. Some services, such as: training activities, were then exempted from VAT in the form of outlays in the election campaign itself. We remember all the foreign minister Igland at that time when he met employees in an industrial company, wearing joggedress, and announced that training activities would be exempt from VAT. Other services, such as driving licence training and safety alarms, did not, however, benefit from a VAT exemption. People saw this as clearly unreasonable. The Stoltenberg government also increased the house tax by 15 pst. The tax on electricity increased sharply. It became more expensive to live, regardless of the level of income. All of this contributed to a strongly increasing frustration in the choice mass. When the election campaign started in 2001, it boiled around tax issues. People and businesses noticed the effects of the negotiations at the Hotel Plaza. Social offices could report a flood of enquiries from people who couldn't pay their electricity bills. The electricity charge had increased by almost 100 pst. in the last two years. More than half of the electricity bill is chargeable. In the middle of the election campaign, therefore, the government tried to correct Stoltenberg. This resulted in relatively panic-card election campaigns on taxes and charges, among others. on the electricity charge. As late as 26 July, Stoltenberg promised that the fee would be reduced by 1 ear, and that with retroactive effect from 1 July. Most people bought this show, and most people actually believe today that the government reduced the electricity charge by 1 cent from 1 July. As rapporteur for St.prp. No 100 for 2000-2001, on changing the electricity charge in the 2001 state budget, I can confirm that the fee is still 11.30 øre. It has been found that it is very costly and complicated to apply a tax reduction on electricity with retroactive effect. Consumers must have paid this cost. In addition, the proposal stated that the 2001 budget was to be reduced by 130 million. kr. That's not right. The tax reduction may only be settled in accordance with the decision of the Storting. It is in the first invoice after the turn of the year. The full cost of the election campaign had thus to be taken in 2002. The conclusion of an overall financial committee is that there will be no tax reduction from 1 July this year. The matter is annexed to the Protocol and the tax reduction is also addressed in the 2002 State budget. Here, on the other hand, the Co-operation Agency proposes simply to lower the electricity charge by 2 cents from the end of the year. This compensates consumers for the lack of implementation of the unrealistic election campaign promise from Stoltenberg and at the same time reduces the electricity charge by one more ear. The Co-operation Board has initiated a fiscal policy change after only three weeks in position. Tax and tax cuts of DKK 12 billion are a very good step towards the objective of the Sem Declaration. The cut is as big as the government's 2001 tax clippers. The co-operation administration proposes, inter alia: to abolish double taxation of dividends, to remove the seat charge, to reduce housing taxes, to clean up the VAT reform, to reduce taxes on labour and to increase the deductions for research and development. And as mentioned, it is arranged in the mess around the electricity charge. In addition to tax relief, the Cooperative Government will ensure that fiscal policy becomes more long-term, provides a stable framework and is perceived as credible, predictable and fair. This in itself is an important part of the change in price.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1259	The government of Stoltenberg put forward in the fall a budget in a good social democratic spirit. The economic situation led to a tight budget, but provided room for increased investment in welfare and taxation. After a reassessment, Bondevik II found reason to adjust some items of income and expenditure. It gave us in the Workers' Party room for further bets on welfare and on tax laws for those who feel the least. The framework facilitates a fall in interest rates. The progress party seems not to be taking this seriously. They seem to have forgotten that too much pressure in the economy leads to interest rate increases. It affects unfairly those with the most loans and least income, most often young people, as well as a more difficult competitive situation for Norwegian enterprises. In this respect, I am pleased that the Government Party has not given in to the Advance Party's pressure to use more of the oil fund. After the same logic, one would expect the government party to turn to the Labour Party to get multiple numbers, but Bondevik sees it as a better alternative to ask cabinet questions. The working party has had an impact on the importance of child care – several places and lower prices – of health care, care for the elderly and the upgrading of school buildings. Mr Bondevik disagrees with important measures that increase scholarships and free school books. And when Bondevik gets more money at his disposal, he uses the brother of those who already have the most, while the Labour Party strengthens the effort further towards those who have the least. I can refer to tax relief for low-wage and retired people, increase redundancy, strengthen support schemes, increase drug use and more labour market measures. Not enough: While Bondevik has created a district enemy budget, the Labour Party once again sees itself as the district's best friend. Bondevik will almost destroy the SND's territorial permissions, and the Workers' Party will continue a high stake. The activity has been great around the country to reveal the consequences of the proposed cut. Sokndal Nutritional Association claims, among other things: «For a period of four years, the municipality of Sokndal has held a position as a municipality of conversion. Several projects are under way and some projects are under construction. With the proposals available in the framework of the districts, we are afraid a large part of the work that has been done and the money that has already been spent will be of little or no use." Instead of facilitating business development and value creation in the districts of zeros Bondevik II in the worst case out the effect of money that has already been allowed. When they also remove the anti-fracture system and reduce the path of the agricultural settlement, I understand that there will be rebellion in District Norway. Fortunately, when it comes to the express buses, the government has turned around. I know many communities where the express buses have a lot to say for busses and for well-being. Transport is important for busses, for well-being and not least for jobs and business in the whole country. Many had great expectations of extra privileges when we got a new government. They had simply overcharged us with billions in the spring when we handled the National Transport Plan. The promises were repeated in the Sem Declaration. The result was 150 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg government. The situation now is that the Labour Party will allow a little bit more than the Government of Transport. The last period was also so that the Center and Right promised monthly more than us, but they lied less. The Labour Party, in its National Transport Plan, promised a sharp increase in the trajectory for commercial purposes. We'll follow it up. Of the 200 extra million, the working party will spend 60 million. SEK for collective investment in our four largest cities, mostly in Oslo, SEK 15 million. kr for extended discount scheme for elephants and students, 10 million more for breed protection and 60 million more. To increase the permissions of individual sections of the route, which will also increase the government's permissions. In addition, in the Labour Party, we're going to allow $40 million. kr for new projects on E6 and E18 through Østfold and 5 mill. kr for the start of a new route to Kragerø. There are very many serious accidents in Eastfold. For the last 10 years, 52 people have lost their lives on E6. We have to take this seriously. Now that the control plan is ready, we propose to grant 40 million. to new projects in addition to the 230 million that are already in the budget, and we invite all parties to cooperate on this in the Committee. The situation in aviation is very uncertain. Together with SV and the Center Party, we have therefore asked for a matter to be brought back to Stortinget as soon as possible. The working party is eager to take responsibility in this difficult situation and prevent aerodromes from becoming fully or partially disconnected or the necessary remedial action being postponed due to the poor economy of the Aviation Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1281	The major issue in the autumn policy debate has been whether tax relief can be implemented while building up well-being. After a few weeks, the answer lies in the Storting through the additional contribution of the Cooperative Government to the State budget. It is possible to reduce taxes, improve the framework conditions for the competitive sector and, at the same time, increase efforts on priority welfare tasks such as: poverty reduction and education. Education was a major and important theme in the election campaign, and the Cooperative Government delivers after only three weeks in government. The level of literacy among students in the Norwegian school is a problem we have to take seriously. For this reason, the Cooperative Government proposes to increase Norwegian education for students from 2nd to 4th grade by one hour per year in its additionalproposition. week. In total, these children will receive over 120 hours of Norwegian education, compared to today. 240 million. It is proposed to strengthen Norwegian education for the very least. Growing up without being able to read and write properly is a fate no one should experience in Norway. In my home country, Finnmark, a while ago I met a well-adulted man who had lived all his life just without being able to read and write. I guess to the extent that you can talk about lost opportunities, he's a good picture of it. His personal abilities never grew, when he was cut off from further education and entrance ticket to the labour market. This is an example of why greater focus on literacy is just so important in education policy. The co-operation administration also proposes to continue today's compulsory examination scheme at the end of primary school. The Stoltenberg government proposed to cut $12 million. kr for the central examination scheme in primary school. On the right, it is considered important for targeted education that the examination scheme be continued. Examination testing is a method that students will meet in subsequent training courses. The students are presented as budget losers, but that is not correct. Students may be the group that will receive the highest percentage increase in purchasing power and standard of living until next year. The cost standard for students is increased by nearly 15 pst. for the next school year. In addition, the ceiling of NOK 5200 per person is removed. the month in which students can earn before they lose their education support and are replaced by a ceiling of DKK 100000 per month. years. The co-operation administration also rejects the introduction of a conversion scheme before completion of the implementation of the quality reform in higher education. In the Stoltenberg government's proposal, there was a risk for students who did not follow normal study progress, to lose their entire education scholarship. Overall, the new proposal of the Cooperation Government is better for all students. The Education Policy of the Cooperative Government is based on the Sem Declaration, and important keywords are, on which the Council of State has been involved, quality, diversity and the learning environment. The government's additional proposal is only a start, and in the future the Stortinget will be presented with many proposals for improving the education system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27-2.ana.ud438e1298	The President proposes that the debate should now be suspended. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker in the Stortinget meeting tomorrow will be Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
