ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-23.ana.ud2559e23	The following called alternates have taken their seats: 1st@item: inlistbox For the West-Agder counties: Rolf Terje Klungland 2. For Hordaland County: Kurt-Arne Langeland 3. For Nordland counties: Kari Brodevoll 4. For Oslo: Ann Kathrine S. Tornås and Anders C. Shaastad 4. For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-23.ana.ud2559e67	Norway is the society of opportunity. In a few areas, we see this more clearly than in the aquaculture industry. In 1961, Johan Karlsen of the Workers' Party asked the Minister of Agriculture in an interview: ‘Is the Government aware of the experiments carried out in the Sykylven with salmon and trout, which appear to have a significant impact on the strengthening of the nutrient base in our coastal areas? There are no more than 30 years since two guys at Hitra in Trøndelag tried to put salmon in a mermaid to see if they could turn salmon into domestic salmon. The adventure of the Green Vedt-cars from Hitra is an example of how entrepreneurs laid the foundations for the new aquaculture industry, which is today a viable and forward-looking industry. The development of the industry has been characterised by a high capacity for innovation based on knowledge exchange and cooperation between economic operators, business organisations, research and management. This is much of the explanation for the success of the aquaculture industry. We've come a long way, but Norway's potential is much greater. Only parts of the marine capabilities have been exploited. Reports from scientific institutions show that the fishing and aquaculture industry has a high potential for growth, not only in areas such as salmon and trout farming, but also marine fish, crustaceans, biotechnology and the exploitation of by-products. The BI project ‘A value-creating Norway’ refers to the fisheries and aquaculture industry as the industry with the best prospects. This gives politicians a challenge. We need to facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian seafood. We have specific natural advantages for aquaculture in Norway, but, in addition, to ensure stable and good growth, it is essential to provide good framework conditions. Fisheries and aquaculture are one of our most international industries. All 95 pst. production goes to markets outside Norway. Norway is currently one of the world’s largest exporters of seafood. Norwegian seafood products are exported to more than 150 countries and seafood is growing more strongly than other export industries. The world’s population is increasing and purchasing power is increasing in fish-eating regions, for example: In Asia, there is growth in global demand. The value creation of coastal industries can only take place on the coast. In the Labour Party, therefore, we are actively engaged in creating coastal communities where people want to live – because there are opportunities. If we're to succeed in this, we need to see more things in context. The infrastructure of Norwegian coastal regions needs to be further developed. In particular, a well-functioning transport network is important for transporting Norwegian seafood from producers to markets. Like all other industries, the fisheries and aquaculture industry also needs good public services: kindergartens, a good school and good care. Therefore, aquaculture policy is more than salmon concessions and tariffs. Norway has a special advantage as a aquaculture nation. There is therefore no reason to believe that internationalisation will result in the management and operation of aquaculture holdings being moved out of the country. With our advantage, among others. in a unique coastline, commodity access and global competitiveness, the industry will continue to grow on the basis of Norway. International investment must be seen as a wise adjustment to a global market. There is a great deal of interest in the aquaculture industry in Norwegian society. One consequence of this is that there is an active dialogue between government and growth on the development of strategies for the aquaculture industry. For the treatment of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98 perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, 23 February 1999, Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The Government is asked to develop long-term national strategies for the Norwegian farming industry, the aim of which is to secure the industrial framework conditions needed to develop in Norway. Particular attention must be paid to improving market access for Norwegian farmed fish in the different markets.’ The following was adopted during the examination of the Government's Declaration of Accession in the Grand Duchy on 23 March 2000: ‘The Government requests the submission of a valuation programme for the aquaculture industry.’ This statement is the Government's response to the Storing of these decisions, and I will examine in the following detail the basic framework conditions for the aquaculture industry. It is an objective of the Government to ensure optimal market access for Norwegian seafood through stable, long-term and thus predictable framework conditions in all markets. The EU is today the main market for Norwegian seafood. Exports are regulated by Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement. This implies the freedom of customs duty on a number of products and the reduction of customs duties on others. However, important products for Norway such as herring, mackerel, salmon, shrimps, pectinidae and marine crabs are not covered by the Agreement’s tariff reductions and are largely met at high customs rates when exported to the EU. The Government considers that the solutions of the EEA Agreement are inadequate to safeguard the interests of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in relation to the EU. It has also proved difficult to obtain better market access for Norwegian fish exports within the EEA. Today Norwegian salmon exports to the EU are regulated by the salmon agreement. The leasing agreement includes, inter alia: provisions on export duties, minimum prices and limits for export growth. The Agreement, which has worked well so far, expires on 30 June 2002. The Government’s objective is to ensure the industry’s stable, long-term and predictable framework conditions for exports of salmon to the Union market. Since access to fish is difficult in our main market countries, Norway must give priority to improving market access through negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, and new EFTA Free Trade Agreements. These are long-term processes, and it takes time for this work to produce desired results. We will keep a high profile in WTO work to help put industrial products, including fish, on the agenda of the forthcoming negotiations. There must be sustainable development in the aquaculture industry. The activity must be based on environmentally friendly production. A good marine environment is a fundamental prerequisite for harvesting and creating values from the sea. This means that environmental considerations are taken into account in the management of the industry, including in research and development, in production regulation and in administrative requirements for operations. In particular, the marine environment is important in relation to the increasing requirements of consumers for the quality and health status of food. Efforts to prevent environmental damage from activities such as: industry and shipping are therefore essential for the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry. New and improved operational practices have greatly improved the health and environmental status of the aquaculture industry. The release of nutrients by industry is not today considered a problem for the surrounding environment. However, as industry grows, we need to monitor the emission situation of nutrient salts and control the use of chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Other challenges remain related to the environmental impact of farms, including the control of salmonids and the control of the escape of farmed fish. As previously announced, in 2001, the Government will present proposals for a system of national salmon fjords and salmon streams. A system for the type-approval of fish farming facilities and equipment will be an important measure, inter alia. to reduce escape. We are now working to put such an authorisation system in place. The size has recently changed the Breeding Act, among others. to strengthen the environmental profile of the law. Those amendments entered into force on 1 January of this year. The Ministry of Fisheries will further develop environmental legislation. We have had for two years a new operating rule for fish farms and have recently laid down a new common regulation on environmental, health and operational conditions for cephalopod plants. We will also develop an overall regulatory framework with operational requirements for shellfish farming and other species. I further aim to have an environmental monitoring tool in place in the management during 2002, which introduces requirements for business operators to carry out environmental monitoring of their installations themselves in accordance with approved methods. Consumers shall be able to enjoy safety and safety in relation to Norwegian seafood. We therefore need to ensure a clean marine environment, a good fish health status, which also takes into account animal welfare, and systems to ensure that products are safe. These basic assumptions can only be achieved through an active effort both by the authorities and by the economic operators. In many cases, product documentation and traceability are a prerequisite for access to markets. It is necessary to have an official control system to demonstrate that production is sustainable and that seafood is safe. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that the feed for fish does not contain substances presenting a risk of harm to fish, humans or the environment. The Government will continue established arrangements for, inter alia: medical residue control and priority upgrading of control systems and analytical tools. This applies, for example: new methods for the screening of shellfish for possible occurrence of algal poisons. I also want to focus on fish health. In salmon and trout, almost twice as much fish meat is now produced as the total meat production in Norwegian agriculture. Nevertheless, fish farming is below 2 pst. of the total antibiotic consumption in Norway. Salmon is our freshest livestock. The good health status of today has been achieved through close cooperation between research, business and government. We will work to preserve the good health status. The production of fish and crustaceans is biological, and this requires special requirements. All biological production is vulnerable to the flare-up and reversal of naturally occurring diseases. This means that we need to focus on infectious prevention and control through increased research efforts and the use of previous experiences in salmon and trout farming. The industry has a particular responsibility to ensure good environmental, health and food safety development. In order to ensure that companies comply with regulatory requirements in these areas, I will introduce requirements for internal control in the aquaculture industry. I believe that the authorities must have a role as actively managing the industry. The availability of suitable land in the coastal zone is a fundamental prerequisite for continued growth and development. The area of the aquaculture industry must be allocated in a balance with other interests in the coastal zone through a comprehensive coastal zone planning. Nevertheless, it is important to establish an understanding in coastal communities of the enormous opportunities presented by aquaculture. Local authorities must facilitate a development in their planning to make use of these possibilities. It is reasonable to assume that future growth in aquaculture comes in the municipalities that are most active in facilitating the industry, for example: through nutrient-friendly coastal zone plans. To date, particular attention has been paid to localities for the production of salmon and trout. In recent years there has been a growing interest in shellfish cultivation and farming of other species. This has triggered new needs for land and has provided the authorities with a challenge to ensure that the allocation of sites allows the rearing of different species. We should take a closer look at the possibility of combining breeding of several species on the same site, provided that this does not have a health impact on those species. Active management of salmon and trout farming is needed and balanced production growth is important. The aquaculture industry operates biological production, where production decisions have to be taken a long time before the products are to be placed on the market. It is therefore not possible to control supply to the extent that one can in the production of non-biological products. In the salmon sector, fluctuations in supply and subsequent fluctuations in the salmon price have resulted in trade policy reactions. It is important for industry that the growth of production is stable and proportionate to market developments. Since 1996, feed quotas set by the Ministry of Fisheries have been used to regulate the production of salmon. Through the introduction of feed quotas, the government of Harlem Brundtland took a decisive step and a great deal of responsibility as the situation in the industry was very dramatic. In principle, I believe that adaptation of production to market developments should be the responsibility of operators. However, with the current market conditions, in particular with regard to the Union market, there has been a need for controlled salmon production growth. As I see it, the Norwegian authorities currently have the necessary instruments for effective regulation of total production. I therefore believe that the authorities should also play an active role in adapting the production growth of salmon and trout in the coming years. This is also a relatively broad consensus in the industry. At the same time as the aquaculture industry is becoming increasingly important to coastal communities, we see a concentration of interests that results in the accumulation of exclusive rights to operate salmon and trout sport among fewer practitioners. This does not contribute to the necessary diversity of the industry. I would therefore like to lay down in the near future general rules on the restriction of ownership of salmon and trout. The EEA Agreement may impose certain restrictions on the administration of the aquaculture industry by the authorities. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has claimed that emphasising local links in the allocation of fish farming concessions is not in accordance with Article 31 of the EEA Agreement, i.e.: the requirement of freedom of establishment. We are now working on a response to ESA where we want to contest this understanding of the EEA Agreement. We will now facilitate a new system of production regulation. In my view, the current form of production regulation in which the volume of production is measured in cubic metres combined with density rules and feed quotas should be further developed. Existing sites need to be more efficient to use. At the same time, we must ensure that production has a negative impact on the environment as far as possible. Therefore, in the context of the introduction of environmental monitoring requirements for farming sites, I intend to introduce a new production regulation system, which is based mainly on concessions, feed quotas and the carrying capacity of each site. This will in practice mean that the feed quota can only be fully used if the locality has sufficient environmental carrying capacity. In this way, consideration of the environment will be an integral part of future production regulation. The Workers' Party has launched a programme for the renewal of the public sector. There is also room for simplification and efficiency in the management of aquaculture. I am dedicated to reducing the burden on business with reporting to the public. The 2001 state budget aims to develop information and communication technology – ICT – in order to receive electronic reporting from aquaculture operators. I am now launching, in cooperation with Norwegian Fish Breeders' Association and other relevant users of Norwegian aquaculture data, a project to develop a reporting system based on the use of ICT. I assume that we will already replace today's forms next year and introduce ICT-based reporting in the aquaculture industry. The growth in the salmon and trout industry in recent years has mainly occurred without the granting of new concessions. Through, inter alia: increases in feed quotas will continue to be possible to increase production within existing concessions. I believe that there is also room for awarding new concessions. It is gratifying to note that there is a broad political consensus on this. The first allocation round will take place in 2001. In the years to come, there will be regular new additions. In this context, I would like to stress that this will be part of a comprehensive policy that ensures balanced growth of production. By opening up new concessions for salmon and trout, I will help to set up new businesses in areas that are currently not fully exploited for aquaculture purposes. Therefore, the concessions will be granted to regions with high potential at this time, but which have been granted concessions under previous allocations. In the debate around the forthcoming round of allocations, we have also considered the concerns of the smaller players and the question of prioritising those with one or two concessions. In my opinion, such allocation to smaller actors should focus primarily on actors who obviously need a better operational basis and where an improved operational basis can be difficult to achieve without multiple concessions. I believe that consideration should be given to the granting of concessions for the production of edible fish from salmon and trout. The concessions confer an exclusive right to engage in economic activity and it is reasonable that the community receives part of the value of the concessions. A free grant of concessions that can subsequently be traded with a large profit is, in my opinion, unfortunate. As a follow-up to the Storting Decision of 28 November 2000, we are now examining how a system of remuneration should be implemented. Proposals to provide for a basis in the Breeding Act for the consideration of the award have been put at the hearing and the Government will promote an odelstungsproposition on this matter before Easter. In the public debate, there has been a broad debate on withdrawals and the distribution of future profits from the fisheries and aquaculture industries. Proposals have been made for excise duties on farm concessions, such as: land tax or charge for the sale of concession rights. I believe that a thorough analysis of the impact this will have on the industry will have to be carried out before we introduce such excise duties, if necessary. Among other things, we must: assess the principal legal, economic and political issues related to the use of the coastal zone as well as the impact on the industry’s international competitiveness. I want to take the initiative to address these issues. The different instruments used in the aquaculture industry are managed by different authorities. It is important to ensure that public authorities have good cooperation, a common understanding of the objectives and the overall coordinated use of these instruments. The interaction with the fishing industry and other coastal industries is also important in order to take into account the potential of the total coastal industry, i.e. an industrial policy for the future. The Government will therefore set up its own body to coordinate the efforts of the authorities in relation to the aquaculture industry. The Committee will be chaired by the Minister for Fisheries and will have the most concerned departments in addition to the Norwegian Research Council and the State Food and Rural Development Fund. In this work, we will place great emphasis on having a good dialogue with representatives of the industry and with the regionally elected level along the coast. Sea grazing opens up new opportunities. Sea grazing is about the release and recapture of living organisms and is initially most relevant for lobster and pectinidae. I believe that sea grazing will gradually become an important nutrient pathway based on new forms of farming. However, before we can exploit this potential, we need to increase our understanding of the areas that will be affected by sea grazing activities. This applies, for example: environmental, localities, allocation and operating conditions issues. The production of seafood will continue to be a main foundation in the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry. In the future, shellfish and marine fish such as durum wheat, cod and durum wheat will form an increasingly important part of the aquaculture industry. It is also possible to obtain a number of other products based on marine raw material. An example is bio-prospecting. Bioprospection is the search for marine genes and natural bioactive molecules. Our marine areas contain unique marine raw materials in the form of proteins and other biologically active molecules, which may be applied in particular. the food and pharmaceutical industry. The government has started work to secure and protect access, rights and distribution of genetic resources. Signs and marine fish species are at an early stage, where few of the operators may refer to profitable operation. In a transitional phase, there will be a need for public birth aid for marine businesses that are not yet fully commercialised. In the long term, there is a high potential for value-added in this part of the industry. The government is now launching an innovation programme for the commercial exploitation of marine resources. In this year's state budget, there is a total of 86 million. NOK to this. The programme is part of a joint effort between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We aim to facilitate projects where the existing instrument does not fully meet the challenges facing a growing fishing and aquaculture industry. Priority areas will be the further development of marine species in farming and projects in the transition between farming and grazing. Marine farming is a competence-based industry, and I will therefore also focus on research and competence. In order for Norway to take advantage of the special conditions we have for the cultivation of the sea, private and public efforts in marine research and development need to be significantly increased. The Research Communication identifies the marine sector as one of five national areas of activity. The notification refers to the marine sector as an area in which research has a particularly high potential for increased value creation. I am very happy to note that the investment in marine research in this year's state budget shows a clear growth. This must continue in the years to come. It is important to strengthen all stages of marine research, including environmental and disease-related research. Norway currently has world-leading competence in salmon and trout farming. We must maintain and further develop efforts aimed at this part of the industry. I would like to underline the importance of following up the initiative taken to identify salmon genes. This will include, inter alia: provide a better basis for further breeding. Research aimed at product development and product quality is important to support the marketing of Norwegian seafood, both nationally and internationally. Research must also focus on new species in farming. In particular, it is important that a good deal be done to address the challenges facing the intensive production of marine juveniles. A significant challenge lies in providing adequate feed sources for further growth while preserving the character of Norwegian farmed fish as first-class seafood. We need to look at the management of wild fish resources in order to ensure the best overall yield for the fisheries and aquaculture industry, as well as to explore the possibility of exploiting new feed sources. Economic operators have the primary responsibility for financing the applied research. In addition to the R & D activities carried out under the company's own management, marine research is financed by business operators through a new R & D fee that came into effect on 1 January 2001. It is expected that the fee will amount to about 100 million. kr annually. Although no other industry has as good prospects as the aquaculture industry, the industry is struggling with poor recruitment both for vocational training at secondary level and for higher education in fisheries and farming. This is a paradox and a great challenge. On behalf of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, a working group has presented an action plan for recruitment for fisheries and farming. The action plan indicates that there will be a high level of competence in the future aquaculture industry, and puts a responsibility on all actors to improve recruitment. The strong growth of the marine industry in the 1990s has not been followed up by a similar investment in the management system. Compared to the administrative apparatus aimed at other key industries in Norway, I believe that the resources of the management of aquaculture are at an absolute minimum. At the same time, management is increasingly entrusted with new and necessary tasks in the field of quality control, production regulation and coastal zone management. From some quarters it has been argued that the lack of resources in the management of aquaculture could be a bottleneck for the further development of the industry. I would therefore like to take a closer look at the resource needs of a cost-effective management of aquaculture. This will take place as part of the Government's Public Sector Renewal Programme. My goal is to have a modern management of aquaculture with competence and capacity to adapt to the needs of the industry and to further develop the public sector as industry grows. Good governance depends on a comprehensive regulatory framework designed to facilitate increased value creation. My goal is to promote – non-inhibited – business development. The size decided in December on the proposal of the Ministry of Fisheries for the Law on Sea Pasture, which provides opportunities for new activities in the field of aquaculture. We are now working on integrating seabeds into a regulatory body to facilitate new opportunities for sea cultivation. We are also preparing work on a comprehensive review of the Breeding Act with a view to presenting proposals for a new Aquaculture Act. A new aquaculture law shall provide the basis for an active management such as: ensures environmental, food safety, coastal zone management and necessary production management. In parallel with the legal work, we want to modernise the regulatory framework for the aquaculture industry. The aim is for business operators to be able to deal with an overall regulatory framework, which is enshrined in a common aquaculture law. I began this presentation by describing how two entrepreneurs created a basis for what is today modern salmon farming. The efforts of individuals, businesses and organisations, together with research efforts and the organisation of the authorities, have been crucial for us to be able to get where we are today. I have presented measures that I believe will help the aquaculture industry to develop further as one of Norway's leading growth industries. Responsibility for the actual realisation of the significant potential of the marine sector rests with the operators. The responsibility of the authorities is to provide the industry with good framework conditions. The Government will: priority work to improve access to the market for Norwegian seafood to maintain a high profile in WTO work to help industrial products, including fish, be placed on the agenda of the forthcoming negotiations working for a clean marine environment and ensure that consumers can experience safety and safety in relation to Norwegian seafood play an active role in adapting the production growth of salmon and trout to market a project to develop a reporting system for the aquaculture industry based on the use of ICT work to introduce a new production regulation system based mainly on concessions, feed quotas and the capacity of each locality to grant new concessions for the production of salmon and trout and to continue to pay for these efforts in enhancing the effort of marine research to strengthen marine management; In order to realise the value creation potential, good cooperation, a common understanding of the objectives and the coordinated use of instruments are important. The interaction with the other fishing industries and other coastal industries is also important to exploit the potential of the total coastal industry. The Government will therefore set up its own body to coordinate the efforts of the authorities in relation to the aquaculture industry. In the Workers' Party, we are dedicated to making use of the possibilities. To succeed, we need to bet now. It's through a joint effort we can achieve our goals. Our common challenge is to take advantage of the extensive opportunities available in the exploitation of our marine resources. In this way, the fisheries and aquaculture industries can be involved and form the basis for Norway to continue to be a good country to live in in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-23.ana.ud2559e269	The President would like to suggest that the Minister of Fisheries’ payments be made for the management of a later meeting – and see it as agreed.
