ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e36	Representatives John Dale and Marit Nybakk, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From 21 May to 23 May, to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Istanbul, the representative Tom Thoresen has an application for leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e62	The representative Annelise Höegh will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e65	On behalf of the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I propose that the hospitals be fully reimbursed for their expenditure on cancer medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e70	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e73	On behalf of the representative Odd Roger Enoksen and myself, I will be presented with proposals for a review of the law on concession power.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e99	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Jørgen Kosmo State Council Terje Moe Gustavsen State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Oddvard Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e118	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In recent years, appropriations for the transport sector have had a downward trend. From the LO and from the construction industry it is reported that there is a significant available capacity in the sector, more than 3000 people are reported. When the activity in the road construction industry is reduced, it is largely the private operators who have to take it down, never, never the state road system. I stand here with a letter from a dubious contractor who from 1989 has won a maintenance contract each and every time. He has now been informed by the State Road Administration that no, now that contract is not to be tendered, they will take this work for themselves, because they need it. What does the Council of State think of such a procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e129	Let me first point out that the Government, through the submission to the National Transport Plan, has given clear signals of an increased investment in the transport sector over the next ten years. During Storting’s treatment of the transport plan, it was added to a framework such as: took into account the situation in the construction industry, which is worrying. On that basis, it was suggested that we could invest further in the years that are coming. I fully agree that it is difficult to maintain the competence of the construction industry. We are now working on this in relation to the 2002 government budget, and the situation in the industry is an important element in the government’s assessments. As for the relationship with the Road Service, I would like to stress that about 23 pst. of what is granted for road purposes each year is used by the Road Service’s own production unit. I am concerned that we can keep a production unit that is so large that we can maintain the competence of the Road Administration, so that the Road Administration can be good at planning, designing and implementing – in short, that you can also order from others. Sometimes you will have the kind of consequences presented by the representative Nilsen, and that is, of course, regrettable in the individual case. But I think it is extremely important for society to have a road system that is as competent as possible, and then it is in the nature of the matter that a fairly stable policy must be pursued with regard to labour over time. But as I said, when we move in with further investment in the road sector, it will primarily benefit private operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e140	I thank you for the answer, although I must honestly admit that I think it was reasonably round and not exactly. Does the Council not see that when people pledge houses and homes to start a private enterprise, they will feel absolutely unreasonable that they will lose a contract only on the grounds that the State Road Administration is using the contract for its own employees, at any price? Yesterday, the Prime Minister said here in the Chamber that we're not going to get enough for the tax dollars. We can all agree on that. But how in the world are you going to do that when you take away the incentives that are going to be used just to get the most back for the tax money? Is it, in fact, that a job in the private sector is less important for the Workers' Party than for the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e145	For us, full employment is a crucial objective regardless of whether it is in the public or private sector. We are committed to making the best use of society's resources. This is precisely why it is important that we have a high-skilled road service that can be involved and manage the large resources we provide for road construction and road maintenance in Norway. This is, by and large, also a well-known ideological fight. That the right is concerned with letting the private closer into this area is no news, and I believe that we are creating a good balance between the private and public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e150	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e153	I would like to follow up the question from the representative Oddvard Nilsen. In the context of the examination of the national transport plan, the Workers' Party also acknowledged that the situation in the construction industry has become more difficult and that 2000 to 3000 employees have been permitted or terminated. In retrospect, the situation has deteriorated, and LO Industrie has asked the Government to increase the appropriations for installations by at least NOK 2 billion in the context of the revised national budget. The centre parties have long pointed out that there was room for increased transport appropriations, and we tried to do so in connection with the 2001 budget. My question to the Minister for Transport now is whether, when dealing with the revised national budget, he can be willing to increase the appropriations for transport, so that industry permits can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e162	The kind of work we're talking about here is often long-term work, where you get the results after a lot of time. There is no doubt that the situation in the civil engineering sector is now marked by a sharp reduction in efforts on the transport side during the previous government — otherwise also through the budgetary agreement with the Right. So we now have relatively few plants in operation, and that is what characterises the industry. We are going to go into this offensively and will consider what this will mean for the 2002 budget. When we get that far, I hope that we will be able to provide budgets that have a stake far beyond what we saw under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e168	Thore Aksel Nistad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e171	The Council of State is very concerned that he should retain the high level of competence within the Road Administration. And it's clear that the council will keep the Road Service and let the other less private contractors scour and walk. On the other hand, State Consultant, who has been commissioned by the Ministry of Transport to investigate how different levels of competitive outsourcing can contribute to efficiency: ‘Statskonsult recommends adding to the almost complete competitive outsourcing of operations, maintenance and development tasks at Vegvesen. This is primarily justified for reasons of efficiency.’» How does that attitude match what the Council of State is now telling us, that it is the Road Service that has the high competence, and that it is the Road Service that will continue to operate when there are meager times and too little money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e183	Once again, I want to stress that the distribution we now have is that about 23 pst. be used by the Road Service Production Department. That means 77 pst. of what we make available for road purposes, private actors are taking care of. So this is going to be 23 pst. Which is referred to here, and it's important to keep this ratio clear. Of course, we are very concerned about efficiency in the Road Service. I understand that the only good reason for keeping a roadway in state control in the future is that it turns out to be effective and decent for society. I believe it is important to give weight to other factors than those mentioned in the Statskonsult report, inter alia. that the manufacturing part is part of the totality of the Road Service and has an important strategic role to play in making the Road Service more fully competent in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e190	Jorunn Ringstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e193	In its first response to the representative Oddvard Nilsen, the Council of State said that the work on the national transport plan was aimed at increasing the level of transport over the next ten years. But we should be able to think about the year we're in, too, and it's not new that we have a lot of unemployment in the construction industry. We knew it in the fall when we discussed the 2001 budget. We've got new statistics that show that there are several thousand unemployed in the construction industry. Governments are busy with maintaining the competence of the Road Administration. I agree with the Council of State. But we don't have to look after ourselves to ensure that the Road Service gets the assignment that is, and the private goes free, when it's a minimum of mission. When there are 3,000 unemployed in the construction industry today, there must be room to put free hands into work. I think we have that number for six months. Does the Council of State think we'll bet enough on transportation when we have such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e202	I believe that there is a need to invest more in transport, and this has been demonstrated by my previous answers. But I repeat that in this industry, projects tend to go over several years, and now when you see a decline in activity, it's not least because of reduced appropriations two, three, four years ago. It is in stark contrast to the frameworks set up by the majority at the time in the Road and Road Road Road Plan. That's what we're now seeing the consequence of. That is what we need to clean up, and that is what we intend to do in the ordinary 2002 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e207	Inger Stolt-Nielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e210	When the focus was on the open-end in the construction industry in March, it was found that we have quite a number of road projects in this country with retangled tunnels, and bridges that end up in the field without a mooring. Then the Council of State said to look at this in the revised budget and try to do something about the situation and get your hands off the job. When there are 3,000 unemployed workers, when there is a machine park for hundreds of millions of dollars parked, and when we have incomplete road projects across the country, how can it be socially sound to keep workers on leave while the engine park is standing and resting, while the whole country is screaming for more means of transport? Is there not a need to maintain overall road construction skills in Norway, not only in the state road system, but also in private business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e217	The reason why some of the road projects have been stopped is precisely the decline in the appropriations in the years in which they occurred. Budgetary settlements were entered into on the right with the intermediate lots. That's what we see the result of, and we're doing a lot to fix this. We've been running stopped projects this year, and we're going to continue that policy forward, because I fully agree that some of the least worth we have is just that we can't complete what we're dealing with. It is also true that when we take this into account, it will of course employ available hands in the construction industry. I hope we can do that to a reasonable extent when we come to the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e222	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e225	I would like to ask a question to the Council of State, Terje Moe Gustavsen. I will quote from the Evening Post on 12 May, where it says that the Railway Agency admits that trains did not tolerate high speed: «A lack of knowledge The post office has evidence that, in a number of turns on the Dovrebahn, the train chassis has been subjected to greater loads than it was designed for, provided that the signature trains run at the speed determined so far by the railway station through the signage. ‘... The NSB is responsible for the train equipment. The railway works are responsible for the infrastructure. In fact, a cooperative body was established several years ago, precisely to ensure that the completely necessary interconnection and coordination between them would slip well after the division that we got between the NSAB and the Railway Agency. Can the Council of State give an assessment of what has happened? Could it be a lack of communication, interconnection, just between the NSB and the railway station? It seems that this coordinating body is not fully functioning after the intention, unfortunately, when it comes to the purchase of trains which are supposed to have high speeds but cannot use the existing railway because there are too many loads. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] What does the Council of State think should be done to make that coordinating body work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e242	The President calls for regularity – even when it comes to posts!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e245	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e250	I am asking for an understanding that I do not go deep into the technical aspects of this, and I did not see it as the main point of the representative. There is little doubt that we have been faced here with new technologies that have been demanding to get involved. At the same time, it's also a relatively short time since we had the division between the railway station and the NSB. The actual management division took place as known on 1 July 1999. There is little doubt that this has been a potential for improvement in the communication between the NSB BA and the Railway Agency, for that matter also in relation to the Railway Authority. I have the impression that this is now within a number of better tracks, literally – something that is also necessary. Of course, I am sure that there are many of us who would have avoided getting into these situations, both in terms of tragic accidents and in relation to material problems. But I feel reasonably confident that you are now in a dialogue that at least you can have a good foothold for what's going to happen in the future. And I hope and believe that through this one can also get a reasonable use of the material acquired and that of course it can be carried out in a good and safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e259	I thank you for the answer so far. But for the NSB, the infrastructure is crucial for competitiveness. We know a lot about that. This means that the priorities of the NSB and the Railway Agency should actually be coordinated. It must be coordinated in order to obtain a proper, good effect of the material to be run on the line. There is little use to bet on new, fast trains on one route, while the railway system may be prioritizing a completely different route. How does the Council of State think this should be done? Is the coordinating body what should then enter here? At the same time, I have to ask a question as to whether the division of responsibility for infrastructure and materials is appropriate and optimal. We have a single-track railway across most of our network, which is not exactly suitable for competition on the track, as this separation was actually initially intended for. How can coordination be best achieved in order to achieve the best possible result?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e268	Let me first say that of course I fully agree that there is a close link between the track and what is on top, and that there must be good coordination of this. Here we have the impression that the coordinating body, as I mentioned in my main response, works better and that the dialogue is better than it has been in the past. Now it's also true that we have approx. five years of experience in the formal legal separation in 1996 and we have a couple of years of experience in the field of railway supervision. I am sure that the representative, Mr Kofoed-Larsen, has recorded that, in the joint motion for a resolution on the revised budget, we have called for a review of the roles to assess whether there is a good sharing, both in terms of security issues and, of course, also in relation to operational issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e275	There will be follow-up questions – Thore Aksel Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e278	It is good that the Council of State points out that this is new technology. But it's well known in other parts of the world, so it's not exactly about some completely revolutionary new technology. Now it's going to be so good, with cooperation and dialogue between the NSB and the Railway Agency. Luckily, I'd say today, the Progress Party was the only ones who wouldn't bet on tiltogens, because we realized that driving on a 100-year-old net didn't go for new and modern trains. All the time, you owe it to new technology – and you say that cooperation is going to be better. Could it not be that the level of competence of both the Railway Agency and the NSB is too poor to make the right decisions? Instead of making a whole series of excuses, and planning ahead, could you not go down to the core of this and admit that competence is not high enough to make the right decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e287	As far as new technology is concerned, it is enough that the tilting technology is not very widespread, at least not in relation to the type of track bodies that we have in Norway. So I think that's a good reason to say that here you have to gain experience with new technology. Otherwise, it's not like this is just negative. We also have a business – the Fly train – which most believe works well. Of course, the success of the Flytog is primarily due to the learning that has taken place, especially from the railway environment in Norway. So here you can also show positive things. The representative Nistad said that the Progress Party had voted against tilting trains. It is probably the case that the tradition of the Progress Party is roughly not to bet very much on the train, and then it is also clear that it is relatively easier compared to, among other things. technical stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e296	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e299	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. The tradition faith carries out the farm operations in connection with the agricultural settlement. We have witnessed a number of illegal actions in the past, for example: The Malvik action and the Dovrejell action, which were tax denial actions. We also know that actionists among the farmers have assessed slow action, they have assessed driving dung spreaders onto the roads, blocking dairies, etc. What's new this year is that two leaders in Rogaland Farmers and Small Farmers have acted as leaders in actions from Dalane and Jären. They are depriving themselves of their duties as leaders because there is a duty of peace during the negotiations on agricultural settlement. What are the reactions of the Council of State to the type of action that should be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e310	My immediate reaction to the representative Hedstrom here is that I am not planning or assessing any reactions in relation to the type of actions. It must be the police around that assesses whether or not the inhabitants of this country commit illegalities. It would have been very artificial for an agricultural minister with the law in hand to assess whether tractor driving, the spread of dung or what it should be are infringements of different laws. I think I'll focus first and foremost on spreading, etc. is observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e318	What the Council of State then says is that he accepts that high-ranking persons in the Bond Team and the Bond and Small User Team – yes, perhaps right up to the management involved in the negotiations – can resign from their duties and participate actively in actions. Does the Council of State really think that this is acceptable? In the past, the peasant team has taken away from illegal actions even though they have had an understanding of what the members are doing. But after a possible break in the agricultural negotiations, they have not been negative about actions. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a questionable position to take? I suppose this will make the debates very much worse, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e325	I actually just have to admit that I've spent very little energy on just these actions. What I have used energy on is to try to get up with as good an offer as possible as possible as a basis for the negotiations, and then I have used all the strengths to get those negotiations to go in the right direction. I have, of course, also recorded that both the head of the Small User Team and the head of the Farm Team – nationally – have said that they are concerned about having a duty of peace during the negotiations. But to assess whether two members of Rogaland are complying with the duty of peace or not by driving a tractor to Lveggal, I have simply had no time for that in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e332	We will then proceed – with main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e335	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. The entry Norge BA is now in the process of converting to many more Posts in Stores instead of the traditional post offices that we have been accustomed to so far. This is positive to the extent that it will lead to longer opening times for individuals compared to the previous ones. But it doesn't help with extended opening time if the mail customers don't get the services they want and need. And now the messages come from many places in the country that very many of the Mails in Stores that have been established have very limited service provision. One sheep, for example. not sending packages to the rest of the world, one cannot provide financial services, one cannot send unaddressed C-mail to all households in a municipality, one cannot access the ticket service system – to name a few of the services that mail customers have been denied at Post in Store. Does the State Council believe that Posten Norge BA meets the concession requirements when these services are not included in Post i Storeikk?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e344	First, let me say that through the current investment, there is a significant increase in the number of places where postal services can be provided, and – not least – there is a significant increase in the number of hours per day on which it is possible to reach the Post Office. That's why I think in total that this is clearly in the right direction. The first post in Store was opened on March 1st this year, so we've now gained two and a half months' experience. This is also the case in which these experiences must be part of establishing the basis for the decisions to be made in the Post regarding the scope of the service provision. This is not least closely followed by the Post and Telecommunications Authority. I have also recorded that there has been some discussion, perhaps primarily in relation to foreign packages. I assume that the Post will ensure an equivalent service offer with respect to Post in Store, and if this should be problematic with respect to the concession, I assume that the Postal and Telecommunications Authority will intervene in this in an appropriate manner based on the assessments made by the supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e353	An extended opening time is positive, but it does not help when a meeting a postman who cannot help you with the services requested. When this matter was debated in Stortinget, the majority of the Committee on Transport made it clear from: ‘The majority agree with the Ministry’s assessment that it is not appropriate to relax the service requirements, as set out in the Post concession. The Committee considers that the entry must also comply with the concession requirements after the conversion.’;» And the concession requirement says as one point: mail to/from abroad up to 20 kg. What is the reason why the service is not present in all Mail Stores? Here are also other points that belong to what are basic services for the Post, e.g. mass consignments. Then it must be unthinkable that some Mail in Store do not have those services. What would the State Council do to ensure that the services meet the requirements of the concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e365	It is essential to have an equivalent postal service on a national basis, and I agree that it does not, of course, help with long opening hours if you are not allowed to do what to do. I have to say, however, that with the high degree of attention that the Post has in general in the population, reasonably, and with the high interest that it is also in the media context, it is not very much that we have so far registered by negative signals in relation to the Post. But it is closely followed. In the case of mail to/from abroad, there is a question where I know that some exemption applications have been evaluated. But I assume that both the post office and not least the supervision base the decisions that have been made also here in the house, and the comments that were accepted here in the house. As far as the issue of mass extradition is concerned, I would say that then we are in an area that requires relatively heavy specialised knowledge. This has also been the case in the past, when the Post had it in its own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e374	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e377	It's for the Minister of Transport. Yesterday, at a conference in Tromsø, the Minister for Transport addressed a state assessment of the railways, which still suffers from inconsistency from the 1960s and 1970s, he said – at that time the railway had only impotent lovers. Most of the time in the 1960s and 1970s and subsequent years, the Workers' Party has been responsible for railway policy in the country. As the family at large, it does not hold to blame for impotent lovers when the railway is not on track. And according to Kosmo, the Minister of Transport, who took the train from 1985, nothing has improved, it has become worse and worse by the millennium. And then, when you look at the investment in Europe, you wonder from the point of view of the transport plan: does the Minister for Transport think that the measures proposed there are sufficient to promise his colleague Kosmo improvements in the future, so that he can start taking the train again and recommend others to do so? Or is it for puzzles what is suggested there, to get the train on track? Just so you can't live forever only with impotent lovers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e386	The president understood that Moe Gustavsen was the recipient!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e389	I would like to repeat what I said in Tromsø yesterday, that we see something backwards, and perhaps especially in the 1960s and 1970s and also in part in the 1980s, there was a very modest investment on the railways in Norway. Since the construction of the railway is reasonably long-term, we are now struggling with an infrastructure that is too poor and that needs to be upgraded. I will probably correct the impression the representative Myrvoll created in relation to this with impotence, because I am not limited to saying that the railway was surrounded by impotent lovers in the 1960s and 1970s. I said it probably more generally, and it has remained up to today. So it's important that we do something about it now. With regard to bets now, there is a heavy stake in the national transport plan, and it knows the representative Myrvoll very well. Compared to previous decades, there is a solid investment in the infrastructure, not least around the largest cities: Oslo and Stavanger, and so is Trondheim. Whether it gets Kosmo State Council to take the train again should be uncertain, there may also be other events that make it necessary for him to take the train. But I am sure that this infrastructure effort will at least provide a solid basis for getting the rail again as an attractive means of travel in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e399	I would like to ask additional questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration Kosmo. The Minister has heard the answer from the Moe Gustavsen Council. Is there something that Cosmo thinks can lead to the railway really getting a lift, that you don't just have to surround yourself with impotent lovers, but has got a political leadership that pays so that Kosmo thinks he can start taking the train again, and recommend others to do the same? Or is this really going on ahead, so that you should live with the sins of the past even in the future when Cosmo is going to go into town? I hope he won't stop already until the fall, because the polls aren't quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e406	The President hopes that this will not be a debate on sleeping cars! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e411	No, it's not that far from Sparkum to Oslo! Otherwise, I actually think of myself as a potent lover of the NSB. I'm very concerned that the NSB should be able to provide a transport offer especially around the big cities that allow us to have a good public transport system. The alternative to this would be that we drown in car traffic, and I don't think that's in anyone's interest. I certainly feel that the actions that are now being undertaken on the basis of the initiative of the Minister of Transport mean that we might get a look at the situation that will allow me to be able to recommend people to take the train in the future. I owe it to make it clear that this was the starting point – not if I took the train or one, but if I recommended my closest friends to take the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e418	We'll have another letter soon!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e423	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e426	My follow-up question goes on as under the term “energy” – I choose to use a slightly different metaphor – the Councils of State unite Kosmo and Moe Gustavsen, namely the Vestfold Railway. At what point can it be expected that the glittering double track that is now lying entirely unused – totally virgin – past Sande, almost all the way to Holmestrand, can be put into service, in the sense that the signalling system that should have been in place long ago is starting to work? Then I believe that the fear that the train does not keep a goal in the offer to Oslo can also be eased. When that double track starts, it gets better on the Westfold course. When does that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e431	I have to admit that one of the less fortunate things we have is this double track, which is exactly, as the representative Dørum says, there is a virginity, without being put into service. When we know at the same time that putting this track into use will provide a significant relief on the Westfold track, it's broken that it's lying there. The reason for this is that ATC – the automatic train stop systems – and the remote control systems are still being approved. It has proved to be a far more extensive task than what you thought. There are also major problems with the supplier. The last date I have been given for when this can be used is 1 October, but, as you know, you have been exposed here before. However, that is the last date I have been given – and no one can accuse us of being very electoral on that date.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e436	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e439	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Transport. It is tempting to report when someone thinks they are potential lovers, and even by the NSB, and then it refers to the national transport plan, which should then be, to say the same, the rescue for those who are frustrated. I would like to remind you that, for example, on the purchase of train services, the level in Norway is well below the level in Europe, and far below what should be expected to be offered to customers – if you expect them to continue to take the train, and perhaps someone, like Kosmo, will come back and take the train. Is it true that the Minister believes that what is in the national transport plan is sufficient, or does the Minister think that it is a minimum? And is the Minister willing to enter into cooperation in the next period that can improve this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e446	The railway network around the largest cities is now largely fully exploited, at least around Oslo. Thus, it needs to build new tracks to really get a lift in terms of capacity. In the national transport plan, there are, among other things, construction of new double track between Oslo and Asker and between Oslo and Ski. It will make a lot of sense around Oslo. There is a new double track between Stavanger and Sandnes – it is important there. In Trondheim there is a new tunnel through the Givingåsen – it is important there. What we're doing is we're buying services to the extent that we have material and infrastructure that can withstand it today. I would like to point out that, in the submission to the revised national budget, we are now proposing to allocate an additional 238 million. NOK for the purchase of services, precisely because we were supposed to keep prices stable and not cut the offer. But the restriction is therefore the infrastructure, and that is where the focus lies primarily in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e451	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e455	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. In connection with the national transport plan, it was described in the Ministry’s submission to the Stortinget that one also looked at organisational measures in order simply to get more money or more out of the money in public transport. One of these grips described in the document relates to the situation in the Oslo area. Here, in practice, we have a very large area of housing and labour market, but it is not organised in such a way that public transport exploits it. I myself know the work that has been done, among other things. to think Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud as a whole, where the county municipalities come in, but also the state. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have such a state coordinating body for public transport in Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud, where the county council has a majority, but where the state is in such a way that when they enter a room, the worst thing that can happen is that the state of things remains as they were when you get out, but the best thing that can happen is to improve the effort to get more value for money? Will such an initiative be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e460	There are three key strands in strengthening public transport. It's infrastructure, organisation and money. And all of these three keywords are very important. With regard to the organisation of public transport, we must take on board the fact that, in particular, in this area described by the representative of Dørum, there is an incredible amount of cross-border and cross-border travel. Notably few people are going to the county border. And so there's a significant need to organize this in a better way. I see a need to get to some form of coordination committee that can address the transport challenges, it is both collective and otherwise throughout this region – I think it is a neglected planning work – and also go further in terms of how to organise public transport. Because it has to be the needs of the users that are at the center here. Users may not be inhibited by different companies and different organisation. I see that this is a long canvas to bleach, but I see the important starting point that this is just a coherent housing and labour market region. If we are really to succeed in further strengthening public transport, it is absolutely necessary to find these tools. And I want to work to find these tools and not try to give it the impression that I have them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e474	I see this as a positive step forward, so I want to focus on money. It is well known that the largest collective transport system, at least the largest rail collective transport system in Norway, is the Oslo T-Bahn of 70 million. passengers per year. I take it for granted that before the summer the city council will go in for the necessary Oslopacket 2, which will bring in money to contribute to the collective upgrading, but just as fully you will face a very comprehensive problem of renewing the T-Bahn vehicles to a total value of NOK 4-4,5 billion. This will require untraditional cooperation between others. Trafficrs have to do their own, Oslo Municipality has to do its own, but also the state. Will the Council of State, on a principle basis, be willing to engage in discussions with the municipality as well, given that it is doing its job on the part of the municipality and through the payment of traffic charges to create an overall split-up and hard work to renew this? For the result of not renewing it, standards will be lower, and there will be an increased pressure on the road requirements already existing in this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e483	Oslopackak 2 is known as a spice layer between the state, the users and the county municipalities. And there it is that the state has assumed responsibility for the infrastructure, primarily the double tracks, and so it is that the payment of road transport charges should partly go to infrastructure measures on the road and tolling partly on the road and partly to strengthen the material. I believe that base package should be in place. However, it is important that the State should, among other things, goes in and takes a partial responsibility on the infrastructure side as well, inter alia. in Oslo in the case of the T-Bahn. And there we, with whom the representative Dørum is very familiar, have already entered into the T-banning. Of course, we'll follow that up. This also applies to other infrastructure measures where there is a clear need, including: on the western T-courses, in order for them to have a body on which to drive. I don't want to say here and now that I want to go into any splinter layer also in relation to material. My starting point is this splice package so far. And the first thing I want to wait for now is something that is needed very quickly, namely that Oslo joins its obligations in relation to Oslopack 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e490	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e493	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: In 1999 safety belts were required in all new buses, and Norwegian law states that where there are belts, these should be used. In the Official Journal of Bergen it is read that the directive on the use of belts in all new buses has become a failure. People are bluffing, and the police have not fined anyone since the order came in 1999. The road service, which is the other body entitled to fine, will begin to punish passengers without a bus belt as soon as possible with a fine of NOK 750. However, the police find it pointless that non-contained passengers should be fined, while at the same time standing on the buses is permitted. The rule is against people's perception of justice. The road system disagrees with the police, and the state road system in Hordaland will have fines now. How does the Council of State view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e500	It is correct, as the representative Stensaker says, that buses registered after a certain time must have belts installed and, where there are belts installed, they must be used. An exception has been made for urban strips. This is a difficult and demanding issue, because there is no doubt that there are safety gains in using safety belts even on buses. About a month ago we had a bad bus accident in More and Romesdal, where passengers were thrown out of the bus when the bus crashed, and it could very easily get a much more tragic exit than it did. So there is no doubt that safety belts on buses are a significant safety factor, and that is exactly what is the basis for the imposition of belt mounting. But I agree with and agree that this raises many demanding issues, including: the representative, Stensaker, points out that one can therefore be fined for not using a belt on a bus in which it is installed, if one is seated, while standing passengers are not hung up, nor is any fee imposed. We have here to find practical ways to do this. These include: questions to allow standing passengers. Here, then, we have to assess the duty of the driver to ensure that the belt is used and, in the last run, the control questions as well. These are the regulations that the department is working on. I realize that it is reasonably demanding, but in order to keep our eyes on road safety, we also need to find schemes that help to ensure bus passengers even better than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e509	I thank you for your answer. The road service has visited the buses regularly to warn about the danger of fines and to teach people to wear the safety belt. There have been almost three years of wasted work. «The passengers look at us strangely when we ask them to wear the safety belts. They are not used to this." This is said by the head of the state road inspection in Hordaland, Tom Børsild, to Bergen's Official Journal. He goes on to say: «As soon as we have been told if the directorate supports our view, we will issue a fee. We do not have the capacity to fine everyone, but we will distribute the fee to two-three people on each bus." Now, on longer bus routes, some drivers ask passengers to attach the safety belt in order to inform them about the journey. But it's hard to do the same thing on the regular buses. Then one had to repeat the message quite many times during a bus trip. The Ministry of Transport has had the rules out of consultation and is dealing with new regulations. The Ministry has indicated that there may be a change in the law. In that case, the use of a bus belt may become a voluntary matter. When will the legislative amendment be proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e528	It is quite obvious that this also needs to be seen in the light of the number of buses fitted with belts. Of course, that number will continue to increase with the replacement of the bus park. Here we also have a problem that one day you can travel by bus with a belt, and the next day without a belt. But I would like to repeat that it is a goal to increase the safety of bus passengers. Everyone should agree with that. When it comes to charging, it's obvious that you can't add up to a practice that has in itself an arbitrary nature, where you practically fine those you don't like to watch, while the others you let go. There must be a consistent approach here. The problem is, of course, to have a rule without the possibility of sanctions or penalties. Over time, we need to develop a regulatory framework to ensure the safety of bus passengers and at the same time have sensible sanctioning mechanisms. We're working on those regulations. I can't say anything about today when we finish this, including. because this is a demanding job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e535	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e538	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. First of all, I want to say that I am very pleased with what was said in the answer to a previous question, from the representative Hedstrøm, about how the Minister of Agriculture spends time, what he spends time at the moment. It's one thing that it hasn't been focused on lately, and it's the price evolution and who's to blame for the food price path. Peasants have not received a higher price in recent years. To a small extent the intermediate, the wholesale level, but to a large extent the chains have clearly taken more of these prices. There the Minister of Agriculture has taken a diligent initiative. Among other things, he has announced war on the food chain through quite a look-up in the VG and will ensure that prices go down. I have promised full support on behalf of the Christian People's Party, but what happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e548	What has been the problem of investigating what has happened from January 1999 until last autumn, when I took this initiative for the first time, is that the target prices, as Lilletun says, have fallen. Wholesale prices have fallen, while consumer prices have not fallen. There has then been a gap between the level of consumer prices and what the farmer gets for his products, and it has been important for me to try to identify who has taken increased margins. It is also true, as Lilletun says, that I have had a fairly simple analysis, but nevertheless an analysis, linked to my suspicions of having gone in the direction of the food industry. But I've always stressed that there are three terms between the wholesale level and the consumer. It's the cutting businesses, it's the processing bit on the meat side, and it's the food industry. All three are potential sinners. What we have at that time is an insight into price formations between wholesale and consumer price levels. Finally, after a lot of time and though, we managed to gain insight into this number material on some important border trade products, because I have focused in particular on border trade. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, NILF, has, in cooperation with ECON, been using the data in the last few months and this report, which will reveal what has happened, has been completed on Tuesday of the coming week and will then be published. I do not know the content, but I will first have it delivered as a contracting entity, and then it will be public beyond Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e555	I then thank you for the answer and wait excitedly for both the result and the follow-up measures. I suspect that the Council of State's somewhat simple analysis has a lot to do with it. It is important for action to be taken, and it will be followed up by us. Then I'll change the theme. Agricultural industries continue to be affected by optimism, or rather the lack of optimism in agriculture. It's an important job for all of us, and not least for the Minister of Agriculture, to get young people to dry and want to bet on agriculture. If we are to have living areas, agriculture is fundamentally important. Then my simple question to the Minister is: Is there a hope that the optimism can come back a little when these days we are inside are over and we get a result from the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e562	As long as it's life, it's hope. Of course it is. At the same time, I am very concerned that it is also important in relation to the agricultural industry that the belief in the future is based on a realistic foundation, so that we do not politically paint the future pink, but try to draw a correct picture of the challenges facing the industry. Then it is clear that the Storting through the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999–2000 last year was quite so realistic in terms of, for example: the potential for income in the future, by pointing out that there was diversity, good use of market opportunities, structural changes, etc. which would primarily form the means of income. It is important that we draw is an honest picture, but that it should be characterized by optimism, of course I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e567	There will be follow-up questions – Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e570	Whether the optimism comes back or not, we'll soon be able to read the number of crap classes that are on their way to the capital. Then you'll probably get an indication at least. But what was Lilletun's original question was related to the price promise that the government has given, that the price of food should drop 10 pst. during this year, which is described in part in the revised national budget, if, inter alia: half-life and how this will turn out. The Minister of Agriculture has two contradictions, one might say, considering working after. First of all, food prices are going down by 10 pst. The increase in target prices, which the media say will take place in the context of agricultural negotiations, will, of course, counteract this possibility. The second is that the Storting has unanimously said that price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries should be reduced. Can the Council of State guarantee that when, for example, On 1 September he takes a measure on this, has he met the conditions that Stortinget has set for what price?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e581	I think it's hard here to operate with guarantees. But let me stress that for me, the important objective is to reduce price differences, especially in relation to Sweden, and especially in relation to the type of products that are exposed to border trade. It is not that the Nordics travel to Sweden and trade all kinds of agricultural products; there are a few products that are particularly exposed to border trade. And it's a set of tools that need to be used to achieve goals. I want to say that I am optimistic considering that for a good part of these important border trade products, the sum of the measures that have been taken in the last two years will lead to, whether we are talking about 1 July or for that part 1 December, that it will now be less profitable to go to Sweden and act than it was before we started this race.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e586	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e589	The benefits are to reach consumers, said Gunhild Island, in 1995, when farmers were deprived of billions in prices. The Council of State continues to suspect that the chains serve too much, despite the fact that the wealth there is not hidden, and despite the fact that the poor economic situation in agriculture is not hidden. We cannot get the lowest prices in Norway, because of long transport distances, different climates, animal welfare, geography and not least our pay level, which, of course, makes Norwegian agriculture expensive. We have 12 pst. lower food prices in Norway compared to Sweden, based on wage levels in the two countries. And my question is: When will the Council of State help to explain why Norwegian food prices need to be at that level, why can they not be even cheaper than in Sweden, as the conditions for Norwegian agriculture are?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e598	This is a very common approach from the representative Lund. What is my point of comparing the direct price picture in Norway and Sweden is the fact that Norwegians choose to go to Sweden and act if they find it profitable, regardless of whether the Swedishs use more of their wages for food than the Norwegians do. That's not what the population in Eastfold thinks. He says that well, the choppers are cheaper in Sweden, then I drive there and trade it. This means that for every chopper you buy in Sweden, Norwegian farmers are sold fewer chops. This means reduced incomes for Norwegian farmers and creates a problem by the disappearance of the market for Norwegian agriculture. So we have to focus on the fact that the Norwegians buy their chops in Norway, and then we get to sell more chops. We get a little bit less per. Kotelet, but they sell more in sum. It generates increased income for Norwegian agriculture. I don't think this is particularly complicated, but at least that's the thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e607	Øystein Hedstrom – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e610	As an east fold, I want to negotiate that Kari and Ola Eastfolding will continue to elect to Sweden if we do nothing with the big price differences, and I look forward to the investigation that is now to come. Kåre Gjønnes started this work of looking at all stages of the value chain to see who took out bigger margins. What we know is that because of the transregulated Norwegian agricultural system, we are now starting to have a deficit in meat. And that means that prices are increasing, that you're taking out the target prices. Now Norwegian meat and others have also announced that – perhaps only after the election – they will increase their prices a lot. But in the absence of meat, it could not be an idea that we soon started importing meat again – we imported from Finland before we had the last stop because of BSE – to get a little more pressure in this system and allow prices not to go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e618	If the situation becomes that there will be a shortage of meat in the Norwegian market, we will make administrative tariff reductions that will allow us to import meat. This is a situation that is constantly being monitored, and the assumption is that there will be enough Norwegian production. It is acceptable to take out the target price, but it is clear that if we get the impression that we are trying to limit production here to create deficit situations in Norwegian markets, we will add up to administrative tariff reductions in order to obtain imports. Per. Today we don't have such a situation in the market, but this is important that we follow up all the time. At the same time, it is important to recognise that Norwegian Meat is, of course, allowed to establish a price policy that takes out the target prices that Stortinget has actually adopted – that must be allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e625	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e630	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Church, Education and Research as the Council of State. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. Question 13, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Søren Fredrik Voie. Question 14, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. Question 19, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, this question is moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by Mr Falch. Question 20, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Social Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 21, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. Question 22, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e654	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In advance of the World Conference on Racism in Durban on 31 August–7. September 2001 will focus on addressing the so-called question of compensation. Developing countries demand that the historical injustice committed against millions of people through slavery, colonialism, occupation and ethnic cleansing be excused and compensated. The requirement meets significant resistance. The issue may be crucial for the implementation of the conference. What initiatives will Norway take to address this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e663	Work against racism — both in Norway and internationally — is one of the top priorities of the Government. We therefore fully support the UN World Conference on Racism and are currently actively participating in the preparations for the conference. However, the progress of the preparatory work, led by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, is delayed by some highly controversial issues. One of these is the question here raised, the question of compensation. So far, there is little evidence that agreement can be reached on this before the World Conference in Durban. Completely key questions, such as who is to be compensated for abuses committed up to several hundred years ago, who is to pay for this, and who is to decide what constitutes a reasonable compensation, are all unresolved. In the further preparations for the conference, Norway will do what we can to find a solution to the question of compensation. However, the most important thing must be to look ahead. Mary Robinson has strongly encouraged the participating countries to contribute to the future and action of the conference. We're fully sharing this vision. To agree on concrete and effective action against all forms of racism and discrimination must be our overall objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e676	From the foreign minister's answer, I cannot see that Norway intends to take any initiative in relation to the question I raised, namely the question of compensation. If it is that this can actually torpedo the conference, I believe that the Government and Norway have a responsibility, along with other Western countries, to take the initiative to try to solve this issue. And that's actually a good reason for it to travel. Norway has been among the countries that have compensated for the wrongs committed during the war, Jewish settlements. We have apologized to minorities and to indigenous people in Norway for our treatment of them. And it was just to be lacking if the international community were not to make an excuse also for the abuses that slavery and colonialism have meant to people in the Third World. What is important is that this issue is the subject of proper discussion at home and in relation to other countries with which we can cooperate, in order to find solutions now. I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What kind of solutions can Norway imagine that we can propose to solve this problem and this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e685	I had the opportunity to discuss this with representatives from third-world Jordan a few days ago, and I'm a little surprised that the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson goes beyond what they want to do. They have no desire to destroy this conference on this issue. Racism is actually something much more and more important than money, as they express it. So I'm going to choose to deal with representatives from the third world instead of helping here at home to draw attention away from what's the main question: how to combat racism, which can't in any way happen just by talking about compensation and money for what's been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e690	I can inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that all the regional conferences in the Third World have asked and demanded that this be resolved, i.e. the regions of Asia, Africa and Latin America. The fact that individual countries have expressed something else may be so their case, but there is no doubt that this is going to be a very strong demand. What they require is not necessarily a separate compensation scheme in the form of money and increased assistance, but a different way of compensating for the injustice committed. I would like to refer to the French Parliament which has just passed a law that describes slavery as a crime against humanity, and which wants to incorporate into the law a moral condemnation of slavery, where it is also said that studies and research on this subject will be given priority, as an instrument against forgetting. You also say that you want to introduce a special day, a day of memory, where a memory slavery. These are the types of arrangements that can also help to resolve the question of compensation in these negotiations. And, as I know, developing countries will also be open to that kind of proposal to solve the problem. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he will take initiatives in relation to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e695	Now the representative brought this question down to a different level than where she started. She began with money and now ended up with some principles by referring to what the French Parliament has raised. Then it's more manageable. What I pointed out was that the developing countries, of course, realize that at the Durban conference you can't solve these money issues, which were the starting point for Hilde Frafjord Johnson's questions. We're following very closely. I don't think you should be more Catholic than the pope himself in this question. You probably have to view this as a process in which everyone is now going in to try to solve the problem and put the main issue on the agenda: racism in our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e705	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘In August Norway participates in the World Conference on Racism, which takes place in Durban. The conference will address a wide range of issues related to racism, xenophobia and discrimination, and address them in commitment action plans. How will the Government contribute to ensuring that the conference delivers as much concrete results as possible, and in what way is the Government committed to Norway committing itself to follow-up to this conference?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e714	As I said in my previous reply, Mary Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, has, throughout the preparation process, strongly encouraged the countries to contribute to the world conference being forward-looking and action-oriented. This is something we fully support. It is proposed that the Conference should form part of a declaration and an action programme. It is particularly important that the action programme be given a form and content that can inspire and make the fight against racism even more effective. Last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs set up a working group with members of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Anti-racist Centres and the Centres against ethnic discrimination to prepare proposals for Norwegian positions and to record the preparatory work of the UN. This is in order to contribute to the outcome of the conference which is consistent with the intentions. It is, of course, difficult to give a specific opinion in advance on how Norway will follow up on the conference. However, the Government will work actively to ensure the success of the World Conference and to make as many clear and actionable recommendations as possible. The Government further intends that the recommendations of the World Conference, together with our own action plan against racism, should form the basis for an even more effective and targeted fight against racism, xenophobia and discrimination, not only in our own society but also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e727	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I have seen that the Minister for Foreign Affairs attaches great importance to combating racism, xenophobia and discrimination at an attitudeal level. I agree that it is important, but it is also important to look at the social structures that can contribute to discrimination. The immigration and refugee policies pursued in Norway and in most other Western countries result in serious discrimination between people from rich countries and people from poor countries. Through a very restrictive immigration policy towards non-Europeans, the authorities send, in my opinion, signals to the population that can reinforce xenophobia and racism. The restrictive immigration policy applies not only to people who are seeking permanent residence, but we also have visa rules in Norway that allow people from certain countries to be refused tourist visas, for example. to visit relatives in Norway. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that immigration policy in this way can discriminate and contribute to increased fear of alienation? Will the Government work to include a fairer asylum and immigration policy in the official document of the World Conference on Racism?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e736	I do not believe that the Durban World Conference will deal with the refugee and immigration policies of each country. I don't think anyone's up to it, then the purpose of the conference would go away completely. I'll be happy to discuss that issue, but I don't think we should make this issue a national debate as well. This is a major international issue and a major international leap forward against racism and discrimination, and I think that above all, we should try to deal with it instead of making it a national debate again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e741	I thank the Minister for the answer again. I think the government could have been somewhat more offensive in relation to this conference and had clearer objectives, and not least made it clearer to some of the issues to be addressed. This is a conference with a very wide theme, and there are many possibilities that one will not succeed in getting very concrete results. It is therefore important that countries with resources give priority to preparation, and that countries such as Norway also use the opportunities we have to play a bridge builder role in relation to the North-South conflicts that can easily arise, not least in relation to the theme that the previous questioner addressed. The Norwegian NGOs who have followed the preparations to date have no idea that Norway has taken on a driving role or has given priority to the World Conference against Racism – on the contrary. I hope it's because there's still some time left until the conference goes off. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs finally whether he and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will increase their efforts in relation to Norway's preparations for the conference. The Government will contact you, for example: the Nordic countries or the EU with a view to finding concrete proposals that can be adopted at the conference? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e750	The President reminds us of limitations in speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e753	There is no need to increase efforts, because we have a great deal of effort to do this. I do not know which NGOs the questioner is in contact with, but the fact is that we are playing a quite significant role in preparing for this. Once again, the question of what it is you want to achieve. I think the most important thing now is to work for a successful conference. And then we have to try to use tools and language after that, so that we can back up the work that Mary Robinson is doing. I could have chosen a different profile here at home, which might have satisfied some, but then it might not have supported it under the purpose, namely to get to a successful conference in Durban, to which I am going to go myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e763	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the context of a return case, it appears that the state health studies and the UDI clearly differ in the situation with regard to tuberculosis treatment in Kosovo. To the newspaper Forward, State Secretary Einar Gelius says: ‘From all sides, it has been reported that the treatment range for tuberculosis is good. The question of who is the State Health Survey has its information.’ Who is the UDI and the State Secretary have their information from?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e772	State Council Tore Tønne answered a question from the representative of Are Næss about the same matter in the Question Committee on Wednesday, 2 May. The Council of State indicated in its reply that, as Minister of Health, he is not responsible for assessing the assessments made by the UDI in individual cases, nor has he been given any role in medical aspects or other aspects of the proceedings. The UDI and the State Secretary have information on tuberculosis from UNMIK, the UN Administration of Kosovo. According to the guidelines we received from UNMIK in March 2000 on the medical treatment offer in Kosovo, tuberculosis is not on the list of diseases that cannot be treated in Kosovo. In meeting the UNMIK Ministry of Health during the state secretary’s visit to Kosovo, it was stressed that although the health situation is generally worse in Kosovo than elsewhere in Europe, there is a treatment offer for most common diseases, including tuberculosis. It was further informed that UNMIK’s guidelines on the medical treatment provision in Kosovo are still in force. In the case of the specific case, the representative Næss refers to the Kosovo Albanian three-year-old girl who has been treated for pulmonary tuberculosis in Norway, UDI has indicated that the child’s situation was central in assessing the residence permit for humanitarian reasons for the family. According to the information I received, the three-year-old’s treating physician informed the lawyer that there was currently no need for medical treatment, but that in the event of a relapse of the disease, medical treatment would be needed again. The fact that the child was no longer being treated for tuberculosis was the situation at the time of UDI’s handling of the case. The complaint is now pending in the UDI. New information will be generally considered. If it is confirmed that the condition is worse than previously assumed, UDI has today informed me that the application will be granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e790	I thank you for the answer, which surprised me somewhat. I have been informed that the UDI has not addressed the State Health Studies, which is the general Norwegian competent professional community in this matter. And as far as Kosovo is concerned, I have information from the Finnish doctor Hannu Vuori, who is head of the UN Department of Health in Kosovo, and Dr Vuori warns against repatriation. So does the Director of the Tuberculosis Programme in the New York Ministry of Health, who also has contacts and experience in this. These professional bodies warn against repatriation on the grounds that the treatment of tuberculosis in Kosovo does not meet modern requirements for such treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e795	In particular, I have nothing to add but the fact that the UDI has complied with the recommendations given to them by the UN Administration in Kosovo, UNMIK. There is information that was also confirmed when State Secretary Einar Gelius and several from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs visited very recently, that there was also treatment for tuberculosis. But in the case of the specific case, I repeat that it is now under review in the UDI. And, as I said, if there are now new things that confirm that the situation in relation to the specific case and this girl is worse than what was foreseen when the case was dealt with, then UDI has informed me that the application will be granted, so that she will then receive a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e802	That would make me happy. However, it does not change the fact that, in this case, UDI has not contacted the Norwegian professional community competent in this matter, and has relied on UNMIK opinions, which, in my opinion, contradict the fax I have, which says that the treatment method is old-fashioned, and that the follow-up of patients is unsatisfactory in x-ray studies, and not in other studies. It therefore describes a state that is unsatisfactory in Kosovo. And especially considering a three-year-old girl, I find it disturbing that in this case, UDI does not rely on the Norwegian professional competence that warns against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e807	It is difficult for me to comment on the fax to which the representative Næss refers when I do not know what it is. But there is no doubt about it, and I have always said that in Kosovo, treatment provision is much worse than, for example, in many areas. in Norway. However, in the case of return cases to Kosovo, as in many other places, we are dealing with the UN High Commissioner and the recommendations that come from there. And from the UN Administration in Kosovo, the UDI has been informed that there is also treatment provision in relation to tuberculosis. But, as I say, UDI is now going through the matter again, and if it turns out that the situation for this girl is worse than if the case was dealt with, then the matter will be resolved. In that case, the application will be granted, and the girl will be granted a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e815	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘7. In May 2001, the UDI decided that Kurdish asylum seekers would be refused temporary residence in Norway. This decision was taken four days before a delegation of Norwegian humanitarian organisations had returned from Northern Iraq. The Norwegian authorities were well acquainted with the visit. The aim, especially for the NOAS, was to get a better picture of the security situation of Kurds in Northern Iraq. Should these assessments not also be justified when such decisions were taken, and why could it not be expected that the delegation was back?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e824	The fact that the Refugee Council and the NOAS make a trip to Northern Iraq is not essential for the outcome of the directorate’s decision in principle on how to deal with applications for renewal from temporary Iraqis, nor the time when such a decision is to be taken. I expect the organizations to send their reports to the directorate after the trip, so that their views can be taken into account in the evaluation of the individual applications UDI now has to deal with. The UDI had a fully sound basis for making its fundamental decision on Iraq matters. The background for this is as follows: Under the government of Bondevik, with which the representative of Svarstad Haugland is of course well known, more specifically on 29 February 2000, the Ministry of Justice decided that Iraqi asylum seekers should be granted temporary authorisation without any need for protection without the right to family reunification. Changes to this practice did not result in changes for Iraqis in need of protection. These could still be granted asylum or regular residence permits on a humanitarian basis. In 2000, such permits were granted to 1 360 Iraqis. That same year, a temporary residence permit was granted to more than 2000 Iraqis. These permits are now running out. The UDI has explained to the Ministry its decision that asylum seekers from Northern Iraq who, after an individual assessment, do not need protection shall be refused an application for a further residence permit in Norway. The Ministry took note of UDI’s decision. UDI's decision is based on a wide range of sources and extensive work on Iraq issues over several years. UDI has made delegation trips to Iraq, including Northern Iraq, and to the rest of the region. In addition, the foreign authorities have had extensive contact with other European countries, with UNHCR in Geneva and with international and non-governmental organisations present in Iraq. Since 1998, the UNHCR has assessed the conditions in which, as a general rule, the situation is safe and the organisation has carried out a return project for Northern Iraq refugees in Iran. In a meeting in Geneva in February, the UNHCR underlined that this assessment is still valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e837	I thank the Council of State for your answer. As a former central government council, I am very well aware of the commitments that led to the reception of asylum seekers from Northern Iraq. On 26 April, NOAS addressed a written request to the Norwegian authorities, by Secretary of State Einar Gelius, that one should postpone the decision on the handling of these matters pending the reporting by NOAS after return. A meeting was also requested after your return. It has not happened. NOAS has not been given a meeting with the Ministry - NOAS has, after all, been mandated to represent the interests of asylum seekers. As far as I know, UDI hasn't been in northern Iraq in a year and a half. A reference to UNHCR's recommendations, but – after I have been informed – even if the situation remains unstable and unresponsive, one cannot fail to send someone back. [[President clubs]] These are the words UNHCR uses
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e846	Council of State Brustad!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e849	If I can put the question together,
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e854	Then it's the Brustad Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e857	Firstly, the NOAS and the Refugee Council will have a meeting with the UDI, which is directly directed towards this matter. So this is going to cancel out. I would like to stress that after the information I have received, both the NOAS and the Refugee Council have travelled to Northern Iraq on their own initiative – and not on behalf of either us or the UDI. That's that side of the case. The decision taken by the UDI has been based on a long and thorough assessment in different ways. I also feel the need to say that once the UDI has made the decision they have, it is because they fear the abuse of the entire asylum institution. I would like to stress that it must be essential that we ensure that those who have the right to a residence permit in Norway receive it, but we must also ensure that those who do not need protection return. There has been a background for UDI’s assessment in this case. An individual assessment of each case will, of course, be made, but for the group as a whole, the UDI has assessed it so that no protection is required. It is based on the fact that there has been quite a movement between Northern Iraq and Norway in relation to some of those who have been allowed to stay here temporarily in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e866	The president hopes that the representative, Valgerd Reply City Haugland, will be able to formulate a 1-minute question within the time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e869	When UNHCR says there are certain things that cannot be excluded that someone can be sent back again, there are 2,019 asylum seekers quite a few. There is one that has now decided to send back. Hilde Frafjord Johnson asked a question to the Council of State on March 7th, and the time the Council of State answered – twice even – that she would consider whether there was anything she could or should have done in relation to this matter when the UDI had said it. I think it's funny that you can't wait a few days to get a recording from those who've been there lately. Anyone who has commissioned NOAS and the others who have travelled there is fundamentally immaterial, but they have the latest facts in the situation. It should also be important for the Council of State that the decisions taken by one are taken on the best possible basis. I would like to ask: can the Council of State think of intervening in relation to the UDI – as she said in her reply on 7 March that she had access to – when it applies to these decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e880	No, I don't intend to do that, simply because I feel that the UDI has had a safe and thorough basis for its decisions, which I take note of. UDI says in the press release they sent out on the day this was published: ‘During the last year, the UDI has received new information that Iraqis residing in Norway have a significant travel activity in and out of Iraq. This confirms that voluntary repatriation is fully possible, even if the possibility of forced return remains blocked.» The UDI stressed very strongly that this is clearly an attempt to prevent the misuse of the institution of asylum, i.e.: undermine the need for protection. One will deal with each individual application individually. – And I do not intend to intervene with UDI in relation to the decision they have made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e895	‘More than 3 months have now passed from Finnmark County Council to several directives from the State Health Authority on the improvement of the ambulance service. These requirements have still not been met, despite the fact that the State Health Authority has described life and health as being at risk. Will the Council of State intervene with the Finnish State Municipality to ensure that the service is sound?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e902	I have explained in my previous letter to Mr Ballo that it is the county municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that the population is provided with ambulance services that are organised and operated properly. In this respect, I have stated that I expect the Finnish County Authority to comply with the requirements of professional health care in the ambulance service resulting from the directive of the Health Authority of 26 January this year. I consider the follow-up to this as a relationship between the county and the Health Authority. However, I can assure you that I am closely following developments, including: by regular dialogue both with the Health Authority and the Finnish State Municipality. It is true that not all health care directives have yet been complied with. However, progress has been made in the right direction, and considerable work is being done in the county to meet the requirements of the Health Authority for staffing, competence, equipment and accompanying services. Since there is a positive development in the matter, I still see no reason to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e909	As the Council of State points out, on 26 January a number of directives were issued by the State Health Authority, following the notification of a directive in December. It is natural to ask on a purely principle basis: does the Council not see the need for some kind of sanctioning option when it is felt that the State Health Authority can make recommendations that are at least not followed up in the short term? What can happen quickly is that trust in the State Health Authority and the obligations imposed by the State Health Authority are undermined if there is no possibility of sanctions in government teams or in other ways as a consequence of that kind of imposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e916	I fully understand the problem that Mr Ballo is dealing with here. But now there is also the possibility of sanctions and further measures when injunctions are not followed up. It is a matter that the Health Authority has assessed continuously in the present case. However, the Health Authority’s assessment is that as long as Finnmark County is working to comply with the requirements imposed, the Health Authority considers that it is not appropriate to go to further reaction forms, and rather contributes to the fulfilment of the mandatory requirements as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e921	Another aspect of the case that has now been pending in Finnmark for about six months is that new contracts have been awarded by tender for the ambulance service in the different municipalities. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether he sees weaknesses in tendering procedures related to the type of services we are talking about here, where you have a partly well-functioning service – you have built up skills, you have stable staff, you have training for approval of them – and then you have to run bidding rounds where people are in practice out of work when new contractors are assigned, and where you have to start from the beginning again to build it up in many ways. In short, does the Council of State see that it may be inappropriate to use tenders for this type of service?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e926	Tenders for this type of service have been used with different experience in a number of counties so far. I would not generally say that there are schemes that are not suitable. As I said, it is both good and bad experience. I think there is more to it than a question of how the tendering procedures are dealt with in individual cases, than a more general or general question. In this very specific case, the Ministry has also been asked to carry out a check on the decisions leading to the award of contracts in the County of Finnmark. It will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e936	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Sickness centres have an important care function for districts where the distance to hospital is long. This is also the background to Finnmark’s being given earmarked funds by the state to ensure hospitalisation. What will the Council of State do to ensure the operation of the existing hospitals, and could it be appropriate to extend the hospital facility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e945	I agree with the representative Arnesen that hospitals can have an important emergency function in municipalities with a long distance from the nearest hospital. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health budget for 2001 therefore proposed earmarking 6 million. kr in order to ensure the continued operation of the hospital facilities in Finnmark. As mentioned in the same proposition, the Ministry investigates the possibility of including the hospitals providing specialist health services, which are part of the county government's regular offer of specialist health services, in the ISF scheme. However, the amount and quality of data collected from hospitals are lower than expected in order to assess that question. It is therefore early to recommend whether hospitals can be included in the ISF. It may prove that the ISF is not a suitable funding solution for hospitals. If hospitals cannot be included in the ordinary financing solutions from 2002, I will ensure that today's earmarked funds for hospitals are continued until next year. Different professional environments have indicated the need for a service offer at the intersection of primary health services and specialist health services. Hospitals may act as such a link. As mentioned in the long-term programme, the Government will evaluate the hospital function more closely. Several tasks currently carried out in hospitals may be usefully carried out closer to the patient’s place of residence if circumstances so permit. This could also help to ease the pressure on the hospital sector and thus provide more and better health services for the money. If this turns out to be realistic, I think it should definitely be appropriate to extend the hospital service. In this connection, I would also like to mention that the Department has recently approved a satellite dialysis pilot project at Sel Sickeheim in Oppland County. The experiment is carried out in cooperation between the local health service and the specialist health service. This experiment also facilitates the provision of patients with a better treatment provision due to shorter travel distances. This is a test that is also relevant to the problem of increased use of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I guess I can reinforce what the Council of State says, saying that the Health Service is one of the most important people in demand. In this way, health services also affect the settlement in our country. And in areas with great distances to hospitals, the hospital's existence and quality can actually mean life or death for people. As the Council of State pointed out, hospitals also have a significant impact on the effectiveness of hospitals, by both limiting the number of admissions and getting a faster discharge. At Sonjatun in Nordreisa in Troms, they have developed a good hospital concept that I think the Council of State should look at. It may be useful to continue to bet on the scheme that Sonjatun has, among other things. with birthplaces? What will the Council of State do with that side of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e961	Firstly, I would like to say that a possible extension of the use of hospitals in general should not, of course, be limited to the counties where we have such things today, as in Finnmark and also in Buskerud, and that the type of arrangements referred to for Sonjatun are certainly an example of both hospital and nursery services that may be relevant. Then I would like to add that this with hospitals and offers at the intersection of primary health services and specialist health services is carried out as a maximum current solution also in central strokes, in cities where there is a problem, not least for medical departments, that elderly patients are printed out without an adequate offer in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e968	I'm very happy to hear the Council of State's position on this with hospitals. But I want to say that in this particular phase, there is very great uncertainty in which there are hospitals, about the future of the hospital, so I have to ask for a quick clarification, so that you do not have this uncertainty about the health care you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e973	As I was in my first answer, it is also reported in the long-term programme that this is a matter for the assessment of the Government. It would be natural for us, at least as far as the immediate problems in this area are concerned, to come back to it in the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e981	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘After very long and costly planning of the RIT 2000, the Council of State considers that uncertainty about costs, location and main solutions is so great that a new land option needs to be explored. An investigation to become 100 pst. the locational security shall be ensured during this year and within a cost of 10 million. krones. Future placement of parts of universities and higher education institutions shall be included. Are there examples of decisions that affect so many people being investigated within such a narrow framework?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e990	I'm a little uncertain about how literally I'm going to interpret the representative Lund's question, but if I'm going to answer exactly and directly – and you should, well – it has to be a yes. Without mentioning individual cases, I certainly believe that there are examples of decisions affecting as many as RIT 2000 being investigated within more stringent frameworks than is the case here. Now I think I think the introduction to the representative Lund's question is such that I should make some additional comments. I have not stated – as Lund seems to suggest – that the uncertainty about the costs, location and main solutions of RIT 2000 is so great that a new site option needs to be explored. On the contrary, I have stated that the RIT 2000 has now been explored and designed for the first phase to provide satisfactory assurance that the project can be realised on the island and within proposed cost estimates and timescales. As a result, the RIT 2000 decision-making framework is satisfactory. On this basis, the Government has also proposed in the revised national budget that the Stortinge grant authorisation to start the development of Phase I of the project. However, before such an expansion is started, the Government wants to clarify whether it is likely that the expansion of a university hospital with the same functions as RIT 2000 can be realised at a lower cost and within the same time frame at Dragvoll. This is the clarification to be made within the framework to which the representative refers. Why he mentions 100 pst in this regard. security, I don't know, but at least that's not a prerequisite that I or the Government have laid down for the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1002	I thank you for your answer. I believe that this matter is a picture of the central authority that comes forward in relation to those who live locally. The Ministry of Health has been closely involved in planning under four governments. It has been authorised and authorised, and the location on the island has been specifically authorised. It hasn't been many months since the Council of State said it should be built on Øya. I believe it is unprofessional of the Government to act this way. It is no wonder that questions are asked whether you can have confidence in the Government regarding the further arrangement in this case, which includes and affects so many. It's 5,000 employees, it's the health service to Middle Norway we're talking about, it's a city in Trondheim. The plan of progress was for half of the medical centres to be completed in 2005. In 2010, everyone was supposed to be done. The question is as follows: Can you guarantee that this is the progress plan, or is it only the timeframe, that in 2015 you would have thought that the hospital neighborhood would be completely finished, you can guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1015	I certainly believe that this is not in any way an expression of a central power that is coming forward in relation to local decision-makers. In this respect, I recall that it is a project that will not be unlikely to rise to an expansion cost of DKK 10 billion, which will be substantially financed from public budgets, to a large extent from the state budget. In such a situation, before making a final and irreversible decision to launch the project, I do not believe that it is likely that within the same timeframe a more reasonable one can be realised with another location – which is also specifically indicated here – I can in any way express an unprofessional treatment on the part of the Government. Rather the opposite. I mean it would be unprofessional not to do that. Some time frame I can now not guarantee, except that I believe this should not lead to any significant delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1022	It was a bad guarantee. Just because the project is so big and important, the government has been involved all along. And the government has at an early stage had the opportunity to intervene, not least in relation to the location. Location and design have been selected based on the patient’s focus. One has chosen a solution with smaller and more transparent units – the help should come to the patient instead of the other. One has chosen empty on the basis that a wish for a step-by-step extension and proximity to NTNU, one has chosen empty on the basis that a person wants to participate in the environmentally friendly, modern urban planning to which the municipality of Trondheim has committed itself. One wants the city to be dense and grow inwards instead of growing outwards. The question to the Council of State is: is it possible for the Council of State to review these thorough value choices that have been carried out over such a long period of time, through a hectic spontaneous investigation in seven months?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1031	It is true that my department, myself and the Government have followed closely the cooperation – to put it that way – with the South-Trundellag county council in this matter. It is not that one has not had the opportunity to intervene earlier on this issue, but it is also a fact that there was agreement between the State and the South-Trundelage County last autumn not to open up a new assessment of the choice of land. On that basis, it was not relevant for me to intervene in this process at the time. The situation now is different, and that's why you've intervened. Guarantees on schedules I believe it is directly unprofessional to give at the stage we are now, in addition to what is contained in the proposal promoted by the Stortinget. It is not a question of over-testing the value basis to which it is referred; it is a matter of clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1042	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Culture, has been transferred to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research as the Council of State. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health on behalf of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1045	First, I want to draw attention to the changed overview of changes in today's Question Time. There are the words ‘correct him’ addressed to the ‘statutory Council’ in relation to the questions signed, which I am satisfied with, after having heard of it. I want to ask the Minister of Culture the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister of Health: «By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norway is obliged to introduce the right to compensation for public performance, but has been delayed for several years by the implementation of the necessary legislative and regulatory changes. The majority adopted new legislation in the Gramo area one year ago. Despite this, and despite critical progress, the Council of State has not yet implemented the legislation. Will the Council of State implement this as soon as possible, so that the practitioners and manufacturers are remunerated under the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1056	This is a matter in which Minister of Church, Education and Research Giske has been appointed as the Council of State because the Minister of Culture has declared himself involved in the matter. It is because of the absence of travel that I have been asked to answer the question on behalf of the Council of State Giske. When the laws of copyright law and the fund law were passed, Stortinget provided for cooperation between Gramo and Fond For Practising Artists on the collection of fees and fees. It is the consideration of the users who are to pay the fee that warrants it. In such a situation, it is considered important that the parties to cooperate, themselves, find good, practicable solutions. The Ministry of Culture has been concerned about this and has had several meetings with the parties on the matter. Unfortunately, the parties have not reached an agreement. In a letter dated 20 March Gramo announced that there was a breach between the parties. The Ministry of Culture met the parties on 22 March, and it became clear that there was no basis for agreement. I have been informed that the necessary steps will now be taken to ensure that the legislative changes can come into force, and that this can be done with effect from 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1067	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a matter of relatively long seagoing service. As early as 1995, Gramo contacted the Ministry of Culture to discuss the implementation of the remuneration right in Norway. The matter has then been dealt with, until it was adopted in the Grand Duchy in June 2000. Per. the current date has not been completed, despite further enquiries and despite the fact that the Minister of Culture promised the Stortinget an early approval of Gramo’s application in January 2001. The undersigned understands that the Minister of Health cannot go deep in this matter, but I have heard the Government's reply that this should be done with effect from 1 July this year. I hope that the Council of State will take into account that there are many – both politicians and not least practitioners and producers – who will notice this date as a promised Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1076	I have noticed the comments made by the representative Bredvold here, and I will of course bring them back with me to the relevant Council of State responsible for the processing. I would like to underline once again what I think is also clear to everyone, that this is a matter that should find its clarification in the near future. And I repeat that it should be possible to do so with effect from 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1081	I thank you once again for your answer, and take it as a guarantee that 1 July is the date.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1089	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘There is only one wine monopoly in the inner east fold, more specifically in Ashim. The A/S Vinmonopolet has been assigned by the Government to open 20 new wine monopolies. From a central point of view, there has been a call for attention to be paid to the districts, and various strong leaderships have been given. Will the Council of State also take certain steps to ensure that the inner Eastfold will be satisfied with a wine monopoly in, for example, the Mesen in the municipality of Eidsberg, in order to help mitigate the trade leakage to Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1098	It is true, as the representative Stang puts it, that they will benefit the districts up to 20 new wine monopoly sales that have now been allowed to establish. Should the people agree that starch, wine and spirits can only be sold by the Vinmonopolet, it is important that such sales are available throughout the country. We have also underlined the need to assess cost-effective sales for places with poor availability in relation to the A/S Vinmonopolet. It is because, in many places, the population base is too thin to ensure that the wine monopoly is economically sound to establish normal sales. I am aware that commercial leakage may pose a problem for some states, but I would like to point out that District Norway is large, so there are many considerations to consider when deciding where the new sales can best be placed. With regard to the concrete distribution of the 20 new sales, I would like to draw the attention of the representative Stang to the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is preparing a draft spatial distribution plan at the county level, sending the plan to consult municipalities and county municipalities. In this way, the Ministry gets an idea of the need for new sales in the districts and can take it into account when drawing up the final plan. However, the specific decision as to which municipalities are to be resold is entirely a matter between the A/S Vinmonopolet and the municipality. The process I have described here will be good enough to ensure that all relevant considerations come to the table, and it will proceed with the launch of a consultation proposal during June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1109	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to discuss the Vinmonopolet, but at least there were certain things in the Council's response that were positive. Nevertheless, I do not settle in the case of Eastfold, for in several previous allocations the borderline, which has the largest trade leak, has been treated in a vote. By this week at the latest, ten new sales of the state-owned and controlled company Vinmonopolet were granted, and thus Eastfold once again no. The size has well expressed a desire for greater accessibility in the districts, which, in my opinion, should lead to a place like the border area of Mysen that should be well located in the last round of allocation in 2002, where 20 new sales should be opened. The municipality of Eidsberg has unanimously asked to be awarded a wine monopoly sale, just so that's said. My question to the Council of State is: In this round, the Council of State will take care that the border area of Mysen is allocated to wine monopoly sales, as a small contribution to being able to tempt the Nordics to trade in Norway instead of in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1118	As I said in my answer, there are more reasons to take. The fact that I have specifically asked the Vinmonopoly to serve as the basis for the 20 new outlets is availability for people in the districts. If the Vinmonopolet finds that it is compatible with what the representative Stang is now asking for, namely the consideration of the border trade, then we will look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1123	It's positive so far. It's a development that I think is positive, and it's that people, including politicians, who the Council of State has given the impression, have become more liberal to act on alcoholic beverages and actually want more availability, and thereby obtain the 'water of life' in a controlled and more legal way than before. There is a strong desire for greater accessibility also in areas that have had a strict alcohol policy in the past, in particular pig-grown areas. It means a greater fight to get a wine monopoly sold, and it is not unnatural that the need for new wine monopoly sales is strong in areas bordering on Sweden. That is why I am pleased with the signals I have received from the Council of State. It surprises me that there are leaders who are not clear enough for the leak to Sweden and for the Nordics to contribute to the Swedish state fund. So what I want to ask the Council of State for now is that the Nordics should have greater opportunities to trade the goods in their own country and also in their own district.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1132	I fully agree with the representative, Stang, that it is important that sales are carried out in controlled ways. We know that the monopoly on wine is the one that has the best control over sales, and I think especially about age limits. I think there's a general consensus in the population that it's important that we keep the age limits. When it comes to the distribution of sales, I've already found it in my two answers. What is also important to me is that the municipalities themselves should make an independent assessment. I do not want to go in and assess their rigour or non-stiffness. It's a municipal responsibility to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1142	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In the process of Innst. S. No 66 for 1996-1997, on 16 December 1996, the Stortinget decided to forward to the Government a proposal from John I. Alvheim on the proper practice of the coordination law so that no one can lose sight of having earned points in popular protection. The proposal has never been followed up. Already in 1992 during the treatment of Innst. O. No 51 for 1991-1992 a legislative amendment was adopted to provide for the relaxation of coordination in certain cases. Neither has this been followed up. What will the Council of State do with these decisions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1151	This question has been dealt with in Stortinget several times, and I will briefly sum up part of the treatment. Service pensions in the general government sector are so-called gross pensions. Social security is always paid in full, while occupational retirement provision is reduced by coordination deductions. An important legislative change occurred in 1989. It was then decided to coordinate only with the supplementary pension earned by the member of the occupational pension scheme. This is important when the supplementary pension from popular security is fully or partly earned by a deceased spouse. The change led to a reduction in the co-ordination deduction for the supplementary pension than before, or a total loss for these pensioners. Those affected by the changes thus received a higher pension than before. Others got the same pension. However, the change in 1989 led to the fact that in some cases it may be beneficial for pensioners to have a low self-earned supplementary pension – a ‘negative effect’. It is not true that the question of facilitating coordination in this area has not been followed up. The case was submitted to Stortinget at the latest in Ot.prp. No 30 for 1998-99 by the Bondevik Government. Reference was made here to the thorough investigation carried out by the Kønstad Committee in NOU 1995:29. On this basis, regulatory regulation was abolished because it would be complicated and create new distortions. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 30 the legal framework to provide for the relaxation of coordination was abolished. Instead, a new legal provision was adopted for a certain relaxation for demarcated groups. These are those who receive an increased supplementary pension due to care after leaving their professional life. It also applies to those who earn an increased supplementary pension in the year they reach the age of 67 and later, after they have taken out an occupational pension. Int. O. No 59 for 1998-99, the majority of members of the family, cultural and administrative committees pointed out that any exceptional and special coordination rules would help to complicate the system. The majority also pointed out that an adjustment to counteract some biases can easily create new adverse outcomes. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Government in the long-term programme refers to the thorough investigation carried out by the Künstad Committee from 1995 and assumes that there are, in reality, no alternative reasonable and logical solutions within today's gross system. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the Government has recently set up a pension commission to review our overall pension scheme, including public occupational pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1168	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I interpret this answer, the Council of State here says that you don't want to do anything. It's obvious that it's too difficult to create new side effects, and that you don't want to do anything about it. ‘Negative effect’ is a phenomenon that arises for widowers who themselves have been employed in public activities and who have a pension from a public service pension scheme and who have been married to a person who has been employed in private activities. It is quite strange that the Council of State now says that you don't want to do anything about it, despite the fact that this is an effect that is very unfortunate to them. My question to the Council of State is: Can I really interpret the Council of State so that she does not intend to do anything about this matter, and that she therefore accepts that there should still be the kind of ‘negative effect’ that this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1181	The answer I gave seems quite clear to me how complex the pension system has gradually become. It's actually the way I wouldn't have been able to say all of this without having a manuscript. I think that shows quite clearly that we have a system that is so complicated that we need a wide review. And that's exactly what the government has now initiated. We have major investigations in place, which are completed, and now there is a parliamentary commission to go through the entire pension system and including – as I said – public occupational pensions. I'll think that all such questions will find their place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1186	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is nice that the Council of State at least admits that the pension scheme that the Workers' Party and a couple of other parties have built up over the year is so complex that the Council of State itself does not understand it. I thank you for the answer and the admission that the Council of State made there. And then once again you show this commission that is going to work on the matter. Is there one thing that has been shown here in this room, is that once a commission has been set up, it goes so long that something hardly happens so that the representatives who have promoted the matter and decide on it will see the result. I would ask that the Council of State at least look at this matter again. It has some so unfortunate effects on these pensioners that it is simply not for politicians to live with. We have to make sure that these widows are not hit because they have achieved their own supplementary pension of such a size that they get less pension. We can't accept this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1195	For me, it is very important that the pension scheme has broad support for the population. People's Security has it. But now that we find that the complexity of the arrangements is such that it is necessary to review them, I might think that the exchange of words here shows how important it is now with a politician commission. It's not an investigation we're going to have, but it's a political commission that's going to work towards good solutions to the pension schemes for everyone in Norway, and for which there can also be broad political outreach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1200	Then we go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1206	This question, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1209	My question then goes to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘There is a cross-political agreement that primary school should be free of charge. What, then, does the Council of State think that there is a one-off fee of NOK 2 000 on computer equipment supplied from the Auxiliary Centre to students in special situations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1218	I answer this question because the aid centres are under my responsibility. The cancellation took a one-off charge of NOK 2000 per person. users when lending standard data equipment in connection with the 2001 government budget. The background was that such computer equipment has become so common that it was time to assess it in line with ordinary household white and brown goods, such as refrigerators, stoves, television receivers, etc. In general, no social benefits are provided for aids which are usually also used by people with no disabilities. The fee is paid on initial loans or the replacement of standard computer equipment. Emergency centres lend high-standard and long-term computers, so that there will be relatively many years between each time a user has to pay this fee. Following the decision to increase, it has been found that the imposition of this one-off fee on pupils may be contrary to the Training Act. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has therefore contacted the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in order to clarify this. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research assumes that, to the extent that a benefit or a means is part of the fulfilment of the right to primary education, the means of assistance shall be free of charge for the student. Similarly, higher education and secondary education are specifically organised for adults. I am on this basis prepared to reconsider the matter and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1231	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware that this question has been raised in the Questionnaire earlier, and that it has also been answered to a written question to the Council of State. What surprises me is that the Minister of Church and Education does not see that this is an elementary school question and answers the question. That's what was my prerequisite to ask the question again. I take the answer from the state council ad notam, because as I understand it, it is clear in the answer that this is contrary to the training law § 2-1. When the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Church and Education are clear in their answers that this is contrary to the Training Act, I see no reason why the Government should make further assessments. So my question is whether the government can now exercise pressure on the Labour Party in Stortinget about whether this can also be resolved in revised form.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1240	As I said in my first answer, I will come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1245	I see this as a slightly narrow answer – so I take up again what I submitted in my previous question. When the Government is so clear in its replies that this is contrary to the Training Act, why should the Government take additional time to consider whether to make changes here? Another thing: Parents in this situation are only now aware of the situation, and that this has retroactive effect from 1 January 2001, so I can challenge the Council of State on that. When the Government is going to reconsider this, will it also be assessed by the Government whether those who have already paid a so-called one-off fee will be refunded that cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1254	Here I can answer with a clear yes – we will. I have said that we should come back to Stortinget in a suitable way and – I can add – quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1259	We go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1265	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the setting of the national transport plan, transport, both passenger and freight transport, from road to rail is mentioned several times as an objective. Currently, NSB Goods reduces its offer on many routes. This leads to a trend in the opposite direction of what governments want and large-scale numbers. What measures, if any change to the framework conditions, will the Ministry of Transport propose to prevent the reduction of goods by rail and to achieve the objective of increasing freight by rail?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1274	After processing in Stortinget, it is decided that NSB freight traffic should be operated commercially. This is a prerequisite that has been assessed several times, without changing it. This means that the company is not able to carry out transport operations with financial losses over longer periods, and the company must adapt the transport offer to that which produces positive results. At the same time, it is a clear objective to get more freight on the road. Traditional wagon load transport is one of the areas where NSB Freight is currently operating with loss. I am familiar with the fact that NSB Gods is therefore working to get this customer mass to switch to another type of transport, where NSB Gods can compete at price with the truck industry. The objective of the NSB Freight is that customers continue to choose rail transport. Sadly, however, such a process may cause some customers to change their mode of transport. However, conversion should be seen in the context of an increase in the volume of transport of NSB freight for the transport of containers, and it is therefore not clear that the conversion overall results in the movement of transport from road to road. As regards the framework conditions for the NSB goods, I would like to point out that the investment fee has been removed from 1 April 2002. It will in isolation strengthen the competitiveness of the NSB Goods against road transport. Otherwise, the Government of St. Meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, About the activities of NSA BA 2001-2003, submit to the NSB Board of Governors the proposal to separate NSB Goods as a separate share company, so that alliances can be established with foreign partners. However, it is the case that the NSB shall have the majority of its shares, in order to ensure that there is still a strong rail freight operator in Norway. NSB freight is well advanced in the case of container transport by rail. By allowing NSB Gods to conclude alliances with another freight operator, I believe that the parties will be able to take advantage of each other's advantage. The Communication refers to the fact that NSB goods will thus be better equipped to meet the competition of other large railway operators. However, this is also a measure that will strengthen the competitiveness of the NSB Goods against road transport. Finally, I believe that one through the more general measures, including new equity of 2135 million. kr, in the notice of ownership mentioned and recently submitted, has provided the new governing board with a framework which should allow for offensive action both in goods and in passenger transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1285	In the attitude of the Transport Committee on the Transport Plan, I believe this with the transfer of traffic from road to road is mentioned about. a twenty times, including in the main comments of the Workers' Party, where, inter alia. read: ‘It is therefore necessary to have more of the goods transported by road and sea.’ This is just wishful thinking, because you don't have the tools. It'll be a Peer Gynt's attitude: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it; – but do it! No, I don't understand that." I would like to ask a very specific question. It was mentioned that the investment fee was to disappear next year. Why do you delay changing a tax that is absurd? Truck industries have never had this charge, aviation does not. Why should this be postponed pending a reform, when this is the only mode of transport that has that kind of charge, and you want this mode of transport to be the winner?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1300	The issue of charging for goods, both investment taxes and road charges, has been under consideration for a long time. Thus, with regard to the investment fee, we find that if nine to ten months is gone, it is gone. It's the most significant thing here. I am absolutely sure that the NSB Goods will also be able to adapt to this, so that when you now know that this fee will be lost in nine or ten months, there will be a positive change in the framework conditions that will give results already now. Then I would like to point out again that separating goods into one's own company will put the good business in a new light. I think there is a need here to strengthen both management and organisation, among other things. to raise the level of precision. We have experience of this in ours, where we have pointed out what has been too bad, but also improvements. I believe clearly that we are here on the right track in relation to the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1307	Divorcing goods into an AS may not give more goods on the track, but it definitely gives less political direction. The Council of State mentioned the road tax in its previous reply. If it is removed, there is also one thing that can make the NSB more competitive. It was removed from combined transport a few years ago, and it is one of the areas where things are going well. On a part of what is carried on the railway, the road charge may be up to 5-6 pst. of the costs. If you want to do something about the framework conditions that will lead to achieving the objectives that we agree on, removing the road tax is one way to do it. What I expect from the Council of State is that he has concrete proposals for framework conditions. I don't expect him to instruct the NSB about which loads they're going to run, but he's changing the frame conditions so that it's profitable for them to win the most goods possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1316	We must, among other things: in the context of the work around EU directives in the field of rail transport, re-examine the road tax. Now there is reason to stress that the total road tax, grossly calculated, amounts to 60 million. kr per year. It is clear that it is involved in creating the cost picture of goods, and which we will therefore consider. But I think clearly that we are doing something about the general framework conditions here through a stronger focus on a separate company, by opening up the possibility of alliances, by strengthening NSB BA's equity and by not paying any investment tax. In this way, and also through the further development of the infrastructure there, inter alia. this with profile extensions is a central point, I believe that we are clearly facilitating the NSB to ensure a better future on the freight side, not least over long distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1324	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘NSB Goods has been notified to approx. 300 customers that their contracts for the transport of goods need to be changed significantly, to the detriment of both economic and transport technology. What can the Council of State do to ensure that the NSB Goods will continue to provide an appropriate freight transport to our business in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1333	As was referred to in my answer to questions from the representative Myrvoll, the NSB Gods should be operated on a commercial basis. Therefore, NSB goods cannot be operated with a deficit over a longer period of time without having a significant negative impact on the equity of the NSB group. Traditional wagon load is an area of operation which is currently operated under deficit. The price obtained from these transport operations does not cover the costs incurred by the company. Moreover, maintaining the current transport system will increase the need for reinvestment of the old and worn-out wagon material. This will help to further increase the operating deficit in a situation where it is not possible to increase the freight charges to wagon loading customers in the light of competition. The operation of NSB Freight has therefore to be modified for many of these services. I am familiar with the fact that the NSB Goods is busy to the maximum extent possible to keep as much as possible of their customers. The construction of a new customer portfolio is demanding. Therefore, what is now done is to seek to offer these customers an operating plan that both the customer and NSB Gods can live with. Otherwise I will refer to St. Report. No 48, on the activities of NSA BA 2001-2003, which provides for the separation of NSB Gods as a separate share company so that alliances can be concluded with foreign partners. As I said in my reply to the representative Myrvoll, the NSB Gods is far ahead in the case of container transport by rail. By joining alliances with another freight operator, I believe that the parties will be able to take advantage of each other's advantages within the different market segments in order to be able to offer efficient freight transport to our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1342	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that a business cannot be operated with loss. Collective transport solutions by train and boat have as their primary task to relieve our roads and improve the environment. In this connection, the NSB Goods has an important task – I thought, until I was informed that transport operations that are tailored with their own overcrowded sidings into the company are now cancelled. In concrete terms, this applies to Glava in Ashim and 300 other companies that have received similar circulars. So they're going to have an old deal that worked well. If they want to conclude new contracts, yes, they must not only buy container equipment and transport the goods from Askim to Oslo, but they also get 40 pst. aggravation of the previous agreement. This is outright unreasonable and pointless! What can the Council of State do about the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1351	I repeat that there has been a great deal of upsurge in Stortinget that NSB Gods should be operated on a commercial basis, and this is the basis of the company's business. With regard to the specific issue of Glava, I believe that the representative Holten understands that it is difficult for me to go deep into the single problem, but I assume and will be sure that NSB Gods will provide for its customers, as far as it can be expected, alternative transport solutions and help to get these transport solutions in turn in such a way that you can get an even more efficient transport for your customers, and in a more cost-effective way for the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1358	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State cannot go directly into one company, but this is an example of many companies that have sidings, where all transport is in a way tailor-made for the business. Businesses with this heavy type of transport job, and there are many who have a lot of mass in our state, thinking in the paper industry, are good contributors, and they also agree to keep the economy of the company. But if all of these now get gradually changed framework conditions that are of such a nature that they move the transport over to the car, the income, even though it becomes an AS, will, after all, disappear from NSB Gods. It is unlucky environmental and not least traffic on the roads. And that's where it's important for us to get clear signals that the Council of State can grab hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1365	Of course, I fully share Holten's views on problem description, and that is exactly why it is important – and I want to make sure – that NSB Gods ensures that they engage in dialogue with the customers concerned in order to get good transport on the road in the future. It's served both the customers and the carrier, because after all, we're also talking about getting the most secure and efficient transport in general in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1373	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Søren Fredrik Voie.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1376	I will address the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In January 2001, the Government decided to lift the self-imposed export ban on wave whales, a position taken by the Stortingen during the examination of Document No. 8:79 for 1999-2000. The council gave a clear promise that DNA records and license regulations would be in place within a few weeks. A new catch season is now under way, and the export permit has not yet been put in place. Will the Council of State now ensure that the export authorisation is put in place and that the decision of the Storting is implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1385	Let me start by saying that I'm just as concerned that the whale sport should be able to start up, like the nutritionists. However, there are some important assumptions that must be in place before exports can take place. Regulation on the regulation of exports of wafers is not consulted, with a deadline of 8 June. After receipt of the hearing opinions, the Regulation will be adopted as soon as possible. All applicants for the Ministry of Fisheries will be registered as exporters. Under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Animals and Plants, CITES, registered exporter is required to obtain CITES export authorisation from the Directorate for Nature Management, which is the Norwegian CITES authority. In order to import wavy whales, the country of destination must have reserved itself in relation to the total ban on dealing with wavy whales, as has been done by Norway. Only Japan, Iceland and Peru have done this. Under the CITES Convention, the importing country must issue an import licence. In practice, only Japan is the per capita. today is the current market. The main element that must be present for export to be started is an operational DNA register for animals from the Norwegian wave whale catch. The register will be used to monitor trade and the aim is to distinguish Norwegian products from possible trade in whale products from other sources. It is very important to establish international trust in our control of the products of wavy whales to be exported. The DNA register is under construction. Control samples are currently being analysed in the United Kingdom. The preliminary technical results on the extraction of DNA material are promising. After testing has been completed, an expert group here in Norway has to compare the results of the control tests with the original one. If everything goes according to plan and nothing happens unexpectedly, we will have a complete set of analytical results from the 1997–99 years clearly during June 2001. However, it is not possible to temporalise when the DNA registry will be operational. From the Norwegian side, the authorities of the country of destination are required to confirm to us that a system is in place to take samples for the DNA testing of the imported product. We have been in contact with the Japanese authorities on the matter, and we know that they are as concerned as we are that the trade in wave whales is well regulated. In conclusion, I would like to say that at no time have I imagined that we would be able to obtain export permits in place for this year's whaling. Until that's the case too complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1402	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it is the case that anyone who is going to do a business and also makes money on what is going on depends on predictable framework conditions, and preferably also stable framework conditions. With the lifting of the self-imposed ban on the export of whale products on which the Stortinget was involved in January, the Stortinget and the Government have in a good way opened up even better opportunities to make money in the whaling, and that the whaling can develop in a good way. The Council of State now says that a relatively short time has passed, from January to May, that the consultation deadline is 8 June for new regulations, and then the regulations should be made as soon as practicable. My supplementary question will therefore be: When can a complete regulatory framework be in place to provide the industry with the necessary framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1411	As I said in my main response, we expect a complete set of rules – if nothing else were to happen – to be in place during June. But I have to make it clear that it also requires the recipient country to do the job they are going to do. I have discussed this in person with the Japanese Minister for Fisheries, who has indicated that they have the same interest as we have in getting this going. When I last met him, they figured they'd still spend a few months in Japan to make sure they were able to carry out the checks on the whale meat in such a way that we don't get international reactions. What is important is to proceed quickly, to ensure stable framework conditions, but we must in no way risk having a setback on this important matter because home play is not done well enough. That's why we're taking the time that's needed to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1418	I perceived the Government's intention to bring this into port as a good signal to the industry and the nutritionists. I would just like to end by thanking you for your answer, and encourage the Council of State to put all kinds of pressure behind it to get it brought to port, both on the Norwegian side and in contact with the Japanese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1425	So we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1431	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy. The question will be raised by Mr Falch.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1436	I have the following questions for the Minister for Oil and Energy and understand that will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Oil Directorate has authorised seismic investigation EBS00 by TGS-Nopec in the period 15 April to 15 years. October 2001 in the North Sea. Major sandeel and whale fisheries are operated during this period and in this area. Seismic activity will scare both fish and whales. Reduced catches and economic losses will be significant. Will the Council of State ensure that fishermen are heard and the activity stopped until the complaint has been dealt with, and what measures will be taken to ensure that fishermen are heard in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1445	Complaints about seismic investigations, EBS00, have been treated in the Oil Directorate. I can inform you that the Directorate of Oil has complained about the cancellation so that they did not plan to start the investigations until 1 July 2001. One assumes that complaints will be dealt with within that time. In the case of the safeguarding of important fishing interests in future concession awards, a meeting of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection is held before each concession round. There will also be meetings with the Norwegian Fisheries Team. The purpose of the meeting is to determine the range that can be illuminated for petroleum activity. The meeting ensures that all interested parties are able to make their views known. In the light of what appears in the meeting, and after careful consideration of the possible effects of the operation, you will find up to the blocks that can enter the various rounds. Restrictions have also been established in the oil industry to try to limit possible conflicts between the two industries. In the case of future concessions, I would like to see the fisheries sector at the centre of the assessment process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1452	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But there are some scary things in this case – and it is normal that the fishing industry is not really taken seriously when it comes to such things. The oil director lives his own life. That's one thing. But the second is that you do not use the precautionary principle. When the effects are not known and not enough studies have been carried out, there is at least experience from fishermen who say that seismic activity in a fishing area is very harmful and devastating. Can the Council of State assess whether there may be a replacement for speech in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1461	The way in which the Norwegian authorities and the oil authorities take this seriously is clearly shown in the case currently under consideration. There is a complaint, it has a suspensive effect, and the activity has not started. It will not be possible to respond specifically to whether someone is entitled to compensation as the case now stands. This is due to a number of factors, including: This is because there is no evidence that damage exists, but it will then be among the issues that need to be assessed before finalising a position on the handling of the complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1468	I think it seems relatively reassuring what the Council of State is now saying. But there has been a complaint from the Southern Radiation Industry, which would like to have investigations and which have tried to push on to get investigations done on this issue, but the oil companies are countering this relationship. How has the Council of State intended to deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1475	There is no secret and no news either that there are from time to time conflicts of interest between the oil business and the fishing industry. The country's attempt to do so is to make a good and professional assessment and a balance of these interests. And I think we should be able to say that with the extensive fishing activity and with the extensive oil business we have in Norway, this has been done in a way that has been practically painless. I think we have good principles for dialogue, good ways to solve difficult issues, which ensures that the situation will also be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1483	This question, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1486	I ask this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘After the daily press, NSB Gods will bring down all rail freight traffic in Westfold, Telemark, much of Buskerud, East-Agder and Rogaland. Traffic shall pass on the road. It will increase emissions of greenhouse gases. Is this happening, in line with official Norwegian climate policy, and my Council of State is in line with the principle that environmental policy should be integrated into all sectors of society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1495	I'm asking for an understanding that it's now a little bit difficult to renew on this topic. I would like to point out again that this is not about closure, but that there is a restructuring within NSB Gods within the traditional wagon loading business. I refer to my answers to the two previous questions, from the representatives Myrvoll and Holten. As indicated in the replies, NSB Gods must be operated commercially, inter alia. in competition with the truck industry. As far as climate policy is concerned, rail transport is subject to a road charging scheme, in which, in addition to the costs of operating and maintaining the network, the environmental costs incurred by these transport operations are appreciated by society in terms of environmental and accident costs. In order to ensure that rail transport has as much as possible a level playing field with road transport, and because of the fact that the road side does not pay its costs in full, the road charge for the use of railway infrastructure has been set so that NSB Gods pays an equal proportion of its costs as competitive truck transport. A problem in achieving the best possible level of non-discrimination between the two transport sectors has been that the truck industry has some tax advantages in relation to the railway sector. The decision to abolish the investment levy in general as of 1 April 2002 will make this more balanced. In this way, there is therefore reason to say that the Norwegian overall climate policy is reasonably well taken care of in relation to the railway sector. However, where it appears that NSB goods cannot compete with the road side of the traditional wagon loading operation, this is the condition that the company must adapt. However, it is not correct to make the image as unambiguously negative. While the company can now face losses from former customers, it is worth noting that in recent years NSB Gods has increased its market shares in new and emerging industries. This is particularly the case in the fresh product market. This is a growing industry with increasing transport needs and where NSB Freight is strong. It is therefore not appropriate to present it as if the development is in a clear negative direction for rail freight. On the other hand, there are clear positive signs that NSB Gods is making good claims in competition, including: in the case of the combined market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1506	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Of course, it is important to note that the daily press reported that NSB will transfer large quantities of goods from road to road, seemingly completely contrary to official Norwegian climate policy. Now the state council has to a certain extent suppressed the impression that there's a conflict going on here. Nevertheless, it is clear that in this context, as in other cases, the NSB is in a cross-point between business and environmental policy considerations. That's why I'm going to come up with an additional question that I'm asking on a principle basis: Will the State that owns the NSB syta for environmental considerations to override the status of such assessments in view of the need to follow up Norwegian climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1517	I would first like to point out that in the national transport plan we have analysed the advantages of the different modes of transport. And it is not surprising that rail transport has a strong advantage. It can be summed up in two keywords: ‘heavy’ and ‘long’. It's only when you have distances up to 250 kilometers, and maybe as much as 500 kilometers, that you really have the advantage. It is also obvious that if one can manage to take a good part that the long transports where we have developed infrastructure will also affect the emissions side, because, after all, a fully loaded freight train Trondheim–Oslo constitutes several trailers. It is quite clear that environmental considerations are an extremely important single element in these assessments, and that is why, among other things, we are betting. on the infrastructure side in order to be able to transport more long distances on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1524	I would like to remind you that the central government decided that environmental policy objectives should be overarching in energy policy. Would it not be reasonable that this principle was also used as a basis for Norwegian transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1529	I would like to remind you that when our government presented the National Transport Plan last September, it was marked by three objectives, safety, accessibility and the environment, as the cornerstones of this. And when we go into rail transport, we find all of these three elements at the same time as guiding what we're going to do. But I repeat: we also have to see the division of labour in such a way that if we can win a lot of what is 'long' and 'heavy' over on rail transport, it is probably an appropriate division of labour and the best thing we can do on the environment in the relationship between rail transport and truck industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1537	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘The batch has for two years given promises that food prices will be reduced by 15-20 pst. Meat prices are still rising, and this will continue, inter alia, because Norwegian Meat has announced significant price increases. Many consumers expect the promises of lower food prices to be met. What measures will the Council of State take, and when can we count on lower prices for consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1546	The working party has never promised to reduce food prices by 15-20 pst. That the representative Hedstrøm has perceived it this way must be due to a misunderstanding. However, I assume that the statement that the price difference between neighbouring countries should be reduced is linked to the EU Agenda 2000, which has a price reduction target of 15-20 p.p., and that when prices are to be reduced, a corresponding or higher price reduction in Norway must be implemented, if the EU succeeds, in order to achieve the objective of reducing price differences. I have previously black representative Hedstrøm on questions about meat prices here in the Questionnaire, and I have shown that among the measures we can use to contribute to favourable price development are the development of commodity prices, not least the VAT reform of 1 July, effective competition in the market and documentation and information on price formation at different stages of the food chain. The measures against jealousy and against the spread of foot-and-mouth disease increase production costs in all countries. Last Thursday was St. Prp. No 52 on measures against cow disease dealt with here in Stortinget. The Government and Stortinget concluded that the financing of the costs necessary to ensure safe food should be distributed between industry, consumers and the State budget. In this context, I would like to stress that if we look at price developments in Sweden, which is a key point for us to measure, everything suggests that in Sweden, as a result of the measures taken to combat bullying, and as a result of foot-and-mouth disease, there has been a higher price rise in meat than we have in Norway. In Sweden, this third has not been the case. Thus, the industry and the state have not been involved in taking costs – there are consumers who have largely borne the full cost increase. So what has happened lately is that yes, there has been a certain price increase in Norway as a result of foot-and-mouth disease and jealousy, but actually a larger price increase in Sweden. So, there's a lot of evidence that on important products, we've had a decrease in the price difference lately between Norway and Sweden. Then we will have the VAT reform, which means half of VAT on food, and which is the most important single measure in the Norwegian food sector in the last decades. It has an estimated tax reduction of DKK 6.5 billion, and we have a clear expectation that the reduction in food fees will benefit consumers. We will pay great attention to documenting what is happening in the pre- and post-implementation period of the reform. Several R & D institutions are now working on evidence of the development of the food chain as part of the price monitoring project launched by the Ministry. I want to use this actively to keep the search light on the food sector ahead. In addition, the Government will launch an information campaign on VAT reform in order to increase knowledge and awareness of the reduction of VAT on food, and help consumers to demand that the tax reduction actually implemented benefits them. The price reduction for consumers should be about 10 pst. Of course, I do not regulate the prices at the shops, but I am going to use the tools I have available to help that happen. In summary, my answer is that I believe quite clearly that if you see the years 2000 and 2001 as a whole, over the course of the two years, we have come across a number of important products in the situation that we have strengthened our competitiveness in relation to Sweden. In the spontaneous questioning session here today, I particularly pointed to one product, pig chops, where very much now indicates that it is little to profit from travelling to Sweden and shopping. And there won't be anything to profit from when the VAT reform is implemented from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1570	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is possible that there may be misunderstandings and goes as far as the opinions of the Council of State and the Workers' Party on lower food prices are concerned. I have at least said something from the media, but we know that there may be misunderstandings – all of us have probably been misinterpreted in the media. According to the media, the Council of State must have said on 16 June 1999 – then as an agro-political spokesman – that the food must be between 15 and 20 p.m. cheaper. He also said in November 1999 that the EU should reduce food prices by 15-20 pst through Agenda 2000. within five years, and the gap shall not increase. And he said in March 2000 that food is going to be cheaper from summer on. I'm very busy and engaged in these things. That the Swedes have now had some problems, I think is a passing phenomenon, because the Swedes are professional. There they have a completely different debate about food prices, and are in a completely different world. What they're concerned about is that food prices are 20 pst. higher than the average in Europe. And consumers in Norway, also in Eastfold, do not notice that price differences have decreased between Sweden and Norway — so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1579	That Hedstrom has an involvement in relation to this question, I am aware of. So do I. And my point is not to distance myself from the statements that Hedstrom brings with me, I fully agree with them. But what has happened in retrospect is that Europe has experienced a number of food scandals that make my colleagues around Europe now sit and discuss Agenda 2000. And they say, what are the problems with foot-and-mouth disease going to lead to in relation to Agenda 2000? And several of them then say that it is clear that it is strengthening the production pressure by pressing the commodity prices 15-20 pst. appear to be a little bit of a current policy. This does not mean that the challenges for Norwegian agriculture disappear, but they become more affordable. So I'd like to end up just encouraging Hedstrom to check the prices a little bit closer in Sweden, for his statements that it's so wonderfully much cheaper, I can probably put a lot of evidence that actually isn't the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1586	If we look at Swedish agriculture, they have incredibly clean food, where Norway also scores the highest in the class – ‘highly differently’ – of the EU Scientific Committee. But as a good two, Sweden and some other countries come, so the east fold is not afraid to eat Swedish meat. And you're not afraid of mechanical agriculture in Sweden either, so that competitive edge will lie there. I want to get a little bit into VG's food exchange. If it's right, it reveals a price increase of 36 pst. from January 2000 to February 2001. So even though we're getting a halve of the food tax, which means a decrease of 9 pst. If you take it fully at lower food prices, you will have to succeed with quite a number of other tools to actually take in the price difference we have for Sweden and other countries. I hope, therefore, that the Council of State now with the measures announced will follow closely, go in with the arctic eyes here, so that we see that we really get price reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1595	I cannot take advantage of the figures referred to in relation to Norwegian Meat. I don't have enough insight into that. But what is my starting point is that when we now measure some price differences – and it is quite important that we do this properly – we see that on important border trade products, for example. beef chops and farce products are highly comparable in Norwegian prices. If Hedstrom wants to visit me in my office, I can provide quite a lot of documentation on that. The focus that Hedstrom has contributed to price differences has been important. I'm not saying that there is now an end to price differences, but on some important products we're actually in the process of success. We get to the VAT reform – and that is our plan – we are actually cheaper than Sweden on some products. We must try to get that out for people both in Eastfold and elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1603	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘An importer has so far fought for one year to obtain the possibility of importing organic baby food into Norway [[NRC, Consumer Inspectors 9 May]] Is this in line with Government policy for a more user-oriented general government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1612	The specific matter that is being asked concerns the import of organic baby food from Denmark. In this context, the Ministry of Agriculture has been in contact with the State Agriculture Administration, which manages the customs protection of agricultural products. The State's agricultural management reports that they have not received any information from the importer concerned concerning the import of the organic baby food. Organic baby foods may initially be imported without a customs duty application established under the WTO Agreement. If there is doubt as to the tariff treatment of the product, the case shall be brought before the Customs Office for decision. The customs authorities received on 23 February 2001 an application from the importer for the tariff treatment of the product in question. The replies of the customs authorities to the importer were sent on 20 April 2001. Normal processing time is about one month. In this case it took a little longer, i.e. a little less than two months, because the product had to be sent to the tol laboratory for further studies. For a product such as organic baby food, lower rates of duty may in some cases be set than the WTO-bound rate of duty. The free trade agreement with the EU and the Norwegian import legislation opens up such a reduced rate of duty. As mentioned above, some of the applications have not been received by the State Agricultural Administration. The State's agricultural administration states that the normal duration of proceedings for applications for reduced rates of duty is five to seven days. The State's agricultural administration has also concluded a cooperation agreement with the Customs and Tax Directorate in order to improve the overall service to business and other audiences. In the light of the above, I have to say that I do not fully understand the problem, in the sense that we believe that we have not received an application, which is probably the question that we have made. But that's an important thing. Organic baby food is an exciting product, and I would recommend that the importer contact the State Agriculture Administration to clarify the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1627	I thank you for your answer. I will interpret it very positively, so that the Minister of Agriculture's call is taken seriously. Thus, at the moment of the application to the State Agriculture Administration, the time of the proceedings will be a maximum of one week or seven days. That's satisfactory, and we'll take note of that. But I want to draw attention to the obvious need there is for something better service to applicants who may not be used to going to the government. This applicant in question has obviously had its relationship with Customs. Here I record that there has been a cooperation agreement between the Customs and Tax Directorate, under which the Customs Authority sortes, and the State Agriculture Administration to ensure better coordination. It is also important for applicants to be able to contact them for the first time — and so contact has gone beyond the letter’s point of view that contacts were established as early as last year — to be provided with guidance on the fastest possible way of resolving applications, i.e. a consumer-oriented administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1634	I want to say that in principle I agree with what Foss is saying now. It has occurred to me in my work on the answer as a result of the Foss question that it will be important for us from the Ministry of Agriculture in connection with this cooperation agreement to raise the question of whether the advice that people receive on the first occasion is good enough. It's a pretty complicated system to approach – I don't think you should try to hide at all. It is important that we constantly tighten up, so that the contact person, the customer, will get the best possible service. I'll follow it up. I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1643	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘There have been several signals that the price of electricity may rise to the triple in a short time. This will lead to a dramatic extra load, especially for those with low paying ability. On the basis of the fact that this is an important consumer issue, the Council of State will result in different pricing arrangements for, for example: necessary consumption flow and more luxury consumption?’» [[tariff]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1652	I would like to make it clear at the outset that this issue primarily affects the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy, and that the answer is naturally designed in cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The electricity prices charged to households can be divided into three parts: a power price, a network rental price and taxes to the country through VAT and the electricity charge. It is only through the last part that authorities directly affect the price of electricity to consumers. The question of whether the electricity charge should be differentiated has been assessed on several occasions in recent years. The Energy Communication, presented by the Bondevik Government, showed that the administrative costs of a progressive electricity charge would be disproportionate compared to the distribution gain that could be achieved. It was also pointed out that the electricity charge is a poor tool in the distribution policy. In the establishment of the State Budget for 2000, the majority of the Financial Committee asked the Government to submit assessments and proposals for a two-priced electricity system. In the context of the increase in the electricity charge, it was also requested to investigate examples that could improve the distribution effect. The suspension of the Financial Committee was followed up by an inter-ministerial working group which prepared a report assessing a progressive electricity charge. The report concluded that a differentiated electricity charge should not be imposed. The conclusion was presented in the 2001 State budget. Firstly, the working group stressed that the allocation policy could be pursued more effectively in other ways. It would be more appropriate to pursue distribution policies through more general and targeted instruments such as income taxation and the transmission system. Secondly, the report’s objections to a progressive electricity charge were of a more administrative nature. It was considered very difficult to design a progressive electricity charge that can be administered within the current system. The demarcation problems in relation to who is to be covered by the criteria for applying the progressive electricity charge will also be extensive. The government joined these assessments. There is no special sign that power prices will rise dramatically over a short period of time. However, in order to avoid unnecessary increases in electricity prices due to shortages in power supply, the Government considers it important that framework conditions in the power market ensure that new power generation can be built. In this context, I refer to the flood notification of the hydropower and the power balance, as the Government presented earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1669	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess it was a little defensive. I am aware that it may be difficult to differentiate and make too much progressiveness in connection with the charging of electricity. But it is also true that the authorities, if they want to, can find out about price systems and provide guidance for a two-price system or other price devices, so that ordinary household flows and normal consumption flows can be sold at one price, and that a different price can be given for more luxury consumption. I think the answer contained a little bit of this. In addition, I also have a comment on the web rental, which has increased dramatically recently, and that the state also has certain hands on the steering wheel in relation to the network rental price.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1678	I would like to say that I share the idea behind the question of the representative. But we have to take a total assessment of what we get from profit by introducing such a scheme. As I explained in my answer, it is that after the assessments made – including by the government of Bondevik in its time – it would be of little use to add up to such a scheme. I would also like to remind you that the prices of electricity to the producer in recent years have been very low. Although we know that we as consumers have had increased electricity billing lately, we still have low electricity prices for households in Norway compared to other countries. But there's no doubt that it's a huge dilemma that we have too little self-produced power here in the country. That means that we also get a completely different pressure in the market if we can't build up new power. Then I would like to remind you that if we had been able to build smaller, pollution-free gas power plants, we would have gotten cheaper electricity. In this way, we could also have reduced imports from polluting coal-fired power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1687	I think we're going to take the gas power plant debate at another time and on another arena. My main purpose here is to address the concerns of many people with low paying ability in terms of strong growth in power prices. I think that's a concern that not only concerns them at the very lowest income levels, but common families of children actually also look with concern at this growth. I agree that the actual power price may not be so high, but the network rental and the final sum of these bills are now very high. There's been a strong growth, and it's signaled an even stronger growth. I would recommend to the government that we look into this, so that we can get back tariff systems that allow normal consumption in a household and normal consumption power to have one price, and then we get another price for what I want to call luxury consumption – I don't want to specify it any more, but we all know that it goes in different directions. There might also be a different ability to pay for those who are now using so much power that we have had a power loss. That's the problem with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1696	Once again, I just want to refer to what I said in my answer. But there is no doubt that some individuals have problems with paying their expenses to electricity today, and then it will be important that we pursue distribution policies through better and more targeted instruments, such as: the income tax and, of course, the opportunities we have to provide help to our most difficult through our social assistance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1704	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘According to an OECD report, kindergartens in Norway have a low proportion of pedagogues. Large enough staffing and competent pre-school teachers are essential for the quality of kindergartens and for the ability of kindergartens to fulfil the task as an important part of the lifelong learning cycle. There will be a need for more pre-school teachers in the future, while pre-school teachers will have problems with recruitment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that kindergartens receive adequate pre-school teacher coverage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1713	The representative, Ågot Valle, refers to an OECD report that points out that kindergartens in Norway have a relatively low number of pedagogues, and asks what I can do to get a good enough preschool teacher coverage. It is true, as the OECD report points out, that, compared with both Sweden and Denmark, Norway has a much lower pedagogical density in kindergartens. The OECD report also shows that the kindergarten sector has the largest public sector turnarounds. The government's child care effort for 2002–2005 could increase the need for new pre-school teachers. This gives rise to concerns about the quality and number of preschool teachers in kindergartens. Together with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, the Municipal Councils of Central and Norwegian Teachers, our department is working on a number of measures to address this problem. We work together, among other things: with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research on a major recruitment campaign for the teaching profession prior to the deadline for admission to higher education in 2002. Together with partners, we have organised a nationwide conference to establish cooperation on recruitment between local actors in the kindergarten sector. In order to achieve a full pre-school coverage by 2005, we need to think anew, and we also need to think untraditionally. Real competence confers the right to study in pre-school teacher training. That means we can address new groups with experience from work in kindergarten. This year, this has meant a significant increase in the number of applicants for pre-school teacher training. It's hard at the moment to say anything about how many of these will have their real competence approved, or how many of these will be per. Today works in the kindergarten. We hope, of course, that this is a step on the way to reducing the number of exemptions. The 3 000 persons employed for the derogation may be current candidates. In the autumn, together with the Municipal Councils, we will monitor this group in order to tailor a training offer that can give them formal pre-school or trade union skills. In order to maintain more pre-school teachers in kindergarten, we have entered into a partnership with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research on an online scale of 10 weights of continuing education in educational development adapted to kindergartens. In addition to purely recruitment and stabilisation measures, the Ministry has launched a three-year quality effort for the development of quality in the kindergarten sector that can assist and prevent the departure of pre-school teachers from kindergarten. Finally, let me say that the number of employees on the exemptions in kindergarten is not due to the fact that there are too few pre-school teachers. If all pre-school teachers were at work in kindergartens, the need would be met. Of course, the reasons why preschool teachers opt out of kindergarten are many and complex. I mention professional development opportunities, employment and not least pay. I hope that the total effort and cooperation I have mentioned will lead us not to worry about the pedagogical density of the Norwegian nursery. I would like to stress that the Government is following developments closely, and that we will come back with measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1732	I thank you for a full answer. There were many exciting measures here, but I think we're going to stick to what the government finally said, that the causes are complex, and that they may not have anything to do with pay. Pre-school teachers are the most women-dominated working group in the municipal sector and the lowest average wage among the higher education groups. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if she wants to go in for an equal pay pot that will make it possible to raise the salary of pre-school teachers so that they get what they deserve. Then I have one more challenge. The Council of State is Minister for Gender Equality, and she says that she is concerned that gender continues to determine pay. Governors in kindergartens are the lowest-paid group in the municipality, and it is horrific when you know that they are responsible for the learning environment and well-being in the future. Fafo says it has something to do with value discrimination. Then I would like to ask: when the Department plans a three-year work evaluation project, will the Council of State give priority to pre-school teachers and the kindergarten sector as part of this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1741	First, I must stress that we, state councils and representatives of our National Assembly, cannot go into wage negotiations. I ask for understanding that I can't give any more leads at that point in relation to what the representative asks about, an equal pay pot. But I want to say that the government has presented a very radical proposal for changes to the equality law that has a provision on equal pay. If a pediatric director takes advantage of the opportunity to try his case for the Equality Ombudsman, a female manager may actually receive an increased salary, compared to that of a manager in e.g. technical service. But it'll be up to the individual employee to try it on his own. What we have put forward is a proposal that a person can compare wages across tariffs, which I think can mean quite a bit in terms of the long-term wage development of these workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1748	My question was whether the Council of State will go in so that pre-school teachers and the kindergarten sector will be given priority in the three-year project. In terms of pay, I think the Government is quite passive in many ways in relation to women's dominated professions, because that's how the Council of State can do something active here. It has, among other things, State Council Gist of the case. So to another point that also has something to do with whether people stay in their professions or not. Here, preschool teachers say that increasing staff and smaller groups of children are important for whether they become or not. And we know that the size of the groups in the future will have a lot to say, among other things. Because we have many troubled children, children who need space, and children who need to be seen. Now we see that several municipalities are pushing the regulations to get more kids into the kindergartens. I have challenged the Council of State on this earlier: Will she now look at the regulations, see if we have regulations that make high enough staffing possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1757	I want to say that the Workers' Party has repeatedly said that getting to a good kindergarten sector is not just about quantity, but just as much about quality. We are busy doing this and have spent money on quality bets over three years, precisely because we are going to make it attractive for employees to work in kindergarten and stimulate more people to start working in kindergarten. We also see the need for more competence for kindergarten employees after they have been there for some years, and we want to stimulate further education in a completely different way from what we have done today. I want to say that we are following this situation carefully. Of course, we're concerned that what we're doing now in relation to babysitting in the next few years is not going to cause us too much pressure on the employees, which in turn will mean that we get a lower quality of everyday life to our very least.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1764	Questions 19 and 20 have been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1770	This question, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1773	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Church, Education and Research that I understand is answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘IN NOW 2001:6 ‘Growth with a price tag?’, several measures against commercialisation and buying pressure against children are proposed. In addition to parental responsibilities, the role of the school in this respect is underlined. How will the Council of States follow up any of these measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1782	NOU 2001:6 ‘Growth with a price tag?’ was presented in February. Questions related to commercialisation and purchasing pressure on children and young people were raised here. First, I want to say that the government takes the increased commercial pressure on children and young people very seriously. We have seen over a long time that the boundaries are being moved, and that children and young people have now become a group that the advertising industry sees as a separate consumer group against which they target their marketing measures. Today we have a ban in the ether media on advertising aimed at children. We don't have such a ban in relation to the printed media, but we see that the boundaries have also been moved there. The closest example is Donald Duck, a magazine that every week is filled with advertising and gimmicks directed at the children. Schools and kindergartens also know that we have become an arena in relation to commercial pressure: food boxes with advertising, school journals with advertising, and in addition we know that there are voices that want to open up advertising in the school books themselves. In general, I would like to say that the purchasing pressure against children is too strong, and that the school must be an advertisement-free zone as far as possible. One place is for children and young people to be at peace with the wave of commercialization that is now flooding all of us. This is the main principle I would like to use when assessing the more concrete follow-up measures in school related to the proposals in NOU 2001:6 ‘Growth with a price tag?’ With regard to the concrete proposals launched in the NOU, I don't think it's right to comment on these now. The case was sent to the hearing by the deadline of 5 June, and it is BFD – the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs – which is the coordinating department. What I can promise, however, is that the government will take seriously the task of following up this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1793	I thank you for the answer, and am happy to hear that this will be followed up. I am aware that the matter is being discussed, but I would nevertheless like to raise the debate, because it is important to look at exactly what is being pressed into school in this area. We know that parents have the primary responsibility to teach their children how to deal with the commercial pressure, but the school has an important key role, among other things. by being declared a zone of freedom in respect of commercial influences in the everyday life of children. The school is the responsibility of the public authorities and therefore the primary school should be free of charge. Yesterday we did not get an answer to Bondevik's question to the Prime Minister about the Government will be involved in upgrading the school, as the Christian People's Party wants. There is increasing pressure to let commercial operators get away with advertising when one feels that the money does not stretch to. Will the Ministry follow up on declaring the school as a zone of clearance, including: by law prohibiting advertising in textbooks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1800	First, I want to say that I very much appreciate the commitment of the representative Skarbøvik. I think that on this very point the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party can agree. We'll follow these things carefully, but we have to relate to a process that's in progress. I think it would be right for us to be able to evaluate the various recordings that the consultation round gives us, so that we can also, on the basis of it, make the best possible proposal to the Stortinget before the Stortinget makes its final decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1807	I thank you for your answer, and I agree that processes are in progress. Among other things, a process in the matter of value debate is already in progress, and I would like to challenge the Council of State for exactly this. I can refer to Denmark, to which this NOU also refers, which has an about-value-in-reality debate, and Sweden similarly: «The basis of value – from word to action» from the Ministry of Education. We know that there are many reports in Norway that have something to do with this, among other things. in the context of the Value Commission and the Education Office of Rogaland. There are many things here that I would like the Department to take up and challenge the launch of an organized value debate in all school classes where students, teachers and parents are included. This is what the Christian People's Party wants. Can the department be involved in initiating this in a good way, so that we can raise a value debate in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1812	Now it is true that those who have followed closely the political discussion in this field, probably believe that both the Minister of Church, Education and Research and the undersigned have tried to be active in that debate. It's great that we get new documents on the table, but I actually think that this is going to be the seventh and last thing to do, is that as politicians we dare to make decisions and stand up to ourselves with our clear positions on what the school will contain in the future. Then, of course, we should also look at and build on the experience gained in other countries. But I want to say that the important thing now is not that we make new reports and investigations – we may have enough knowledge – but it's that we have to start making decisions and venture to get into this properly. I believe that a new value committee in charge of the school will not be right, and I guess the Teachers' Association has also rejected it very clearly, but that as politicians we have to go in and make decisions that we believe are right for the Norwegian school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1829	This question has been withdrawn. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1845	This interpellation was delivered already in February last year, but never came up because of the government change. When it is proposed in the revised national budget to restore the embassy in Havana, I thought it would be interesting to debate our relationship with Cuba. I want to start by refreshing my memory with the dramatic Cuba debate, which was about Norwegian sales of weapons and ammunition that reached Havana on 17 January 1959. The citizens promoted a motion of censure, which fell by 79 votes to 71. The background was that the government had granted the export licence to a country that was in civil war, which was well known at the time. Other countries had refused arms sales. The sale contract was concluded with the dictator Batista in December 1958. The goods arrived so late that the rebel leader Fidel Castro got them. But in this way Norway tried to provide military support to a dictatorship state. According to the then Prime Minister, Gerhardsen, the government had put too much emphasis on employment and took self-criticism. In the big debate, the dreaded Batista's terrorist and torture acts and political murders are referred to in thousands. According to the report in Stortingstidende, the current representative of the depositor Per Borten said the following: "The government of Batista had come to power by coup. About the regime, the New York Times" correspondent in Havana writes, among other things, that there is widespread torture and killing that is considered the main reason why the people have so bitterly turned against General Batista» And on the other hand, ‘There is hardly a Cuban who has no relative or relative who was killed by Batista’;» In retrospect, we know that about 70,000 Cubans were killed by Batista. Back then, the Cubans were slaves in their own country. Havana was dominated by brothels and gambling casinos for American mafia, often referred to as the world's largest whorehouse. The regime was corrupt. Some were very poor, lived in the most distressed – others made themselves rich, very rich. National pride and Cuban culture were invaded. The bad memories of this time are deep in the Cuban people. I'm not going to dwell on history anymore, but I've taken it with me to remind you of one side of our political heritage in our relationship with Cuba, and because I think it's an important dimension when we now discuss our Cuba policy 40 years later. History is also important for understanding Cuba today. Before the revolution, the island was ruled by American interests. The United States introduced in 1961 as known a total trade block towards Cuba after the Castro regime was established and properties were nationalized. In this way, Cuba became partners with the Soviet Union and COMECON, and the conflict peaked with invasion attempts and the Cuba crisis. Much would have been different in Cuba without the American blockade. We'll never know that story. It's time we put the cold war behind us, as we've done with other countries. We also need to put the political prejudices behind us, discover Cuba as it is today, and help Cuba participate in the world community. The Cuban society is in a break-up period and is about to rise economically and socially, despite the commercial bloc. In many ways, Norway and Cuba have a community of values — in terms of social rights, education for all, a good health service for all and equality. The health center in Cuba may be the world's best, and kindergartens are free, as is much more of the public welfare offer. All these goods have been built and kept under the blockade and the collapse of the trading partners. After the fall of the wall and the resolution of COMECON, Cuba lost 85 pst. of its foreign trade approximately overnight. It's dramatic for a small country. I think there is respect for this, and I have a clear impression that Cuba's social dimension does not stand back for the Norwegian, despite the fact that it is a very poor country with great problems. We have been able to see, as in VG recently, Yngve Högsensen and Celebritys in old Buicker in exotic surroundings. The pictures also tell of a country that has barely been able to import a spare part into either cars, tractors or buses, or has had petrol to drive with. Unfortunately, they have not been able to import pacemakers because they all have American parts. Life-saving medicines have been covered by the boycott. The lack of housing is great, and modern production equipment is defective as so much as because of the blockade, which also means that ships and aircraft from other countries have been refused access to American ports if they have been in Cuban port in the last six months. The situation has been dramatic on the small island, which is totally dependent on trade. The blockade has hit hard and brutally. The 1996 Helms-Burton Act resulted in an additional ‘iron grip’ and threatens to penalise third country enterprises dealing with Cuba. Despite this, there is a lot of exciting and forward-looking business in Cuba. They have an advanced biotechnology industry, which includes, among other things: is developing vaccines against cholera and AIDS. In the 1980s, they developed anti-encephalitis vaccines, which are currently being exported to many countries. Cancer research is also far-reaching. Cuba has opened up foreign investment in joint ventures. Hundreds of companies are established. The number of tourists is now up to two million. Gross domestic product is increasing every year, and the small increase in Cuban wealth today benefits everyone. They've shared poverty for a long time, and now they can share the good. There's a lot of myths about Cuba. Fortunately, the recognition of the actual situation is in the process of breaking through. Many were probably surprised when the World Bank recently acknowledged that Cuba is better off in the social field than most other developing countries. Life expectancy is higher than in any other Latin American country, except Costa Rica, child mortality is much lower, and illiteracy is virtually eradicated. 'A fabulous job' said the President of the World Bank when he spoke of Cuba's commitment to education and health. And that has happened without a single penny in the help of neither the World Bank nor the Money Fund, which Cuba is not in. Even the U.S. Secretary of State Powell had to come in a recent hearing in the House of Representatives and admit that Castro had done a lot of good things for his people. The questioner would have explained why the United States was dealing with China, Vietnam and North Korea, but not with Cuba. Many people in Latin America and other developing countries look up to Cuba, because there's not a single child growing up on garbage dumps. There's no street kid in Havana streets. There's not one child who can't go to school, and not one child who doesn't get food, clean water, and good health care. So there's a great contrast between how many Latin Americans and people in the developing world look at Cuba, and how our part of the world does it. Human rights are indisputable, but respect and practice always have a bearing on the foreign policy situation and stage of development in a country. The Americans have not yet left the military base in the south. The fact that the Miami Mafia is going to reclaim Havana is, for most people, the worst thing that can happen. This would mean that the difficult time has been completely in vain. You don't have to be a communist or a salsarus to find out. I am convinced that progress will go in a more democratic direction also in Cuba. Despite vigorous US efforts through the blockade and massive propaganda, Cuba's trade, cooperation and contact with other countries is increasing. I am pleased that Norway is one of these countries, and that we are now getting a Cuba policy in place. And it's high time the embassy reopened. The Pope has been there. Young Högsen has been there. It also has the Social Committee, the Steensnæs and the Grand President. I think it is now time that our foreign minister also visited the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1908	I'm open to visit Cuba if that's possible for practical reasons. I also say that because Norway, in line with a large number of other countries, has strengthened cooperation and contact with Cuba. Coherence and contact between countries and peoples, even in cases where there are strong political and other differences, is in line with what has been a Norwegian foreign policy line. We believe in dialogue, not isolation. At the same time, we recognise that some countries are pursuing a different policy towards Cuba. We'll take note of that. The bilateral relationship between Norway and Cuba has been an interesting development in recent years, with increased political contact. It must be said, however, that even if the connections are good, they are still limited. In particular, economic relations are small. The more happy it is that several Norwegian organisations have engaged in cooperation with different sectors of Cuban society. Let me particularly point to LO's cooperation with Cuban trade union movement and Norwegian People's Aid projects. I believe that the key to our future cooperation with Cuba is just in the widest possible social contact between our two countries. Regardless of the social system on which a country is built, this is crucial knowledge in order to be able to cope with a globalised world economy. Cuba should be given the opportunity to participate fully in the world community. This is also the background for Norway, like the vast majority of Member States, to withdraw every year from the embargo on Cuba at the UN General Assembly. Trade with Cuba in 1999 amounted to less than 10 million. kr. The government likes to see financial relations with Cuba increase, and is committed to helping to optimise business cooperation. The initiative to increase business exposure must come primarily from the business community itself and take into account the framework conditions that apply. Norwegian enterprises showing an interest in Cuba, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, are highly dependent on predictability. Therefore, it is important that Cuba also facilitate their presence. In order to contribute to a better framework for business cooperation, we have also started work on drawing up proposals for an investment protection agreement between Norway and Cuba. Furthermore, it is under consideration to include Cuba in the list of countries covered by the scheme of aid for the marketing of products from developing countries and the guarantee scheme to reduce the risk to importers of direct imports from developing countries. The government will help to strengthen the knowledge of the Cubans about sectors in which Norwegian business has top-notch competence. Cuba is engaged in the extraction of petroleum on the cap and has a potential in the fisheries sector. In the energy and environmental sectors, Norway has already helped to identify the potential for producing environmentally friendly energy from biomass. There are interesting opportunities here that can make Cuba a partner for other Latin American countries. After political contact was restored in 1996, there have been a number of political visits both ways. I myself have met the Cuban Minister of Foreign Affairs at UN meetings, and there are mutual invitations on bilateral foreign minister visits. State Secretary Johansen visited Cuba last November, and during the last year we had two visits from the Cuban Minister of State to Norway. These visits have given rise to a broad exchange of views on the further development of the relationship between Cuba and Norway. It's the government's goal to strengthen and expand links with Cuba. In order to do this, it is well known that it has decided to reopen the embassy in Cuba. This will happen in the next month. This means that Norway will have its own local representation in the country for the first time in several decades. Through permanent presence in Cuba, we will be better able to follow up the different elements of the dialogue that we have built up with Cuba in the last couple and three years. It is still the case that Cuba has come much further in the implementation of social, economic and cultural rights than political and civil rights. On the other hand, ideological unification is a problem such as: results in persecution of, and human rights violations against, oppositionals. From 1998 onwards, Norway has been able to enter into a constructive dialogue with Cuba on human rights issues. Two seminars focused on the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. The parties involved at the time considered that the seminars were a good starting point for further dialogue and cooperation, and new seminars were being planned. However, this dialogue was suspended on the Cuban side after the 56th session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in the spring of 2000 due to Cuban dissatisfaction with Norway and other European countries on various issues dealt with by the Commission. However, we believe that it should be possible to conduct a constructive bilateral dialogue independently of voting in international organisations, and we are ready to continue this dialogue. The same applies to dialogue between journalists from Norway and Cuba. We will continue to be prepared to support this when stakeholders consider it appropriate to move forward with it. At all events, freedom of expression and the press is a valuable basis for developing contacts. Traditionally, Cuba seeks to explain most of Cuba's problems with the American blockade to the country. It includes not only economic conditions but also limited freedom of expression and violations of human rights. There are currently very few countries that find American policy in this area meaningful or justifiable. Norway voted, as in the past, also at the 55th UN General Assembly last autumn for the resolution to lift the United States blockade of Cuba. Cuba has been one of the most advanced countries in Latin America in terms of health care for many years. Possible cooperation in this area in third countries has been one of the elements discussed in our contacts with the Cuban authorities, and a dialogue is now underway to seek to concreteise cooperation in this area. In general, Norway also wants closer dialogue with Cuba on regional issues. This concerns in particular issues relating to the development of the peace process in Colombia, where we are both a member of the country friends' group, and so far have had good cooperation in the processes under way in Colombia. Finally, as mentioned above, we value the many contacts that exist between institutions and people in Norway and Cuba, not least in the field of culture. Tourism also contributes to increased knowledge and interest in the country. Now that we have an embassy in Havana, it will be able to assist in the development and strengthening of such contacts, in addition to official relations, and thus contribute to further broadening the links between our two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1944	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It was very good and a positive approach to the question I had asked. I hope what was mentioned by opportunities, and the attitude that the ministry has is made known in different environments, business environments, public, non-profit institutions and research environments. I think it is very good that the foreign minister said she was willing to visit Cuba. I hope you find space for that in another tight and tight program. Cuba is in many ways the great defeat of the United States in Latin America, and that leads me to the treatment of human rights in Geneva. The role of the United States is detailed in an article in the Newspaper today by Grethe Haldorsen, who knows well about the situation in Cuba. It's about how the United States buys and presses poor countries to vote the way the United States wants to. My question is, is this really how it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1953	I do not know that there is any such purchase of votes. There is an open vote at the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Of course, here, as in all other questions, is a strong degree of influence being driven. But it's not the United States alone, and it's a process that we know in all democratic assemblies. But as I said, our attitude has been clear. We haven't supported the American embargo, and although there are a lot of positive things about social and economic rights, you can't close your eyes to the violations of other human rights in Cuba, and we have a dialogue with them all the time. It has been the Norwegian attitude, and then we have to vote in line with it when the issues come up in the Human Rights Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1958	Just a short follow-up from the Workers' Party. Norwegian foreign policy has always had the main principle of having the widest possible contact area. It's just based on us believing in dialogue. That is why Norway has also developed bilateral relations with Cuba and is now setting up, as I said, an embassy. I do not know if the President remembers it, but former Minister of Culture Turid Birkeland also visited Cuba in his time, and that was an important step in this regard. Further contact and cooperation are desirable. It is the broad social contact that is important. That is why I would also like to stress the fact that every time a large number of people are involved in the people's cooperation in relation to Cuba, where a number of non-governmental organisations are engaged by the Norwegian side. This applies not least to LO and a number of trade unions. Dialogue and contact are key in promoting human rights and, as we heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, prominent human rights experts have been engaged in a broad dialogue with Cuban experts and Cuban authorities since 1998. There are still violations of human rights in Cuba, among others. has now been tightened up again the ban on homophilis. But Cuba is facing a change, and in that process we must also play a role. It is necessary for Cuba's social and economic development to integrate them into the world community. Therefore, Norway has always distanced itself from the United States' Cuba embargo, including in referendums at the UN General Assembly, not later than the 55th before Christmas. I have just returned from the UN and EU Conference on the Least Developed Countries, which now count almost 50 countries, among others. Cuba. Measures taken from the south included market access for MUL products in the context of a total development strategy, including aid, trade, debt relief and investment. An important part of the driving rules of the international trade regime must be compensation schemes for the poorest countries, aid for training and transfer of competences. That must also apply to Cuba. In addition, Norway has now contributed to a recently established trade assistance trust fund. Norway is also 6.7 million. US dollar to a UNDP fund to promote a better governance in the MUL countries, a prerequisite for a positive development process, which was also underlined at the conference. In all our meetings and contacts with G-77 countries and MUL countries, Cuba is an important player and partner. It is also of interest for Norway to have a closer dialogue with Cuba on issues related to development, conflict resolution and human rights in the rest of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1979	Cuba's main problem is an economic and political system that prevents it from making effective use of human and material resources. It is also a system of political impotence, oppression and material scarcity. But, of course, in addition to the fact that the system itself is preventing development, the US blockade is very damaging to the people of Cuba. It must be said to be a major historical mistake that the United States did not choose to normalize the relationship with Cuba after the fall of the Soviet regime, but instead chose to escalate the commercial bloc. From the Norwegian side, we have to do what we can to help the United States realize that contact and trade with Cuba is the way to go, not isolation. SV agrees with the inter-pellant that Norway must actively contribute to the transition in Cuba. We therefore see it as a good sign that Norway will reopen the embassy in Havana. Political contacts, cultural exchanges and trade are the main contributions to the promotion of democratic and economic development in this country. This interpellation debate also gives an opportunity to comment on this that the interpellant, according to the media, together with SV's Hallgeir H. Langeland has nominated Fidel Castro for the Nobel Peace Prize. SV has made it clear that SV as a party does not support this proposal – on the contrary. But we are a liberal party and tolerate the fact that people in the party have different opinions. It is striking that neither the said Peace Prize Nomination nor the Interpellation Text mentions the human rights situation in Cuba. The proposers have argued that there is the fight against poverty that is the basis for the Peace Prize Nomination, but this justification reflects, in my view, a view that a poor person must choose between well-being and freedom. This ranking of human rights takes SV away from. It must be made quite clear that both Cubans and other poor people have the same social, cultural and political human rights as everyone else, and we cannot see through the fingertips of violations of freedom of expression or freedom of organisation because a country has good medical coverage or has achieved some other results in the social field. The proposers have stressed that they have not only nominated Fidel Castro, but the Cuban people. I would assume that a good share of the Cuban people would stand up to share a peace prize with Fidel Castro. In particular, I believe it is the dissidents, journalists, political oppositionists and human rights activists mentioned by Amnesty International in their annual report for the year 2000. The organisation reports that these are seriously assaulted and that about 300 people are imprisoned for political reasons. The Castro Communist Party is still the only legal party in Cuba. Cuba practises the death penalty, and in 1999 13 were executed. Now it has happened before that people with a bad scroll in terms of human rights have won the peace prize, but SV does not want to encourage such awards. To conclude, the SV’s position is that Norwegian cooperation with Cuba is positive and will be of mutual benefit. At the same time, Norway must take every opportunity to remind Cuban leaders that we expect political reforms in terms of freedom of expression, the introduction of multi-party systems, the abolition of the death penalty and a fair justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e1992	The Christian People's Party will be able to stand behind very much of what the previous speaker said in relation to the interpellation and in relation to what pertains to the Peace Prize proposal. But I want to comment more directly on the content of the interpolation. The Christian People's Party has agreed with the representative Husøy that there are good reasons for a more active involvement with Cuba. The current escalation of cooperation already started under the Bondevik government. But the representative Husøy disappoints when she presents largely economic arguments for such a escalation. And there are two reasons why I thought it was disappointing. First of all, it paints a very exaggerated picture of the changes in economic policy to take place in Cuba today. Yes, there has been some liberalisation within some sectors, but it is piecewise and divided. When international investors for a large part scour Cuba, it is not just because of the American blockade, where I otherwise share the points of view that have come before, but it has at least as much cause in Cuba as its own economic policy, which creates unsafe conditions for investors and businesses. There are many examples of how the government changes laws and regulations, or their interpretations, from one day to the next. It is not random that the total investment level in Cuba is and seems to be low in the future. Secondly, Husøy completely ignores Cuba's lack of respect for fundamental human rights. This, of course, applies as before the political and civil courts of the people. Cuba still has these dishes in a systematic way. There is in every way reason to consider, especially in the light of the House Island somewhat unbalanced interplay, the fact that even when it applies to the partial liberalisation that takes place, there is a process that shuts many out for the benefit of the few. This has to do with lack of economic rights. And who are these few? Yes, to a very large extent, it is the political elite in the country who use the new opportunities in specific sectors, such as tourism and certain industries, for their own benefit. Most people, on the other hand, are systematically excluded from the scope of free economic activity. The consequence is that they become poorer and poorer despite some economic growth in the country as a whole. However, the conclusion is that only patient and long-term work will lead to results. Hence the increase that has taken place in cooperation, right, and it has the Christian People's Party's support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2003	It seems when you read about Cuba that you are either in one or the other ditch: either everything is black or everything is good. This is a country for which there is every reason to have the kind of contact with which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has described. But this is also a country with dictatorship that there is no reason to paint. Norway is in contact with other dictatorships because we think we can influence them. We'll deal with them – I won't name those states. So the line that the Secretary of State has drawn up, with broad contact and dialogue, and with the understanding that no one is served by the embargo that the United States is practicing, is a line left supports. But when that is said, I assume that there is a similar pressure from all parts of the Workers' Party – whether it is the government apparatus or others – when you have contact and dialogue with Cuba, that you say incredibly clearly about the human rights violations that take place, such as. the lack of freedom of expression, the one party system, the fact that you cannot obtain a permit to leave without paying the state high amounts of money, the fact that there are lot approval of students and a number of other measures. There are a number of Amnesty reports that describe this. I fully agree with the representative Lisbet Ruchtvedt when she says that the boycott, the embargo, is a huge problem, it shouldn't have been there. But besides that, it is a political and economic system that in itself prevents the use of the opportunities that actually exist in this country – the human resources and other. So you can't just blame the United States. It is important to settle the US boycott policy, but it is equally important to settle the policy that the Castro regime represents both economically and politically. So I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that Norway is equally active in telling us about this in the contact and dialogue you have, which is about promoting reasonable contact in all the practical areas described by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As for the point of giving the peace prize to Castro, I see it as a macabre joke. And I don't really have anything to add in addition to the talk that the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt had about it. The fact that there has not always been a clean line with regard to who has received this price is not in itself an invitation to continue cultivating dictators as recipients of the price. The line of the left can be summed up as follows: Yes to an active dialogue and contact, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has described it, and that we do what we can to make the boycott fall away, but also actively press on to tell whether or not and to combat all human rights violations of any nature that exists in this regime, because it is also necessary for Cuba to be able to evolve and free itself as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2016	I would like to take this opportunity to actually give a good description of what I think has happened and is going on in Cuba. The reason Cuba has come no further than it has today is, in the opinion of the undersigned, the political regime in Cuba. I have to admit that I think there were some serious historical shortcomings in the reflection that was presented from the interpellant's interpellant's interpellant's interpellant's interpellant's office on Cuba. Cuba has been one of the largest exporters in the world in attempts at revolution and imperialism. We remember, for example, the role they played in Chile, the tens of thousands of soldiers who were in Africa, etc. Imagine what this money could have been used to develop and combat poverty, hunger, distress and misery in Cuba itself! In my opinion, it would be a much better use of that money. The proposal for the Castro Peace Prize has already been characterised. I have to admit that I think it's a hair-removing proposal, which I didn't think we were going to experience in Norway in 2001, given all that we know about Cuba today. On the issue of the establishment of an embassy in Cuba, it is argued that it is important to have international contact, that it is via dialogue, etc. you can influence internationally. You shouldn't underestimate the significance of it, although I think it's international media availability, etc. which is the best way to promote democracy. But what strikes me as self-contradicting, for example, is. the attitude that our current foreign minister showed when it came to Austria, where it was proposed to stop contact with the country when a new regime came to power, instead of intensifying dialogue and having more influence. I can also mention the attitude towards Taiwan. I have not felt that the Norwegian authorities have done anything active to promote Taiwan, which is a democratic country, in any way in the world society. So in my opinion, it's a wrong signal that Norway now, when we cut down on foreign representations in a number of other countries, goes in to create an embassy in Cuba.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2027	Let me first pay tribute to the Labour Party and the Minister of Foreign Affairs for going one step further than the central government did, by creating an embassy in Cuba. I myself have been working on this matter for some years to try to get it done, but it was hard to get people even from my own party on it during the central government. I would also like to believe that the movement of solidarity in Norway will appreciate the fact that Norway is now increasing its contact. Then I have to say a little bit about those who are looking at their tall horse and talking about human rights. Very many of these are the same ones that cut in the u-help, cut in what can create a different standard of living for people. The representative Danielsen is one example, the party that Danielsen represented before, cut in the u-help consistently. In this way he sees that it is impossible to raise the standard of living of people, and it is impossible to believe that they have a worthy life. The left has a seat in government. I never heard criticism of Saudi Arabia, where they stone people and raise the head of people every Saturday – never. So here's a lot of people sitting on their tall horse, but who should split down and stay in this world. Some of the reasons for my involvement in this matter are the following: One child dies in this world every four seconds, 40,000 children die every day. A poor country in the world is able to distribute the few resources they have, so that they actually have a higher level of medical coverage than Norway, they have free health, they have free schooling, they have seven for people to eat, they have seven for people to get a proper health supply. Such examples seem important to me, because they show people who live in the slum in Rio, or those who are on the verge of death in Africa, that it is possible to do something different than what the market liberals in this world are doing today. That's why it's important that Norway now moves in a different direction when it's related to Cuba. I think that this debate is taking Norway a step further in its relations with Cuba. I think it's important that we think that there are things to do in relation to the development of democracy in Cuba. And I think it's important that Norwegian politicians try to get out of the mud they're in national, and try to see the world from another point of view, namely, their poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2041	I think the debate has been important and interesting. I think it came out very much useful in the Foreign Minister's reply. Since Cuba is surrounded by so many myths and prejudices, I'm glad we've had the discussion we've had today. I think it's important to break the one-sided image that Norwegian media give of Cuban society. Cuba has made its way and fights for the right of self-determination. We may disagree, we may distance ourselves from it and refer to violations of human rights, but I think the most important thing is that we maintain contact. Norway is a small country with no strategic interest in Cuba or the region and has a good starting point for fruitful cooperation. Personally, I believe that we have a political debt to the Cuban people, because we broke Norwegian law and sent weapons to the Batista regime. It can't be undone, but we can show that we distance ourselves from it by having a dialogue and cooperation. I think it is important that we support Cuba's ability to implement the changes they are facing. Professional, commercial and political cooperation and a broad international network are themselves a strength in the process of transition. I'm glad Norway has to play a role here. To the Cuban critics: I think we should criticise violations of human rights – of course. But we should also think of a number of other countries that have a lot worse scrolls than Cuba, like Turkey, Israel and Saudi Arabia. We can talk about many in Norway having their pigs in the woods in relation to supporting military dictatorships with death squadrons in Latin America – Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Nicaragua and El Salvador. In conclusion, we believe that we have not given a distorted picture of the economic situation and developments in Cuba. There's a lot of exciting going on. They're oriented towards the West, they're oriented towards an economic opening. As I said in my first post, I am convinced that development will go in a more democratic direction. As far as the Peace Prize is concerned, there are forums other than the Stortinge to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2058	Just a few short comments in the end. I think it is important that we base Norwegian foreign policy on principles that can hold in different cases, for example. The blockade. It's not that long since Lisbet Rugtvedt and I had an exchange of words here in the Chamber about SV's proposal to at least partially block Israel. I could say the same thing again. I don't think it's wise that Norway is in favour of unilateral blockades from any country. We have not been able to do so because it must be UN-tethered blockades. That's why we have, among other things, Contradicted the blockade of Cuba. That is why I strongly advise against going to the blockade of, for example. Israel, which was mentioned here. We must have a policy that can be defended on a case-by-case basis and not flagged in the wind. The same applies to diplomatic relations, as Dag Danielsen mentioned. Who we have diplomatic relations with does not rely on an assessment of the human rights situation in the country. Then, as has been said here, we could not have diplomatic relations with or embassies in Riyadh in Saudi Arabia, which does not even allow women to drive a car or to have any kind of work. So there are other criteria on the basis of whether we have diplomatic relations and embassies in different countries. And it also has to be something that keeps from case to case, and that you don't decide the closest situation. It also applies to attitudes towards human rights and political rights. It cannot be that political rights are less important because a population has been granted certain social rights. The position of political rights must be fundamental and must apply in any situation. This also applies to Cuba. That's why the dialogue we have with Cuba, based on the very fact that we're consistently dealing with it with political rights. We can't stop talking about it because Cuba is better than other Latin American countries in terms of social rights. Moreover, I believe – and that is the case for all poor countries – that the best thing to do for poor people is actually to introduce democracy, because it has proven to be historically and in many cases that it creates a dynamic of economic prosperity that other sets of governance cannot create. It's democracy that brings out new ideas, so you can bring up new technology. And it's usually bad governance, usually dictatorship, that makes you underdeveloped in a wide range of countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2069	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-16.ana.ud2392e2078	There is no record.
