ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e24	The representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Petter Løvik, Torstein Rudihagen, Arne Lyngstad, Gunhild Eyeågen and Per Ove Wideth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e48	From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget, dated 19 October 2001. The first letter reads: «The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State of His Majesty The King held on 19 October 2001 at 9 a.m. 1000 is determined: 1st@item: inlistbox Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland, Councillors Bjørn Tore Godal, Grete Knudsen, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Sylvia Kristin Brustad, Tore Tønne, Ellen Horn, Guri Ingebrichtsen, Terje Moe Gustavsen, Otto Gregussen, Anne Kristin Sydnes, Siri Bjerke, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Hanne Harlem, Karita Bekkemplem Orheim, Olav Aksensen and Trond Giske are granted on application from their offices as members of the King's council from 19 October 2001 at 7.30 p.m.m. 1200.2. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Kjell Magne Bondevik, is appointed Prime Minister and the following to Councils of State from 19 October 2001 at 2.30 p.m. 1200: Mr Jan Petersen Stortingsret representative Per-Kristian Foss StortingsretretsVägerd Svarstad Haugland Stortingsretret Lars Sponheim Stortingsretret Odd Einar Dørum Drørum Director Dagfinn Høybrätten Cand. Polit. Hilde Frafjord Johnson Stortingsrepresentative Einar Steensnæs Executive Director Laila Davay Vice-Chairman Kristin Clmet Bankschef Svein Harald Ludvigsen Rector Victor Danielsen Norman Stortingsrepresentative Ingerd Schou Stortingsrepresentative Ansgar Gabrielsen Director Torild Skogsholm Stortingsrepresentative Erna Solberg Stortingsrepresentative Kristin Krohn Devold Stortingsrepresentative Børge Brende.» The second letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State for H.M. The King held at Oslo Castle on 19 October 2001 at 9.30 p.m. 1200 is determined that the members of the Government shall take over the Management Board of the Departments as follows: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen, Ministry of Foreign Affairs State Council Per-Kristian Foss, Ministry of Finance State Council Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Ministry of Culture, and responsibility for running the Church Department in the Ministry of Education, Education and ResearchState Council Lars Sponheim, Ministry of Agriculture State Council Odd Einar Dørum, Ministry of Justice State Council Dagfinn Høybräten, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Development Council of State Einar Steensnæs, Ministry of Oil and Energy Councillor Laila Davøy, Ministry of Children and Family State Council Kristin Clement, Ministry of Education and Research, with the exception of the Church Department State Council Svein Ludvigsen, Ministry of Fisheries Minister of State Victor Danielsen Norman, Ministry of Labour and Administration State Council Ingerd Schou, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Social Affairs State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade State Council Torild Skogsholm, Ministry of Transport State Council Erna Solberg, Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs Council of State Kristin Krohn Devold, Ministry of Defence State Council Børge Brende, Ministry of the Environment.’ The third letter reads as follows: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to declare: In the State Council of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 19 October 2001 at 9.00 p.m. 1200 are the following State Secretaries appointed: Secretary Kari Husøy, Prime Minister's Office Special Adviser Gunnar Husan, Prime Minister's Office Special Adviser Odd Jostein Setter, Prime Minister's Office Secretary-General Eirik Ola Hektoen Moen, Prime Minister's Office Editor Gunnar Kvassheim, Prime Minister's Office 2nd Vice President Odd Anders With, Department of Children and Family Political adviser Øystein Børmer, Ministry of Finance Consultant Kari Elisabeth Olrud Moen, Ministry of Finance Business developer Knut Arild Hareide, Ministry of Finance Executive Director Solveig Strand, Ministry of Fisheries Researcher Bjørn Haugstad, Ministry of Education, Education and Research Sogneprist Berit Øksnes Gjerløw, Ministry of Culture 1. amanuensis Yngve Johan Legtholm, Ministry of Culture Rector Leif Helge Kongshaug, Ministry of Agriculture Civil economist André Støylen, Ministry of the Environment Director Helle Hammer, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade Rector Arnfinn Torbjørn Ellingsen, Ministry of Transport Councillor Kristin Ravnanger, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health Director Osmund Kaldheim, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Social Affairs Director Elsbeth Tronstad, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Advocate General Vidar Helgesen, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Head of Mission Kim Traavik, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.’ The President proposes that these three letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The President will also, on behalf of the Stortinget, congratulate the newly appointed state councils and state secretaries and look forward to good cooperation between government and magnification. The change of government entails the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the Government of Jens Stoltenberg, Thorbjørn Jagland, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Sylvia Brustad, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Karita Bekkemellem Orheim, Olav Akselsen and Trond Giste take the seat as representatives. The following alternates meet as representatives at the time representatives of Kjell Magne Bondevik, Jan Petersen, Per-Kristian Foss, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Lars Sponheim, Odd Einar Dørum, Einar Steensnæs, Ingerd Schou, Ansgar Gabrielsen, Erna Solberg, Kristin Krohn Devold and Børge Brende are members of the Government: For the West-Agder states: Peter Gitmark For Akershus County: Einar Holstad and André Dahl For the Hordaland County: May Britt Vihovde and Silja Ekeland For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Modulf Supplement For Oslo: Trine Skei Grande, Ine Marie Eriksen and Hans R. Kjæstad For the Province of Rogaland: Olaf Gedrem For the South-Trøndelag County: Linda Cathrine Hofstad For Eastfold County: Carsten Dybevig A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Bjørn Hernæs, Finn Kristian Marthinen and Øyvind Waksdal on leave from 23 October to 16 November, all to attend the 56th General Assembly of the United Nations, Part II, of New York from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen from 23 October until further notice from the Group of the Christian People's Party on welfare leave for the representative Einar Holstad from 23 October to 26 October On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Eldbjørg I. Lundby For Buskerud County: Unni Hennum Lie For Hedmark County: Kari Glöersen For Rogaland County: Toril K. Haaland Horpestad For Nord-Trondelag County: Jon Olav Alstad
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e310	Eldbjørg I. Lundby, Unni Hennum Lie, Kari Glöersen, Toril K. Haaland Horpestad and Jon Olav Alstad are present and will take the seat. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e315	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to propose that the import quotas for travel equipment and luggage, such as alcohol and tobacco, be harmonised with EU legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e320	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e332	After the election of the year, parties which together form a majority in the Stortinget have confirmed their desire for a change of government. A cooperative government based in the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left has, on this basis, assumed government responsibility. The government goes to work with deep respect for the task and the people we are set to serve. The functioning of the government shall be beneficial to the whole country. The cooperative government has its value anchoring in the principles of the rule of law and democracy and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. The Government will pursue a policy based on: respect for human life and human dignity discharge in respect of individual human rights protection in relation to family management responsibilities and care for disadvantaged people For a good society, these are inalienable values. Many now experience threats. The terrorist attacks on the United States concern us all. They are an estimate of the fundamental values of democratic society – transparency, freedom and security. The aim of the terrorists is to create confusion and division, fear and insecurity. But they must not succeed! Instead of being confused, we're going to show determination and perseverance. Instead of splitting, we're going to show firmness and coherence. Instead of fear of alienation and insecurity between people, we need to build new trust and understanding. The cooperative government wants to be a government for all the country's inhabitants, regardless of their faith, skin color, sexual orientation and ethnic background. Samemen is an indigenous people in Norway. The government sees it as important that their way of life, culture and values can be preserved and further developed. The policy of the Co-operation Board will be based on the Sem Declaration of 8 October. The government will invite all parties in Stortinget to constructive cooperation. The parliamentary situation underlines the need for this. The government wants to seek solutions that bring together broad support for the guiding lines of Norwegian policy. This is not least the case in the field of foreign and security policy. But stability, long-termity and predictable framework conditions are also important within the Norwegian community. Norway has great opportunities. If we are to arrest them, we need a will for political renewal. In important areas, the Government will set up a new policy course. The solutions shall respect both the fundamental Community values and the values of freedom. The government will strengthen Community values and social responsibility. We want to strengthen our international solidarity with those who are poor, persecuted and in need.We want to renew our defence and increase our preparedness for new societal threats.We want to further develop welfare systems and combat poverty problems in Norway.We want to modernise the public sector for the benefit of users and businesses.We want to expand elderly care, improve health services and bet prevention.We want to create more sustainable solutions in relation to the environmental and climate challenges. The government will promote the values of freedom and personal responsibility. We want to create «simplify Norway».We want to significantly reduce the level of taxes and charges throughout the ageing period.We want to extend the freedom of choice for families with children by investing in full child care coverage and cash support.We want to provide better opportunities for voluntary organisations.We want to invest in knowledge as an important prerequisite for value creation and well-being, and for the ability of individuals to take responsibility for themselves. The government will anchor foreign policy in the UN and in the Atlantic community. Active European policies must be pursued. The Government assumes that Norway’s relationship with the EU is based on the EEA Agreement and other cooperation agreements with the EU. There is a great deal of emphasis on developing cooperation with the countries of our neighbourhood. Norwegian defence and security shall be firmly anchored in NATO. The conversion of the defence will be carried out with the necessary funding. The government will work specifically to reduce the vulnerability of society, including: in relation to terrorist actions. While the world's richer country has become richer, the gulf to the poorest has increased. The Government wants Norway to be at the forefront of international cooperation for development, debt and human rights. Development assistance shall be streamlined and gradually increased to 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005. Developing countries will have better market access. The Government will strengthen the Asylum Institute and ensure that practices comply with international human rights obligations. Also in Norway, the gap between the richest and the poorest has increased in the last decade. The Government will present an action plan with targeted measures to help people out of poverty. These measures will cover both the economy, housing and incentives to work rather than the passive receipt of social benefits. It is not least important to improve the living conditions of poor families with children. In the family, the basis for children’s safety and personality development is laid. The government will build family policy on the primary responsibility of parents for their children. The freedom of parents to better adapt their time to the needs of their children needs to be ensured. The goal is clear: all children must have good growing conditions. The government will work for full child care coverage. Both public and private kindergartens will be cheaper. All government grants to kindergartens will be combined into one direct grant to each nursery. The government will continue the cash support and gradually increase the amount. The co-operation management will transform the House Bank in order to better align the loan arrangements with those who purchase housing for the first time. Consumers' rights will be protected and the Government will maintain a restrictive line with regard to child advertising. Women and men shall have equal rights. The public must go ahead to ensure real equality. It is the Government’s objective that Norway should become a nation in close international terms with regard to new technologies, competences and knowledge. Norway is rich in natural resources. Nevertheless, the values and attitudes of the population, their knowledge and competence, are the largest resource in Norway’s future. The government will therefore increase the focus on education and skills. The school shall disseminate cultural heritage, education, values and knowledge. It shall assist children in mastering, unfolding and social development. The government will equip the public school for both education, material and premises. Special emphasis shall be placed on strengthening the skills of students in reading, writing and billing. The ICT bet is continued. The State shall contribute to a comprehensive loan programme in order to ensure good and appropriate school buildings. Teachers and school leaders shall be guaranteed a competitive salary and teacher training shall be strengthened. The government will improve the private school law. The criteria for recognition shall be simplified and the economic basis of the schools shall be strengthened. The Swedish Cooperative Government will gradually increase its research effort to at least the average OECD level by 2005. A significant part of the escalation shall be used for fundamental research. Tax incentives will be introduced for the research and development activities of enterprises. The purpose of the co-operation management is to provide health services in an equivalent manner, irrespective of their place of residence and economy. The government will follow up the hospital reform. The free choice of hospitals and the input-driven financing of hospitals shall be extended to private hospitals contracted by regional health establishments. Psychiatric, cancer and hospital equipment escalation plans shall be implemented. Preventive health work will be pursued. Life support for seriously ill and dying shall be strengthened. All human life has the same human dignity. The sorting of human lives shall not occur. The government will establish the precautionary principle before the use of new genetic and biotechnologies is permitted. The government will improve the life situation of people with physical or mental disabilities so that they can have a life situation that is equivalent to disability. The government will strengthen treatment provision for drug users. Public welfare schemes depend on the local economy. The government will strengthen the framework of the municipal sector during the period, increase municipal autonomy and facilitate efficiency. Legal certainty and security of life, health and property are important prerequisites for freedom and life. The government will make the prevention and fight against crime one of its most important tasks. Discrimination and racism must be actively combated. The integration of immigrants needs to be improved. Good Norwegian knowledge and active job placement are essential for success. The government will pursue an offensive environmental and resource policy based on the objective of sustainable development. The work on biodiversity, the clean-up of old environmental sins and the control of PCB pollution must be reinforced. Work on nature protection, outdoor life and cultural memories are also priority areas. Cooperation management will focus on dynamic interaction with non-governmental organisations, municipalities and businesses. In the field of climate change, the Government will propose new measures to achieve the Kyoto Agreement’s objectives of demonstrable progress by 2005. A significant part of the emission reduction shall be achieved through national measures. The establishment of a national allowance system shall be accelerated. Cooperation governance will contribute to a forward-looking energy policy, facilitating the increasing use of CO2-free gas power plants and renewable energy sources by Norway, such as bioenergy and wind power. At the same time, energy saving measures are strengthened. In the case of gas power plants, the Government will base the Storting decision and provide framework conditions for the establishment of CO2-free gas power plants. Increased research, a cooperation programme with industry, an economic ‘start-up package’ through tax exemptions and a study of environmental status with an ongoing assessment of emission permits will be central. Until a tradable allowances system is established, new emission permits and concessions are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology. Natural and marine environments in the north are very vulnerable. A comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea will therefore be drawn up. The government will pursue an economic policy where the main objectives are work for all, increased value creation, further development of the welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. A strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for achieving its objectives. The government will set a new course for government ownership policy. Stronger private ownership is important for vitalising Norwegian business and stimulating business development in Norway. In order to avoid role conflicts between the State's functions as owner and controller, the Government will bring together state ownership in one department and gradually reduce state ownership. The government will transform the policy to ensure increased access to labour. It shall be easier and more profitable to work longer before retirement. The labour immigration code shall be softened. It opens up that the sick can be treated more quickly and come back to work. The co-operation administration will actively follow up the agreement concluded with the social partners on measures to reduce sick leave. The co-operation administration will take a new course in tax policy. Business and personal taxpayers alike will receive tax relief. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, consideration of the creation of value added and jobs. More competitive framework conditions will discourage the loss of good investment projects, trade and business ideas for Norway. Secondly, the desire for greater freedom of choice and to give people a better chance of living on their own income. Therefore, the government will significantly reduce the overall level of taxation through the down payment period. A good industrial policy is also good district policy. Important district industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture and tourism contribute to the creation of value added, spread housing and good living conditions throughout the country. Information and communication technologies provide new opportunities to use the whole country. Good, safe and effective solutions to travel throughout the country must be ensured. Road appropriations shall be increased. Air transport shall be subject to a fee reduction. The safety of maritime transport shall be strengthened. It opens up freer establishment of express buses. There is no contrast between good urban conditions and growth-intensive districts. The government will pursue an active and positive urban policy. The government will implement a boost for public transport, especially in major cities. The objective is better capacity, increased frequency and price reductions. Norway is one of the world's leading fishing nations. The Government will actively facilitate the exploitation of the major opportunities for coastal Norway in aquaculture and the fishing industry. Industries must be based on sustainable resource management, and pollution that could threaten marine resources must be combated. The cooperative government will work for a viable and decentralised agriculture that exploits new technologies and new market opportunities. An important task will be to ensure safe food for consumers, while reducing the difference in food prices compared to our neighbouring countries. The Government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, will actively promote the modernisation of the public sector. It should be more user-oriented and service-oriented. Efficiencies in public core tasks are released through streamlining. There is a need for greater transparency in administration. The Government will resume and further develop the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. Laws and regulations shall be simplified and time-limited. The use of outsourcing in the public sector shall be extended. Purchases from private enterprises shall be treated in the same way as public own production of services. The building legislation of the Planning and Building Act shall be simplified and the time taken to deal with regulatory matters reduced. The Act on opening hours shall be repealed and the provisions on Sundays and public holidays shall be transferred to the legislation on public holidays. The government will initiate an evaluation of the new county municipality. The government will place great emphasis on ensuring the vitality and tension of cultural life. Culture and art, media, voluntary organisations, sports, church and life-viewing communities can offer enriching experiences and arenas for engagement. Cultural policy must support independent cultural workers, artists and institutions. The Government will establish a cultural memory fund based on cooperation between private and state capital. The Norwegian Church, the Friary and other religious communities must be guaranteed good working conditions. The Church's independence in spiritual matters must be respected, and the Government will continue the reform work with the transfer of greater responsibility to church bodies. The government will renew and improve the policy of volunteering to trigger more and more of the creative forces that exist in civil society. Voluntary organisations shall be compensated for the impact of the VAT reform. The deduction framework for gifts to non-governmental organisations will be extended. As politicians, we can give decent laws and framework conditions, but good society can only be created by people themselves, as individuals and in common with others. Generations before us have made Norway a good society. Our challenge – our responsibility – is to make Norway even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-23.ana.ud1254e540	: Declaration by the Government is proposed for consideration in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
