ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e48	The following alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Einar Holstad For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad For South Tribute County: No Balstad
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e69	There is a certain possibility that there will be a need for an evening meeting today, and the President will therefore propose, on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, that the scheduled weekly programme be amended to include the evening meeting of the current meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e74	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e79	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e84	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e99	Since the 1970s, there has been a growing recognition that threats to the environment and the natural resource base are also a threat to economic and social development. In the autumn of 1993, the UN General Assembly decided to set up a Commission to conduct a critical analysis of how the world’s nations could work to solve environmental and development problems. Gro Harlem Brundtland was elected head of the World Commission on the Environment and Development, which presented the report 'Our Common Future' in 1987. The Commission launched sustainable development as a goal for the world society. Sustainable development was defined as a development that meets today's needs without destroying the possibilities of future generations to meet their needs. One main message was that environmental challenges need to be seen in the context of economic growth and development, and that the natural resource base needs to be managed in a way that makes economic and social development possible. Sustainable development was set as a target for qualitatively changed economic and social development, where democracy, participation and participation had to be key elements. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was convened in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992 to discuss the promotion of sustainable development and to set new objectives for future efforts. The Rio Conference adopted an action plan for environment and development into the next century, Agenda 21, as well as the Rio Declaration, which contains 27 principles for the environment and development. In addition, the UNFCCC, the Convention on Biological Diversity and Principles for the Sustainable Use of Forests were adopted. As a follow-up to the Rio Conference, the UN will hold the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Rio+10, in Johannesburg in 2002. At the summit, all countries are expected to report on their work on sustainable development. In the November 1998 session of the Nordic Council, the Nordic Prime Ministers and the political leaders of the autonomous areas presented a declaration on a sustainable Nordic region. The Prime Minister’s Declaration acknowledges that sustainable development is one of the most important challenges at the start of a new millennium. Eleven objectives are identified for sustainable development in the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods, including: the following: a safe and healthy life for current and future generations of democracy, transparency and participation in the conservation of biodiversity and the productivity of ecosystems; emissions of pollution not exceeding the natural limits of sustainable management and use of renewable and non-renewable natural resources; integration of the principle of sustainable development in all sectors of society; a more efficient use of energy and natural resources; Stats mandated the Nordic Council of Ministers to develop a cross-sectoral strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region and its neighbourhoods focusing on areas where the Nordic region has common interests and particularly good conditions for contributing to sustainable development and where Nordic cooperation creates added value. In autumn 1999, the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation set up a negotiating group consisting of two representatives from each country and one representative from each of the autonomous areas. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment have represented Norway in their work. In view of the cross-sectoral nature of the State, close contact with the departments concerned has been maintained on the Norwegian side, while NGOs have been invited to make recordings, including: through several consultation rounds. The current strategy, «Sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region», was presented to the Environment Ministers in November and approved by the Cooperation Ministers in December 2000. The strategy came into force on 1 January of this year, subject to the treatment of the Nordic Council. The strategy is based on the recognition of sustainable development as one of the most important challenges of our time, and how the Nordic countries can meet these challenges through long-term policies and cooperation. We're in a hurry to change our course. Increased greenhouse gas emissions, local air pollution and noise, increased urbanisation, increasing volumes of waste and loss of biodiversity and natural and cultural values are key societal challenges. The large number of chemical substances in our environment as well as micro-organisms and food additives pose significant health and environmental problems. Other important challenges are cross-border, such as air and sea pollution. Furthermore, we have global environmental problems related to poverty and development, as well as the role of the indigenous population in natural management and development issues. Population trends and the objective of equality between and within generations mean that natural resources need to be used more cautiously and that the environment needs to be protected from harmful influences. There is a need for sustainable production and consumption patterns and sustainable consumption of non-renewable resources that can contribute to the conservation of natural cycles and the development of renewable alternatives. The transition towards a sustainable Nordic region must mean that significant driving forces in society, such as globalisation and the development of the information society, also take care of important concerns such as the environment, food security and well-being. An important framework for the strategy is the Nordic countries’ many similarities in social structure and cultural background. The strategy is based on common Nordic challenges and development potentials with environmental and sustainable development significance, while reflecting national differences in conditions and assumptions. The strategy focuses on the importance of coordinated Nordic views in order to achieve greater impact in international negotiations and forums. Within the chemical field, for example: to work to influence the EU in such a way that their decisions are based more on the precautionary principle, on the polluter pays principle and on the substitution of dangerous substances with less dangerous substances. An important element of the strategy is the integration of environmental considerations into all sectors, so-called sectoral integration. This implies that individual sectors are to assume their share of responsibility for meeting environmental objectives and international environmental obligations. A clear division of responsibilities between the environmental sector and other sectors is an important prerequisite for sectoral integration. The strategy sets out objectives for sustainable development in the Nordic region and the neighbourhoods in a 20-year perspective, as well as proposals for action over the next four years to achieve these objectives. The strategy consists of three parts. The first covers cross-sectoral areas such as climate change, biodiversity and genetic resources, the sea, chemicals and food security. These areas represent environmental, health, social and economic challenges in which sustainable development can only be achieved through cross-sectoral efforts. The second part of the strategy focuses on priority sectors such as energy, transport, agriculture, business, fisheries and forestry. In the last part, the other areas of action are addressed, such as knowledge base and resource efficiency, neighbourhoods, public participation and Local Agenda 21. A separate short version of the strategy has been developed. A number of measures are proposed for the next four years. I want to mention some areas of interest. Within the climate and energy area, it is proposed to develop the Baltic Sea region as a pilot area for the Kyoto mechanisms. An investment fund for climate-related projects under the Nordic Environmental Funding Company, NEFCO, can support this work. Consideration will also be given to the possibility of establishing a Nordic quota market. This needs to be seen in the context of the EU's work on a European allowance market and the national allowance systems that several countries are working on. In the context of product-oriented environmental cooperation, it is proposed inter alia: strengthening the Nordic Eco-label Swan, which was established ten years ago under the Nordic Council of Ministers. The purpose of the Swan is to limit the environmental impact of production and consumption. Studies show that 60-80 pst. the Nordic population is familiar with the Eco-label. An evaluation of the Swan has just been carried out, including: recommendations on how to make the Swan an even more powerful instrument. The strategy emphasises that high-quality healthy and safe food must be ensured throughout the chain from raw materials via the manufacturer to the consumer. This is an area that is strongly focused. Last year, a Nordic food minister meeting in Copenhagen presented an ambitious political declaration. The Nordic strategy continues these lines and marks the Nordics that are driving in this area. Risk factors such as infectious agents, antibiotics, environmental pollution and pesticides shall be controlled at source. Diseases transmitted from animals to humans shall be controlled both through national efforts and through international cooperation. Labelling and consumer information shall enable consumers to make real and informed choices. Soil and marine pollution must be kept under control in order to ensure food safety. The objective is sustainable agricultural and fisheries sectors to produce healthy and safe food without degradation of the resource base or damage to natural ecosystems. For genetically modified organisms – GMOs – strict environmental and health risk assessment requirements shall be imposed and the precautionary principle applied when placing GMOs on the market. Labelling shall clearly inform consumers when food and other products are produced using GMOs. Nordic countries will also work to prevent damage to nature through the release of GMOs and non-resident species. Through efforts in the neighbourhoods, the Nordic countries wish to contribute to the exploitation of the economic potential, to the promotion and integration of sustainable development in the sectors and to the smoothing of social inequalities. Important areas of action include the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable use of resources, the reduction of pollution and the restoration of environmental quality. Environmental action in the Arctic will be intensified, inter alia: through the follow-up to the Nordic Action Plan on Nature and Culture in the Arctic. In order to strengthen and disseminate the local Agenda 21 work in all Nordic municipalities, a Nordic network for exchange of experience will be developed, among others. through the establishment of a common Nordic web portal, and creating a window to the outside world that makes the Local Agenda 21 work visible in the Nordic region. Based on positive experience with the National Local Agenda 21 website, this is considered to be an important measure to which the Norwegian side wishes to contribute. In order to strengthen and disseminate Local Agenda 21 in the neighbourhoods, social and democratic development as well as networking in the Baltic Sea region and the Barents region will be given priority. The Nordic countries have joined the strategy unanimously with one exception, which concerns the capture of whales, where Sweden has reserved. The strategy is based on the principle of a sustainable use of natural resources. For Norway, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, it has been particularly important to have an impact on this principle. This first version of the strategy focuses on the environmental dimension of sustainable development and how this premises economic development. Strengthening the social dimension in the revision of the strategy in 2004 and incorporating other sectors into the strategy will be an important challenge. For example, knowledge in a broad sense will be of great importance in achieving sustainable development. In this context, it is important to underline the educational awareness-raising role. Environmental education has been central for many years, not only in Norwegian school, but also in Nordic and international educational cooperation. The extensive Nordic cooperation on environmental education is a good basis to build on. Further work will be undertaken on developing indicators for reporting and evaluating the results achieved in implementing the strategy. The Nordic Council shall hold a thematic meeting on sustainable development from 2 to 3 April in Oslo on the basis of this strategy. The meeting will focus on Nordic sustainable development and present perspectives on the Nordic proposal of invited guests. The government aims to be represented by several government councils during this theme meeting. The Nordic strategy will provide a way of complementing the national policies of each country in order to achieve sustainable development. The strategy can also contribute to a greater achievement of the objectives of national policies and savings in the implementation of policies both nationally and internationally. Although responsibility for follow-up will lie at both national and Nordic level, the main political, economic and administrative responsibility will lie with each country and the autonomous areas. It assumes that national policies are designed to this end, including the implementation of instruments to trigger actions and efforts in the individual sectors concerned. All sectors concerned will be responsible for the follow-up of the strategy within their area of responsibility and it is important to ensure a strong involvement in the follow-up of the sectors. In practice, this will in many cases involve close cross-sectoral cooperation. It is suggested that local authorities, business, NGOs, etc. also involved in implementation. In several Nordic countries, national sustainable development strategies to be presented at the World Summit on Sustainable Development – Rio+10 – are currently being developed in 2002. The Government will provide a follow-up plan for the Nordic strategy at national level, which could provide a basis for Rio+10 in 2002. Finland may seem to have gone the farthest in this work. In 1993, a Finnish National Committee for Sustainable Development, chaired by the Prime Minister, was set up. The Finnish Government adopted a programme for sustainable development in 1998. An overall evaluation of the programme will be carried out in advance of Rio+10. Finland has also launched a sustainable development programme involving business, NGOs, municipalities and the Sami Parliament. In Denmark, the development of a national sustainable development strategy will be one of the main activities of this spring. The Nordic strategy will be used as a starting point. Particular attention will be paid to public participation, and efforts will be made in the preparation of a debate, including: through meetings and interactive websites. Iceland has developed a sustainable development strategy that, like the Nordic strategy, will apply for the next 20 years. A national sample has also been set up to follow up the Nordic strategy. In Sweden, a national strategy for sustainable development is under way. Work is seen in the context of Sweden’s role as Presidency of the EU in this six-month period, and it is suggested that a draft can be submitted to the summit in Gothenburg in June. The follow-up to the strategy will be a priority in organised cooperation within the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Cooperation ministers have the overall responsibility for implementation. It is assumed that each Council of Ministers will follow up in its field of responsibility. With the strong cross-sectoral approach adopted by the strategy, cross-sectoral cooperation at Nordic level is also important for the follow-up. In the Nordic budget for 2001, there are 4 million. DKK. At the same time, it is foreseen that sectors allocated by these funds will have to contribute at least as much of their own resources so that 8 million can be actually made available. DKK of Nordic funds this year. In addition, it is assumed that countries themselves need to allocate national resources to ensure proper follow-up. Nordic cooperation covers a number of areas such as: environment, energy, economics, consumers, fisheries and agriculture and forestry. Individual sectors develop their own strategies and action programmes. These will be central to the sectoral follow-up of the strategy. The new action programme for agriculture and forestry can be mentioned in this context. Nordic environmental cooperation has been based for a number of years on environmental strategies with concrete objectives for cooperation. The Nordic Environment Ministers approved last November a new Environment Action Programme for the period 2001-2004. The programme also provides a basis for the cooperation of the environmental sector with the various sectoral sectors. The Nordic Environment Ministers will have overall political responsibility for the implementation and follow-up of the action programme, which entered into force on 1 January 2001, subject to the treatment of the Nordic Council. During the development of the EAP, emphasis has been placed on concreteising the strategy for a sustainable Nordic region in relevant areas and sectors and on contributing to sectoral integration. The Programme focuses on a number of policy areas for the period 2001 to 2004 in priority environmental protection areas, cross-sectoral cooperation areas and other cross-sectoral areas. Environment and health as well as the environment and transport represent new cross-sectoral areas of Nordic environmental cooperation. The present strategy is an important policy document that provides a solid basis for developing the Nordic region and neighbourhoods in a sustainable way over the next 20 years. The strategy proposes a number of concrete actions for the next four years that can contribute to such a development. The strategy has provided the Nordic region with a politically binding document covering many sectors and involving extensive commitments for the Nordic countries, both nationally and in Nordic cooperation. In 2002, Norway chaired the Nordic cooperation. The follow-up to the strategy will be an important element of the Presidency programme we are now developing. It is important to see the Nordic strategy in relation to the development of similar strategies in the EU and the OECD, where the Nordic region can be a driving force. The EU is developing a sustainable development strategy that will contribute to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Rio+10, in Johannesburg in 2002. Since all countries are expected to report their work to the World Summit, this strategy should be used as a common Nordic contribution. The Nordic countries can thereby promote increased and committed international cooperation on sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e199	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Cooperation be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e211	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e222	The setting for Document No. 8:14 shows that there is no majority that will go in front of what the right here suggests. Nevertheless, a minority proposal from the Central Party will receive subsidiary support and thus majority support. The proposal allows local actors to participate in the provision of employment services for those in need of additional organisation and follow-up. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is not the way to get more people to work. In this context, I would like to recall what was said in the open hearing on labour immigration yesterday. There we were told by the Joint Organisation of Disabilities that some of the most important things to do are individual arrangements and close cooperation across the floors. We were told that education needs to be taken over a longer period of time, and solutions need to be found, for example. in the case of transport. From the Velferdsalliansen it was stressed that this group of job seekers is afraid of stigmatisation, especially because there have been calls for the opening up of labour immigration from several teams. Many feel that they are not worth anything on the labour market. We can all agree that it is not a good feeling to get at a time when we say that we lack hands and not money. Furthermore, the FFO has stated that a desire to improve Section 13 of the Working Environment Act so that employers are more likely to facilitate the conditions for people with disabilities in the labour market. Take users seriously, said the Velferd Alliance, and bet more strongly on meetings where the different levels become more solution-oriented. An overall committee calls for a review of Aetat’s action activities in general and for Aetat to be given sufficient resources and competences to assist people with disabilities in a better way than at present. The FFO also said something about this in the hearing yesterday. They pointed out that the most important thing is that labour market measures are stable, i.e. cyclically independent. I think it's healthy that this group of workers criticizes and challenges Aetat, things can probably do much better. However, we must not forget that it is absolutely essential for employers to employ people. None other than the employer can. We all agree that more attention should be paid to the fact that people who want to provide a job need to be able to do so, but on the part of the Labour Party, we ask whether local actors have sufficient knowledge of these things. What are their conditions for multidisciplinary cooperation? We also know that this group of jobseekers often get work in shorter periods, but that they will be unemployed again. Who, then, is to be responsible? Aetate or local actors? The Labour Party and the Left Party point out in their comments that there is already a wide range of measures in Aetate and that there must still be Aetate responsible for the development of individual action plans and for the coordination and follow-up of action sites. As I said, things can of course be done better, but the Workers' Party believes that this group of jobseekers is worthy of responsibility placed with the public. It is considered by the Labour Party that it is precisely Aetat, as a national tool for implementing labour market policies, that is best suited to conveying these groups of unemployed as well. We need a comprehensive and inclusive dissemination strategy, and we believe this proposal from the Right is a step in the opposite direction. There are also concerns beyond what is purely political in this matter, including. in relation to privacy. Then I'll give you an explanation of vote. The working party shall vote in favour of I and against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e257	The case manager has, as the signatures, met the disabled people's organisations. We both know that both the disabled and the local authorities feel that everything is not done at all to ensure that the disabled are brought into the labour market. Individual arrangements, they call for disabled people. Yes, that is what can happen if the monopoly is challenged. Several stakeholders, several helpers to meet the professionals, will increase the attractiveness of this group. Many more will then be able to get jobs and train society and itself, as they wish. Does not the representative realise that there is a particular competition to make these people’s residual working capacity – or working capacity, for some are actually the case – useful? That's what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e266	As far as competition is concerned, I would have liked there to be a greater competition among employers to hire this group. Now it seems to me that we turn our attention to those who have knowledge, and that, among other things. after instructions from this room have the ability to do something. We turn our attention there instead of looking at what we do to those who have to employ them. I think we agree that not everything is good with this group. But as I said in my post, it is the employers who employ them, and then we can all try to make these people more attractive to the market. As I said, individual plans and cross-border cooperation have been identified as important, and I cannot, to the best of my knowledge, understand that local actors should have the prerequisites for doing that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e273	It happens that I can be seriously amazed at how selective people hear. Yesterday I attended a hearing in the direction of the Municipal Committee, where, for example, the Velferd Alliance. talked about not inter-territorial cooperation but inter-territorial aggregation. They meant the same thing as in one of the examples in the document from the Right, that the municipalities might be able to take responsibility for the entire package of measures, which is one of the things we could have tried out in more detail. It is a local actor who is responsible for, for example, today. social clients and to engage in cooperation. Every time we meet municipalities and discuss this in the municipal committee, they point out the problems. I suggest that the President-in-Office take a trip to City 5 in Oslo and talk to his people in District 5 about how their experience is of how cooperation with Aetat works just to get the most out of work, and then it's not about those with limited disability, but it's about foreign language and social clients. What they said on Friday at a conference that was held at the Adult College on foreign immigrants was that someone had to get sole responsibility. There's enough money in the system, but it's floating around on bad liability. On the right-hand side, we've said that we think there are a lot of people who can contribute. We're not saying that we have a perfect solution, that's why we're proposing a wide-ranging trial project, how many can come up with good ideas, and where, of course, Aetat has to come up with his expert opinion on some of them, for example. when ordering in relation to individual plans, but sometimes others may also determine the individual action plans. And then we can see if that gives us better reality. All of the signals that come from those who work outside of Aetat, are that the cooperation doesn't work, it's not good enough, there's too many creative ideas that disappear. But the Workers' Party says that Aetat is amen and amen: it's more important with Aetat's monopoly than doing something for those who are going to work. Is it true that the Workers' Party believes that Aetat has a monopoly on creativity in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e284	No one has a monopoly on creativity. But the Stortinget has asked for a notice on the future organisation of Aetat, and in addition, the entire committee has said that we need to get a review of the overall measures that Aetat has on a general basis. Then you can ask if creativity hasn't been big enough with us. Because we have said knowingly that we need a lot of different measures, and we have mentioned them, wage subsidies, public employment – at all, there are a lot of measures that Aetat has. Then you could say that creativity should perhaps be bigger with us here in Stortingen to find measures that are good enough. In the case of a service office, we in the Workers' Party are very much in order for you to have the services of the Social Security Office, Aetats and the Social Service Office in one place. So I see no contrast to what the Velferd Alliance said yesterday, and what we in the Workers' Party mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e291	Document No The 8 proposal today I have experienced has been driven by a situation today where things are not handled well enough against different groups that have problems with entering the labour market. I am surprised that the Labour Party does not take a stronger approach to the situation — that part of the young people involved in a job go down, and that at a time when the search light for efficiency, at cost, is the theme of excluding more and more jobseekers. So the representative says Aud Gaundal: things can probably be done a lot better. Yes, I want an Aetat that is even stronger than today is an important traveler in this context, which is liberal, offensive, and flexible. So Aud Gaundal says in relation to employers, what are their interdisciplinary arrangements? What an employer has in mind is actually to see the possibilities in the individual workplace, in the individual enterprise. There are many employers who also actually have the will – against all odds – to include more, and it is this interaction, this flexibility, which is not being exploited well enough today. If the Workers' Party went a little further in relation to the important resource that employers are in this, we would have come a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e296	I think the Labour Party and the representative Meltveit Kleppa agree quite well with the fact that this has to do a good job for employers, so that we get a more flexible and adapted working life for those we are talking about here. There is no doubt that too much attention is focused on what an employee cannot do, compared to what an employee can do. Then it is produced as if the Workers' Party should be against young people getting into work. I have often used the example of a 28-year-old who three years after a traffic accident sat there and was unemployed, with an amputated foot. I believe that it should not have been allowed in today's Norway to end up like this, so I am very concerned that the young workers also get into work. I think all the political parties are. One thing that worries me: we still see applications for Aetat. The last application so I came from my own state and called something like "a work that suits me." It is estimated at NOK 400000. I do not believe that this type of measure is good enough for quality assurance. It sounds very good at first, but I have to say that the knowledge and experience that Aetat has, I want to keep in Aetat, and I also want those who need the help to make use of that knowledge instead of almost being left to private. And, as I said, I am also asking a question about privacy in the kind of measures that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is also participating today in saying that we should try.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e307	The rapporteur was based on yesterday's consultation of the municipal committee on the proposals on labour immigration. We also heard there the Velferd Alliance – a merger of many organisations, among others. the organisation of the job seekers and the organisations of the disabled. On questions from me, the representative of the job-seekers' organisation, as he said earlier, confirmed that he experienced the type of proposal we dealt with yesterday as a provocation compared to the 160 000 disabled, disabled, refugees, long-term unemployed. So there's a lot of free hands that want to work. For the Christian People's Party, the right to work on the basis of the assumptions you have is absolutely fundamental. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to give everyone who wants to work an opportunity based on their own assumptions. Yesterday we were told that we were missing hands in this country, not money. Three weeks after Document No. The 8 proposal was presented, we could read the notice on the first page in the Northern Norway national newspaper: «Reflected job by Aetat. Refugees still unemployed. Today, 25 refugees could get a job and a start in Norwegian working life. The Employment Act of Troms does not permit them.» There's going to be something fundamentally wrong when we experience that kind of thing. The Christian People's Party is concerned that people with disabilities, people with disabilities and refugees will get a job, not by whom they are going to carry out the placement. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the job offer, as underlined by the need for it at yesterday's hearing, is arranged on an individual basis, so that the job offer becomes real. The Christian People's Party is concerned that all good forces are used to get this done. We are not primarily concerned with competition, but diversity, to find the creative solutions. Monopoly activities do not create creativity. We have many experiences of this. As the rapporteur also emphasised, an entire committee is pleased that we are going to have a review of Aeta's action in relation to the disabled. The Committee therefore calls for Aetat to be given sufficient resources and competences to assist the disabled more effectively than at present. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the proposal to drop more people to just to increase their skills, just to increase their creativity, precisely because we're occupied with the hands that want to work, and not primarily by Aetat and its monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e330	What made me ask for the floor for a reply was the representative of Østberg's opinion on and example from the lookup in the newspaper Nordlys, about the incident that happened in Troms for some time ago. I think it's going to be tingly when we from the pulpit of Stortinge reprimand the underlying offices out in the government when they – almost for once – follow the rules that the Stortinge have drawn up. That's what the state of the labour market did in the state of Troms. They were strictly in line with the legislation drawn up by the Stortinge for support in bringing so-called disadvantaged groups into the labour market. Then it is wrong to use it as an example that the labour market seat does not do its job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e337	Yeah, maybe it's some of the things that prevent creativity, that you get so strict about following a code. In fact, the type of enterprise that here would like to receive the 25 refugees, elsewhere in the country – with the blessing of Aetat – triggers that kind of project. It underlines to me the importance of more actors in the field, and that Aetat's strict perception of legislation is not the case, but that what is at stake is to get the most hands in the job and to facilitate the conditions for those who want to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e342	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e345	This is an important matter for all those involved, and the Progress Party sees it as very important to get work for more disabled people than we have been able to do in recent years. After today's situation, there are a lot of people with disabilities who want to get into value-creating work, and it's actually a shame that society hasn't arranged so that it's possible, when we see that there's a significant need for increased labour in Norway. In this context, there is reason to think about what kind of instruments we can put in. The proposal under consideration today is supported by the Progress Party. We believe that this is a good tool, given that until now this has not worked as we in our party would have preferred it to work. There was a hearing yesterday when the lack of labour was the main theme, and it is very interesting to see that we actually have a great untapped potential, as we have disabled people who want to contribute to their own function and to be value-creating to society. I am disappointed that the majority does not follow up on the Right proposal. The Progress Party is following the proposal to the Right and it seems to me to be a very good proposal. The fact that Aetat still has a monopoly is not good enough. I hope that we will later get an embellishment in this area, and that the intentions of the proposal that exists, sooner or later, will have a chance. All in all, this is really about ensuring better employment services for these groups, and that's the whole point. In this way I am not in doubt that the proposal is absolutely justified and a good instrument. I can only regret that the majority do not agree with me in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e358	Before the President goes to the next speaker, the President will ask if it was Ivar Østberg who was going to make suggestions. There is a proposal in the vote. I don't know who's going to take it up, if Erna Solberg's going to do it now when she's going to have the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e361	Erna Solberg does it when she has the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e368	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e371	Let me start by taking up the proposal so I won't forget it when I go down. I address the minority proposal referred to in the vote, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right. This proposal is one of several proposals that the Right has addressed that is linked to the major challenge we face in dealing with the shortage of labour in the future. We have identified what may be the greatest challenge facing our society in the years to come, and we believe that the open hearing held yesterday by the municipal committee fully confirms. We believe that this situation needs to be met with a wide range of measures and has pointed out in connection with the presentation, among other things. of the proposal on labour immigration in Document No. 8:4 for 2000-2001 that one of a wide range of other measures is to improve the dissemination of the labour reserve or the labour force we currently have in our society that is not in use. It's a diverse set of forces. There are people who are disabled in a classical sense. There are people who are occupationally disabled because they may lack language and are not well qualified to enter the labour market, and there are people who may also feel that they are discriminated against by employers because things and qualities that you do not actually have but are part of a bit of prejudice among many in our society. Immigrants as well as disabled people are exposed to it. Having been in the municipal committee for three and a half years and in doing so, many people engaged in labour market measures and working to get them into better employment and to get a lower proportion of people who are more or less continuous out of the labour market, my clear view has been that there is a problem of insufficient flexibility with regard to measures. There is a problem that good ideas do not fall into the system, and we have therefore had to go to the intervention several times from the Storting to ensure such good actions. We have done so explicitly in budgetary positions by a majority on the Grand Duchy in repeated cases. I don't like it. I really don't think it should be my role as a wholesaler, but as long as you see that action on measures is going through this, measures that prove to have good effect, but that don't fit in the booths, or that have an operator that doesn't get along well with Aetat, it becomes a problem. The proposal we have promoted is based on a large-scale pilot project. It's not a big revolution that's going to last, but it's a trial project that opens up to people who have good ideas, that maybe we can try these good ideas. Then I've pointed out four fields that are clear areas where we see that there have been problems. It's in the setting. And we see opportunities. We believe that we should apply the reform we adopted from 1 July with temporary work and renting on a wider front, including for those who are disadvantaged, for example. by agreeing and working with different rental and temporary employment areas. We know that there are organisations and trade unions who want to work on this, but who may need to get the opportunity to keep the wage subsidy with their clients out of work. We believe that there is a variety of organisations and measures that can be used, and what I think is strange, is that the Workers' Party will not use this, of some fear that it will challenge Aetat. If Aetat is as good as the Workers' Party says it is, and if it has all of these complex elements that the Workers' Party says are so important to get a good employment service, these test projects will show that we have nothing to pick up. But why are you so afraid to start these trials? Could it be that Aetat is not good enough in some areas or that Aetat can learn? I think it's an incredible denial of learning to go against starting such an experiment. I'm glad that the Center Party, although they don't want to be on the premises, says that they want a limited attempt with local actors. Very many of the actors I've been away from will be such typical local actors. So I mean that as we get back suggestions, it could be possible to bring them in. But I think, in principle, that we should also use the players who came to the market after the reform on 1 July last year. But the party that has largely stood in this room and said that Aetat should be a qualification seat for the disadvantaged is Right. We are the ones who have said that they should downgrade everything else, that they should not be involved in payment services, that this is their primary task. So now the Workers' Party says that it's so important that it's just Aetat that can get to do it. But Aetat does so much different, and we mean the focus has been away from this for a long time. We believe that statistics show that we have too few successful measures to get people out of work. Then we have to try new forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e388	Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e394	I'm getting more and more confused about the representative Erna Solberg. Now she hasn't defended Aetat most in this room, and after her speech to judge, she has a complete panic when the word "Aetat" is mentioned. It is not that Aetat does not have enough measures. The ratio is that there are not enough employers to accept these measures. This proposal concerns competition in respect of the measures. It's a competition to get your hand into the treasury. That's what this is all about. Aetat does his job. They have people on the job, but we don't have enough employers to take these measures. Then Erna Solberg could tell us how to do it. The only thing she mentions is a couple of small examples that she comes up with, that some organizations say that if they get a paycheck with them, they're going to get them to work. I'm not so sure that's right, but we'll see if Erna Solberg has the solution. This whole proposal is permeated by, as it is claimed, that Aetat does not do his job. They do their job, but they cannot get these out of work, because employers do not accept them. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e401	The last sentence I'm not sure had passed the logic exam, namely that Aetat works, but we don't have enough employers to accept the measures, that there's something wrong with the employers, and that the measures are all right. If it's the way the Workers' Party thinks it is, it's fine. Some of us don't think the measures are good enough, because we don't see the results of those measures. Then we believe that we have to go into a learning phase. I understand that the representative Leif Lund has trouble perceiving the essence of this, because he obviously believes that we are violently Aetate-enemies. We're not. We have always said that Aetat should qualify the disadvantaged workers in the labour market: the long-term unemployed, the disabled and the disabled. That's the primary problem. Then they have to fade the rest of what they're going to do, because it works in the market otherwise. It's been our main debate before. It is the Workers' Party that has intended to have a chain of measures that concerns all things in the labour market. At that stage, we think, the disabled often fall through. At the same time, we say that there are many good measures in Aetat. There are many measures, but they do not all fit. It may be that there are other people and other organizations that can do this a little better, and that can teach Aetat something. Sometimes it is that this is personal and that the learning transfer is not there. But if you have an experiment like this. 25 people with disabilities come into permanent employment because they have had a very good person who is enthusiastic during a trial period, this is also a good result. You shouldn't be afraid of it. A good result is something you may not always get when we have everything organized in public. But the most important thing for me is, and it surprises me, that the Labour Party apparently, based on the hearing we had yesterday, may say that everything is good, when the conclusion to the hearing we had yesterday is that we have a formidable challenge ahead of us in getting those who are not at work to work. Then we have to supplement it with, for example. little labour immigration. But it is amazing that the Workers' Party does not see that new thoughts are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e412	SV has been by Aeta's strongest defenders and the sharpest critics. We want a large-scale pilot scheme. What is now on the table, on the other hand, is a proposal to set up a new system, in which we have to return the order role that Aetat has been given for enforcement measures to the social security office, so that the social security office can establish cooperation with others who will compete with Aetat. This is a relatively comprehensive, difficult and expensive system, and it's hard for me to see that we're going some way with it. I wonder if the proposer has carefully considered that someone needs to have order competence when it comes to outsourcing to private, both private and, where appropriate, non-profit organisations to realise the return measure. How has the proposer intended to exercise this competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e417	I agree that a relevant objection to parts of the projects that we outline in Document No. The 8 proposal is that we have to discuss how the order role should be related to this. The proposal itself is about launching a large-scale trial project, based on different ideas, and we have not limited ourselves to necessarily representing the order/execution role in all areas. But we believe that it is fully possible for Aetat to have a general order role in some of these projects, for example. in relation to the use of rental and temporary employment agencies, to define, where appropriate, a group of people who are to be tried to be provided with, or provided with, vicariates and practice in the labour market – that a set of measures and a group of people to be tested in a project can then be transferred. This is also in line with what some of the disabled people's organisations actually asked in their hearing opinion when we dealt with the Blaalid committee, that these companies should also have the opportunity to effectively disseminate people with professional disabilities. It is clear that some of the problem in Norway in terms of adopting things here from many other countries that have chosen to adopt a much more competitive attitude on these issues is that all reintroduction is within Aetat, and that we do not separate the order and delivery role in particular. But I would like to point out that there are some good projects from the past, where not necessarily the order problem was reduced, but that was one of the reasons why this project came up, among other things. the possibility of marketing candidates to the local business community. Being able to work intensively requires people with very close contact with it. Some of them may work in different types of organisations than in Aetat, and that's where you have to connect them to get them to. There are, therefore, differences in the outlines we have made, from marketing measures for some groups of people with disabilities to those who are going to do this and those who are going to make individual plans. Because we have not wanted to limit or limit what you can try to do, but we have wanted to outline some of the main ideas in this Document No. The 8th proposal. I think objections are relevant with regard to some of the projects outlined, but far from the main idea of using all the forces to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e430	There are many ways that there is an ideological difference between the approach of the Labour Party and the Right in this matter, but for my part, I think the Right's touching care for the entry of the disadvantaged groups into the labour market is almost pathetic. The experience from, and the thread of, the open hearing of the municipal committee yesterday is that there is no lack of creativity on the provider's side, but we lack employers who want to hire people who don't have 120 pst. performance. That's the big problem. The working party would like to admit that Aetat can improve in many areas. It was just the Workers' Party that initiated lifelong learning, so we actually have experience that we all need to update knowledge along the way. The problem with Aetate is in many ways that the bulk of the population has not been willing to make sufficient resources available to enable Aetate to carry out even better work in relation to precisely those groups on which the Right appears to be involved in Document No. The 8th proposal. Our experience regarding the Right is precisely that they want individuals to have even greater opportunities to intervene in the state's money. That's where the big difference between the Workers' Party and the Right is. We believe that we must have a much more restrictive attitude to that phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e441	The working party obviously has problems in justifying why they are against using good forces, and therefore chooses to be offensive by saying that what you want is to privatize or that people are going to get their hands into the honey pot, which is the concept that is common to use. I did not hear the statements that Odd Eriksen said he heard yesterday at the open hearing, except for what the Workers' Party's scouts said, namely that there is a huge shortage of employers. The problem is, of course, that if you want to have a competitive business, you will also be concerned that the employees can bear the cost of employing them. It is a framework condition that will always be there in everything that is not protected. So the question is, what should we do to get people who may not bear all the costs, but where it is actually much better for our society and for the individuals who are individuals to be in work than to be in social security, rehabilitation or other arrangements? There are a number of measures, such as: the need to subsidise employers with, for example: wage subsidies, which are among the measures listed on the right to mobilise more labour. But there may also be some prejudices in employers against hiring people, because Aetat is not good enough to market people, because Aetat doesn't have the contact device to get people into work, while others might. I've seen examples. In Bergen we have an old iron and metal leader who I'm sure everyone in the Workers' Party knows, namely Jon Saxeide, who sits on IFOS, a work training centre. He gets people to work after they've been training with him, not necessarily because he's doing all the training, but because he knows absolutely everyone in the companies that have been organized in iron and metal, and can talk people into a workplace so they get tried. That kind of people we have to figure out if we're going to get more of these into work, so find those who know people well enough to talk them into work. And it's not always they're employed in Aetat, it could be that you have to find other ways to organize this. That's why we're so open about this proposal. We even mentioned the union, we. We don't see anything wrong because this is a job LO can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e455	Participation in the labour market must be facilitated for workers. Yesterday, the Municipal Committee of the United Kingdom organised a hearing in which measures to address the shortage of labour were the main theme. Again, the Storting was reminded by the ring that there are available hands; there is a large group of individuals in this country who would like to use their resources in the labour market for the best of themselves and others. They need an individual planning and follow-up plan. They're not being heard and included. Aeto does a large and valuable job in this context. However, the etching process does not do enough. Maybe the rules of rigidity, maybe the rules of administration, are not too liberal. There are a number of municipalities and single companies that would like to spend more time, which would facilitate work for more people. They point out that spending here can mean activity, self-sufficiency and savings in other areas. They meet the wall in relation to Aetat. In its ideology, the right has a postponing and privatisation process, and it takes its proposal forward from that point of view. The centre party does not have the same approximation. However, we support the intention to get more people to work that is also included in this proposal. Greater flexibility is needed here to ensure that more people have access to the labour market. In Document No: The 8 proposal has been referred to as a series of examples of how one could achieve longer, integrating more into professional life with a more liberal practice. Let me add an example from Bømlo: a private company with a product that goes away, with room for disabled workers, with room for people who need a break from secondary school, with room for people who want work to get out of a drug abuse, or who need a support function in relation to psychiatry. Several individuals would have had the opportunity, for a short or longer time, to work in this enterprise, with some governmental involvement. One of the strategies for smoothing out messages is a softer workline. In this context, attempts have already been made with municipal responsibility for the activation of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, with a longer pay gap and a number of simple attempts under the Green Care network. Testing additional flexibility is required here to ensure that even more people are able to do so. Now the ministry has started a review of Aetat's operations. With the results of Kosmo State Council, there is every reason to expect a clean-up, simplification and improvement for the benefit of both many jobseekers and for all those who work today before this department, and who are probably at times frustrated by the lack of conditions. I expect the Council of State to both confirm and deepen it, and I also expect him to tell us about a rapid progress in relation to that matter. It is in the context of what I am pleased to note that the Council of State, at the majority of today, which does not include his own party, but ‘anyhow’, as we say in Rogaland, is able to launch a trial — limited in its form in relation to the proposals of the Right, but an extension of the trials already underway — which involves a more flexible employment service for people who need additional organisation and follow-up, organized in a way that allows different local actors, who are not currently involved, to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e473	We have a situation in some districts, usually a little piggy, where we have problems with geographical disability because there is a shortage of jobs. My question is, who are the local actors in such a district that can help more people get into work when we talk about geographical disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e478	Whether we are talking about geographical disability, or we are talking about other ‘exclusion’ in relation to working life, I have, by the Labour Party's side today, surprisingly recorded a lack of trust, or awareness, that there are actually local foundations, local single businesses and municipalities involved in the fact that several of their own inhabitants have the opportunity to participate in the work. And there are several examples that show that the legislation and the economic arrangements we have today are not far enough. For example, geographical inability may occur. means that a corner stone enterprise is being closed down or that there is very little variation in the type of workplace. Of course, when it comes to this issue and the people involved, a very special cross-cutting, cross-political and cross-organisational effort is needed to resolve the situation of the individual. And for all of these others, my main goal is more flexibility to reach more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e486	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e489	I have repeatedly criticised Aetat for the way in which they have managed their responsibilities for jobseekers with more extensive needs for assistance and follow-up. And SV is keen to ensure that the individual help seeker himself experiences good and caring help and guidance. It is doubtful that private enterprises and non-profit institutions have a lot to contribute to a reintroduction process. Yes, it is, in fact, that hospitation in the workplace can often only be realized in collaboration with private people. It is also often the case that non-profit institutions, associations or associations, can accept applicants for guidance in their activities. There are often forces in the community that are a salvaging force in a re-emergence action. But this case is not about releasing these cancers. This case is not about setting up self-help groups either. It is about competitively implementing the individual action plans. All remedial measures require a decision in the social security system. It is such that there is an entry-level criterion set by the Storting and that is not the entry-level criterion this proposal aims to change. Aetat manages the tasks triggered when the Social Security Office has decided that the entry criterion is satisfied. This means that this proposal will require us to reverse the transformation that has been achieved, where Aetat has taken over the tasks that the social security budget had in the past to plan and implement measures. SV does not want to re-establish the social security system with this ordering competence, therefore SV assumes that the pilot schemes put in place are directed by or channelled through Aetat. We expect that in the coming years, Aetat will show great creativity in developing the instrument of action, and in particular contribute to attempts to coordinate responsible actors. We know that many who have complex needs need the help of several actors, and that some of the problem is that these actors are not coordinated. What makes today's proposal, a sad affair, is that Aetat is in the middle of a substantial transformation of his business and should have got a unique marshall from this room to do it wisely, and to make sure that the private operators take full advantage of everything they are worth. But I feel that today the Storting will do the opposite. We're going to tell Aetat to focus on doing this – not in an untraditional way, but in an unregulated way. And I'm tracking that we're going to have a long fight about creating new driving rules for how we're going to manage re-routing processes. I think it's time-consuming and resource-depleting. And I think we can get this collaboration between public agencies and private actors by being clear about giving Aetat the role of ordering and ordering them to use all the forces that can be quality assured and that can realize the individual action plans. That is why I believe that the proposal that we are making today rather complicates this important work that Aetat has been set to do, rather than contributes to something constructive. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e501	In fact, SV is the party that has been most concerned with saving individual projects that have fallen into the scheme in relation to Aetat, and which we have repeatedly had to return to the state budget, because the projects have had the possession of people who have fit in different categories, such as the UK and the UK. Both the unemployed and the unemployed, who have fallen through here. I'm a little surprised that you think it should now be so easy to do it via Aetat instead of getting a further grasp of such good projects. One of the problems, which know, for example: The Revita project, which is one of the projects that SV has been fighting for, is that many of these projects started when there was a high amount of action, and it was a bit flexible in view of the fact that many good measures were put in place but then disappeared, and in relation to the disabled and those who have other types of schemes, it is set in line with the fact that such projects do not work. Does SV mean that we should remove all these lines and then say that you should have full flexibility in Aetat in purchasing this type of service, or does it still mean that the Storting must run in and protect the type of action that SV has been the leading exponent to maintain – directly mentioned in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e506	It is correct that SV has had to keep Aetat in mind because Aetat has not been able to release the forces that seem to be ready for use in this work. But we also believe that we have given clear signals that there has to be a change, and that we have received feedback that this conversion work is in progress. The observer will also see that the minority comment from the Workers' Party and SV says that these are schemes that we now expect Aetat to handle in a different way. In the case of Revita in particular, Revita is what I would call a self-help organization, while it's a private enterprise. If the proposal for a pilot scheme today were to provide explicit support to self-help groups, I would have voted in favour. We didn't even have to do it through Aetat – if we hadn't wanted to. Of course, self-help groups, together with each aid seeker, can ensure that the necessary measures are economically considered in the system underpinned. But that's not what's available. What is available is a proposal for a comprehensive restructuring of our entire system. One should think about whether to use so much force so useless.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e515	In principle, there is a great deal of agreement between SV and the Central Party as to what applies to the principal idea within this field. The practice shows that the representative of the depositor Karin Andersen has also been committed to greater flexibility in terms of both support for individual measures within this field and in relation to practices in the field of legislation. My questions relate to the proposal that is going to have multiples today. You can see two ways. It can – as the representative Bjørnsen says – be seen as a very different approach to what is today’s secret to Aetat. I would remind you that this proposal is an alternative to the more open proposals of the Right. Does the representative, Mr Bjørnsen, think that attempts at municipal communication of social clients, the extension of payroll and green care have not contributed to the employment of more people? Can he not see this proposal as an incentive for additional flexibility in Aetat and in sum for greater flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e522	I'm afraid it's not like that. All the measures that Meltweit Kleppa mentions, it is fully possible to realize 100 pst. through Aetat. As the representative Meltveit Kleppa says, we have been warm defenders of special measures that have proved very appropriate, and on which Aetat has not wanted to cooperate. We are disappointed with that, and we have repeated that. I think that's understood. That is why I – and SV – want the pilot schemes now to be channelled through Aetat, and that there is no alternative way. It has to be concluded that the Stortinget sees itself well served to grant individual projects within Aetat's field of activity. We want Aetat to be able to do this by himself, but we don't think Aetat is getting better at doing this by taking responsibility from them. On the contrary – the responsibility must lie with Aetat, and we must point out how we expect Aetat to manage the responsibility. It must be the role of the Big One.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e531	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e534	This issue is about how to mobilise all the good forces to use the human resources that are currently unused, and the people who today want to be used. I have been in quite a few debates where this has been a topic, but it has been discussed by our social committee. I would like to refer to a decision that was taken almost a year ago, on 22 February: ‘The Government is asking for the promotion of a comprehensive communication on sick leave and disability pensions, including the assessment of instruments, knowledge, competences and resources, cooperation between agencies, such as social security, employment and health services, employment and the sick.’ To this end, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has replied that they will see the decision in the follow-up to the Sandman Selection. This is a piece of it. The selection that was put down gave the setting on 15 September last year, and it will be sent out on a ring. The left has repeatedly pointed out the need for cooperation between the various etats, the social services, the social security system and the labour market seat. We get a lot of impressions that this cooperation doesn't work, so I'm very much in agreement with the representative Erna Solberg that there's no need for cooperation now, now needs coordination. It doesn't help if you have a public service office where these etats are collected. I think you need to coordinate them, and then you'll get a good orderer's skills. With coordination, a large number of resources will also be freed. In a debate here in the United Kingdom last Tuesday, what one does for all these 70,000 children living in poverty today was discussed. I was a little surprised that the Minister of Social Affairs was so afraid that one would get social security benefits that made it pay to be insured. People don't want to be saved. People want to give you an effort, they want to get started. The Left supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Right, and subsidiaryly the proposal of the Centre Party. I think this needs flexibility, the need for creativity. We believe that private operators can have better contact with the local business community and use it. I have a newspaper clipping here, dated January 4, 2000, from Haugesunds Avis. It says there's a guy who's had five years of fight to get a new job. He says that when one ignores the professional right of reintroduction, the employment office has not given him one job offer during the period of illness. But the private set up, the social office and the municipality set up – and he got a job opportunity. He's got a steady job, and he works very well. The alternative was dissatisfaction. So that there is a need for major changes, the need for greater competition directed at Aetat and the need for better coordination, not cooperation, there is no doubt. The left, therefore, supports the minority proposals and hopes that one can start a work where one can have coordination to a greater extent than cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e558	I think it's very nice with such debates. That's absolutely brilliant, because then we get to focus on some of the things that are our hardest problem. I have to be honest and say that I think it is through a document no. Eight proposals in their own right have considerable ambitions, to make significant changes without proper case preparation in relation to the areas of work into which they are addressed. I wish that the Storting had chosen a different approach to these problems than through specific decisions without prior assessments of which actions work best, before deciding a direction. I should also like this discussion and these proposals to have been up in the context of the budget that we have just adopted. That's where you cut 20 million. kr in Aetat's budget, while this statement states that "the Committee will highlight the importance of a review of Aetat's action in general, and that Aetat must be given sufficient resources and skills to assist people with disabilities in a better way than at present". There's kind of no connection. At one moment, in the budget, the money and resources available are being reduced, and the Council of State is required to carry out a rather dramatic review of Aetat in order to have an organisation that enables us to solve the problems — have an organisation capable of doing so — and at the same time have good resource management within the financial framework. And then you pick up a little bit more without seeing it in relation to the budget. But of course I'll do what I can to satisfy what seems to be the majority decision here. I'm trying to make experiments, I'm trying new ways, but I'm not trying to give priority to wage subsidies within the overall framework that you have at your disposal, as well as to any different organisation in this country, which will then be a means of getting people to work without having undergone the necessary professional individual assessments that are directed at the individual job-seekers. We have 60,000 people who in a year go on action in this area, through Aetat. But our main problem is not that we don't have competition on these measures, the main problem is that we don't get these people into work. And it's not the flexibility and the rules that prevent it, it's because today's working life is so tough that employers choose not to recruit this type of workforce. So I'd like to be able to try to get this done, both through alternative communication, through temporary work arrangements and – I would like to say – what we can do about action. Because we need this resource. The biggest problem today is that healthy people are being pushed out of work as 55-year-olds because they can't hang out with them! That's one of the big challenges we're facing. It must not be the case that we are going to develop wage subsidy models where the state takes an overall responsibility to pay the salaries to people to keep them in work. So you have to have your tongue right in your mouth right here. And then you have to be willing, as the representative of Meltveit Kleppa says, to do some experiments, try something in a different way, but you have to remember that the people who are disabled by professional choice, those who are unretired, those who are ill and those who are social clients also have an individual social need that they need to be satisfied. You have to make a pass, an assessment of what will be best for them, both in terms of work and in relation to a -- we can call it -- the construction of their own social life, so that they can manage their future. We can't make any losses that lead to these people becoming caste balls because we want to experiment with different forms of action. So the professional assessment must be there. I'd like to be involved in developing new models, but then we need resources to do it. So I hope there are brighter times for the labour market and the economic resources there in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e594	As I see this case, it's an attempt to lift some tasks from Aetat to others who might want to take a look at just the area in which we're all concerned, to get the disabled to work. As I said in a line earlier here, I've had a lot of meetings with the disabled people's organisations. Unfortunately, the review tone – and I must say as new in this committee – is that Aetat does not give them priority as a labour force, that they are not taken seriously, that they are put at the back of the queue, also in the Aetat context, and that they do not have a chance in the sea to see what they can do. That's the review tone that I've at least heard. Yesterday we had a whole day of work immigration as a theme, and one thing is certain: we need more residual work capacity into production. Does the Council of State have no understanding that Aetat could need a little competition in order to strengthen itself in relation to the disabled? What is the Council of State really worried or worried about if private, same kind, got access to and actually managed to get some disabled workers into work? It would be a plus on all budgets, and nothing negative for Aetat or anyone else either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e605	Of course, there are single-handeds among all of these thousands where it can be hard to understand why they get that exact treatment. I get a lot of letters, and I get a lot of enquiries from both Aetat local, Aetat County and Aetat Labour Directorate, where they ask to be explained why they and those arrangements have been made. Sometimes it has been wrong – it could have been possible to do something better to help a single person. But after all, as I said before, we have 60,000 people a year on different measures to qualify them for work. It shows that public Norway is taking this seriously and is trying to do something about it. I can mention other examples. Those who are the most angry in the social office are those who are most dependent on social assistance to survive, so there are some contexts here that we also need to be aware of when we relate to the criticism that comes. I don't feel like this is a matter of lifting tasks out of Aetat, because it's Aetat that is supposed to finance this. There is nothing in the proposal that has been put forward here, that funding should come from anywhere else, and that is the budget that the Storting itself adopts, and the distribution of the various measures, which provide the framework available for the various measures. If you take something out of Aetat – and that’s when Stortinget assesses whether they can do it – you take out not only tasks, but also the money. And then you have to be quite sure that you have made a proper assessment and a thorough case preparation for those who are involved before making exclusive decisions. But as I said before, I don't mind trying to combine the skills and resources of the labour market with the voluntary organisation life and others to improve. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e616	When I heard Kosmo's main post here, I heard a completely different State Council than the one who wrote a letter to the Committee in connection with the examination of this Document No. The 8th proposal. If it had been the Cosmo that stood on the interlocutory here, who had signed the letter that the committee received on the evaluation of this proposal, we would have no need to say that we think that the Council of State had a very passive attitude. But it was a very passive attitude in the letter that the committee received, to the great challenge we are facing. With an open attitude that the Cosmo now expresses, when you de facto have a committee majority against having a lot of trial plans and doing a lot, it might have been different in many ways. I would like to say a few words about the proposal itself. Our proposal is open. We have no faith that this proposal will be implemented tomorrow. It is clear that a proposal of principle for the launch of a pilot scheme will necessarily have to go into a further concrete and exploratory phase. It'll always be like that, and we have a long experience from it. As for the bureaucratic objections to just how the proposal is and the lack of case preparation, I would say that it goes on that bit that the Stortinget draws some main lines, and then the Government comes back with a feedback on how we can implement what is Storting's actual intention, and it would have a great opportunity to influence how to proceed, if our primary proposal had been adopted. Now it is also explicitly possible in relation to the proposal that is being adopted. With regard to the issue of competition in relation to Aetat, I would like to say that there have been some good projects that have proved to be more successful than Aetat. The document includes, inter alia: a project which was in search until 1998. It was an individual placement centre where they made individual plans for jobseekers. It was a foundation under the authority of the municipality. Even employers from other areas called them because they were so good at matching jobseekers with jobs – Aetat was not able to do so – but it was closed, among other things. because the group of unemployed people was no longer so large, and they wanted to re-enter the group. It shows that there have been good measures, as the Aetate of fear has done. The replies from Aetat regarding that experiment are documented in the document proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e628	I think everyone here has said that if we are to meet these challenges in the future, we must have greater flexibility, greater opportunities for individual case handlers to make individual assessments and individual choices depending on the individual's ability to function. It is quite obvious that this should have been the case a long time ago. However, in order for the case handlers in Aetat to have that task, you have to change the rules first. One may not stand here and assume that they are to be different from the rules laid down by the Government and the Ministry as indicated. We have to change the rules first. That is why, at the hearing, we have sent a major change and simplification and convergence to a greater degree of flexibility. So when we make the changes in the rules, we can make new demands for those who work within the labour market set, in relation to what we want with flexibility. But we all assume that we're taking things in the right order, that's important, because we see when the Riksrevision reports are treated in this house, how things go with people who don't relate to the rules. Then, of course, in those areas where we have the opportunity to both experiment and try out new things, be flexible and get it done. Then we have to have good projects. It can't be that we're going to say yes to a trial project just because an organisation, a health club or anyone comes with it. We have to say yes if it's a good project and we see that it makes sense resource use. I get a lot of such applications, and to be honest: not everyone is concerned with the rational use of resources, and not everyone is concerned with the disabled, but we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e637	The involvement of the councils today, his open posture in relation to the design of trials, promises well. I think it is good that he reminds me that there are 60,000 people being served, because it tells us something about the great and important and valuable job that Aetat is doing today. I get a little worried when he says that the main problem is not flexibility. I'm going to be liberal enough to admit that it may not be the main problem, but it's a problem that flexibility is not greater, when there are so many examples that even more people could have a connection to the world of work with greater flexibility. And then I have a lot of understanding for him to point out the professional assessments that have to be done here. But then I will also stress the flexibility that is needed. I also understand his pointing of resources. Now it is such that the Council of State has put in place a review of Aetat. He could have found the means that could be used as an alternative. In any case, the level of resources is a theme of the revised national budget, and it may be possible to address this issue in that context. My question is: What progress does the Council of State now have in relation to the review of Aetat?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e648	The mission that I have received from Stortinget, and which I have outlined back to Stortinget that we should work on, is to present to Stortinget during the spring session, so that the Stortinget will be dealt with, the future organisation of the labour market parliament both centrally and locally, while describing how we are going to deal with the challenges we face in the further development of Aetat Business, i.e. the payment services within this. If, in addition to doing something to back up some proposals for new test schemes, I'm going to try to try, but I'm not sure if we can do it. The most important thing now is to make sure that the Storting adopts an organisational plan, an organisational development, where there is a connection between the resources we have available and the tasks we undertake to solve. The worst thing that can happen to Aetat in the future is that we choose too big an organisation in relation to what we have resources to do, so that we spend money on wages and administration instead of spending them on actions aimed at individuals. It's a pretty tough run both for the employees of the labour market and for the system as such to get this done so early that the Storting will go through it and deal with it for spring. But that's my ambition. Then we will see together what will be the result of the treatment in Stortinget, and next time what will be the result of the consultation round that we now have on the legislation to stimulate more flexibility. So no matter what area we're talking about, whether we're talking about unretired or we're talking about the disabled, or whether we're talking about long-term sick, there's flexibility in the system that allows us to demand people's ability to function instead of people's limitations, which is absolutely crucial if we're going to be able to achieve goals. [[President clubs]] I'm sorry it took me a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e657	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e662	The aim of the matter we are debating now is to get more people with planning and follow-up needs out in appropriate work. It is important that Aetat is open to cooperation and interaction with other actors, because the public agency has a lot to learn from them. Guidance and assessment are important keywords. Having sufficient skills to distinguish the different forms and causes of, for example, disability, and thus also seeing the opportunities, is crucial for a good outcome. In the Disability Action Plan, the aim is to achieve full participation and equal opportunities. But there's a double communication. We who suck through the life of turbot, are careful to sell our strengths and what we're good at. When we talk about people with disabilities, long-term unemployed and others who are struggling, it is an over-focused focus on problems and costs. There's going to be terrible mistakes, and it's more like discrimination than about equality. Those who need additional organisation and follow-up in the labour market also need to rely on the resources, capabilities, facilities and interests. When do you start headhunting from this group of job seekers? Sub-qualifications may be available on the workplace. Many of those in need of organization may even be excellent creators or entrepreneurs, but they do not get away with it because too many people believe that people with disabilities have a lack of skills, and ergo are the unprofessional ones. Thank you for the dyslexic Kjell Inge Smoke meeting a human being who pointed to his possibilities, on his strong side, which he should develop. We actually have a lot to learn from the experiences of Smoke, and everyone should point to their strengths if they don't see them themselves. Pilot projects are needed to promote attitudes towards people with disabilities and others in the labour market seat. It has been said that there are no jobs available. It is then possible to earmark and organise jobs in the event of new start-up! Finally, I would like to remind you that the Storting has been dealing with and adopting participation in HELIOS II for some years ago, and there is a report, the economic integration of the disabled, and it can be recommended. Unfortunately, a Norwegian translation as part of a project has been described as unprofessional, perhaps because the creator himself was visible disabled. It just shows that it's part to clean up, and it's really about respect for human dignity. It is so simple and at the same time so difficult in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e686	I can find a reason for a short final comment. It is directly related to the Council of State’s outline in relation to progress. He's going to file a case in ours, and when he used the expression – I think he said – that he wasn't sure if he could give a sketch for an experiment, I'll remind you that when it comes to that experiment, for which there is a plurality today, it's called in the proposal for a decision that the Government asks in the context of the review of Aetat's work to submit a proposal for a trial, etc. There's a strong expression from Stortinget's page about getting a proposal for a trial parallel to the review of Aetat. So here's probably the Biggest thing to follow in relation to the government's priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e707	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group of parties and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e718	Today, when we deal with the Government's communication to the Great Government on national minorities, it is the first time that the Grand Duchy deals with a comprehensive review of the principles that will underpin the state's policy towards Jews, women, spaces and the Romani people and forest fins – people who have maintained their identity despite and not because of such support can expect a cultural society. That is why it was a special day when the notification was submitted, with the Government's unreserved apology for the way these cultural people have been treated by, or with the support of, the Norwegian authorities. That's why it's also a brand day today, when the Storting joins the confessions and regrets and declares the country free from systematically oppressive policies on the part of the big society. Now the policy needs to be chiseled and to promote the remedial measures. However, it is disappointing that no single national Parliament can support the good intentions. All parties believe that this settlement with a sad side of our history has been ethically correct, and the majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that this settlement is also a prerequisite for progress. The majority are prepared and intend to develop a comprehensive and forward-looking policy towards the national minorities in Norway. There is an expressed willingness to chisel a policy for a future without discrimination and without abuse and negation — a policy for equality, for respect, for diversity and for peculiarity, and for the transparency and visibility of cultural diversity represented by national minorities. The same majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that the notification is a good starting point for this work. The government points to measures for school and education and to the protection of culture, language and identity and to document the diverse culture of national minorities as a follow-up to the notification. It is important to stress that the different groups have very different needs and that, therefore, minority policies cannot be consistent. Just this moment cannot be emphasised clearly enough. It's at this point that the majority of the committee and the minority divide layers. It is at this point that the Progress Party denies its name and claims that it must be up to the individual to assert his right and take care of his interests. They are not able to see the difference between the individual’s right to self-expression in his own language and culture and that a society is responsible for documenting and helping to preserve the expression of minorities. It is also disappointing that it has not been possible to bring together a majority for the timing of any key actions, rather to fix time when the Government has obligations to promote its proposals or a draft for progress. The proposal by the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party that the Government be asked to submit an obliging plan for the implementation of the measures contains, with the timing of implementation and progress of the individual actions and projects in the budget for 2002, should not address problems for either enlargement or government. When there is no political will to be concrete, neither can we mark the time gap in Norwegian policy towards the national minorities that had been natural. To that, there are too many non-binding wordings, and there is a constant lack of concrete commitments. What the Storting today is invited to adopt are the good intentions. Had the Workers' Party had the will to say the same in the Stortinget as the Government more than suggests measures and timetables, today's decisions could build up and reinforce the expressed excuse. Then there was no doubt that we would make up for ourselves. It is of great importance that those who have been assaulted feel cared for, and that it is perceived as a will to settle for old injustice. This applies not least to the travellers, the tattoos. It is this group that has been subjected to the most extensive abuses and discrimination. The Roman people themselves experience the long-planned Elverum Documentation Centre as part of a settlement – the materialized excuse. Not even here, it's the majority to time-table construction start. There is a legitimate doubt about the intentions of the ruling people. I can understand their impatience, and that this room for postponement left by the Storting provides a basis for great disappointment. Like groups, national minorities do not demand much. I have mentioned the desire of the Romani people for a documentation centre. The Norwegian Women's Association has expressed a similar need for a cultural centre and is particularly concerned with women's languages, including: as a basis for making and revisiting women's cultural traditions. Forest fins are equally concerned with the establishment of a centre of expertise, including those with a significant focus on language and culture. Rome, or the gypsies, feels strictly and unfairly treated, but makes small demands in addition to being able to live as a traveller in its own way. This is also the expectation of the Jews that their religious practices do not unnecessarily encounter obstacles, and that the school system of the great community does not impose on them a teaching of Christianity that is not respected. Help to preserve, document and inform is central to all groups, as is maintaining language and ensuring communication within each minority group. Significantly more difficult is the requirement for damages and legal compensation. In addition to being complicated and personally burdensome for the individual, such processes are resource-intensive. It is therefore sought to record that the system of free legal advice and free legal assistance in cases where the public is a counterparty has still not expanded and that the majority of the Grand Duchy does not find it possible to ask the Government to ensure good and equal treatment by instructing the county officials to conduct an equal and liberal practice in such cases. Similarly, we were unable to establish a majority for a separate compensation scheme for persons who were subjected to forced sterilisation according to a model from Sweden. I fear that the unreserved apology may quickly lose its power if the government does not show greater action than the Stortinget has shown. And I have to admit that in this case I attach trust to the Government's intention, and that the reason why a number of good and necessary measures do not have a majority behind me, is that the Workers' Party's big group seems to hover in the error that it is the Government that will decide, and not the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e744	It is from the case-rapporteur who has addressed a certain criticism of the Progress Party. I feel that this is a bit wrong, even though we have checked out many of the comments in the setting. And with all due respect for the commitment made by the rapporteur in this matter, it is true that we all agree with the principle of equivalence for Norwegian citizens that it is a fundamental democratic element. I don't think there's any doubt about it. However, it is now that, in principle, the case-rapporteur claims that equality between individuals, equality between groups, can be achieved almost only through the implementation of different measures and the different framework conditions for the different groups. That's where I can't agree. Discrimination on an ethnic basis, discrimination based on different national origins, in my view, is unfortunate. It could be a source of conflict. We have already seen evidence of differences today between the five-six national minority groups we have in Norway, and also between other minority groups in Norway. Is there really anyone who believes that more discrimination could dampen such contradictions? And since there has been an all-round red thread in the statements of the rapporteur that a person must be discriminated against in order to achieve equality and non-discrimination, I would like to challenge the rapporteur on that very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e751	The differences that exist between people in a people will live. What we're talking about here is about a small people having the opportunity to preserve their language and culture. It is such that the large community has a small cost of, for example, making textbooks in Norwegian for students at school. The cost per person Students would be very extensive if we were to make school books in female. And if a halt and one that is not a limp are to go the same distance and we want both to achieve goals well and not quite different, a few discriminations must be done. It may not be that it is discriminatory to give a halt to a wheelchair if appropriate. And that's what this is all about. It is important in a cultural society to cultivate the inequalities, but then those who need help to cultivate their peculiarity need help to do so. And that's where the Progress Party makes consistent mistakes. The idea of the Progress Party is that the market should control this in the way of the market, but the market is completely unsuitable to help minorities retain their peculiarity and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e760	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e763	As the rapporteur said, the communication we are discussing today deals with the policy towards minorities in Norway. The message is not about dating, as these are considered to be indigenous peoples and have their own law and law. The size deals with the annual report of Sameting every year, and the Stortinget deals with a statement of principle about the meeting every four years. The Workers' Party agrees that this Communication represents the first comprehensive review of the principles underpinning national minority policy, and that is an important milestone in itself. This is the first step in policy-making towards the national minorities in Norway, and we now have a good policy platform. One of the most important points in the Communication is that it states that Norway has a long history as a diverse society, and shows that there are many ways to be Norwegian. It is an important recognition today, where we stand in a situation where society as a whole is taking a great deal of distance from discrimination and racism. For the Workers' Party, the starting point for all policies is that cultural diversity is enriching to the community, and this is especially true when faced with minority groups that we know and see being discriminated against and oppressed. We'll never try to understand the abuses against the minorities. I think each of us in the inner knows what is the cause of some missteps. We know that immigration and the presence of minorities in society have always put our tolerance to the test, so I think it is particularly important that we learn from our own history when designing today's immigration policy. Thus, the message is important for all of us, and not just for the individual groups concerned. We're going to fight similar future events, and we're going to be able to apologize for the missteps we've done. It's important to learn from past mistakes. I am pleased that the Committee joins the Government's regret of the gross abuses committed against the Roman people, the tattoos/travelers, thus supporting the establishment of a centre for documentation and communication of culture and history to the Roman people at the Glomdal Museum in Elverum. The aim is to document and communicate history and culture to a people who have lived in Norway for hundreds of years, but who have been slightly alerted in a positive sense. The planned exhibition will focus on the history of the Roma population and their own culture, while a smaller part of the exhibition will focus on the attitudes and actions of the big society towards this minority. The museum will identify what a minority is and contribute to the increased knowledge of abuse and repression and increased tolerance and understanding of those who are different. This is our way of apologizing, even though we know that many people don't think it's satisfactory. I also noticed that the case-rapporteur disagreed with the progress of this museum, but it is well mentioned that it will be launched in 2002. I think that is reasonable when we are already in 2001. Furthermore, it is good to distance itself from the policy that has been pursued that the Committee supports the Government’s involvement in the implementation of the Copenhagen Women’s Day plans in Porsanger. The Committee concludes that, regardless of the background, everyone should have equal opportunities, rights and obligations to participate in society and to use their resources, and that racism and discrimination are contrary to our fundamental values and must be actively countered. A political anchoring of these values is important. It is an important principle in the idea that the general arrangements we have in the country should also include national minorities. This has not been a matter of course for all years. The majority of the Committee also points to the importance of implementing certain specific measures for the conservation of languages and culture, such as: by teaching in a woman/Finnish language and by providing specific support to a woman/Finnish newspaper. It is not appropriate to cut off all such measures, and I am therefore pleased that the majority sees this need. As I said at the outset, this Communication represents the first comprehensive review of the principles to be used as the basis for national minority policy. It's an important milestone in itself. Let's view this as a first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e792	The representative Leif Lund expressed joy at the fact that we now have the principles of a comprehensive policy, and underlined early in his speech and finally that we have taken a first step. The Labour Party got, as I see it, rightly criticising the case rapporteur for not being willing to say anything about when you're going to take the next steps, and how. And my question to the representative Leif Lund is: what progress does the Labour Party want in the Stortinget, and in what way do you want to follow up, so that it becomes not only principles and words, but also action?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e799	I am, in fact, a little uncertain about what to answer to this, because there was nothing concrete about the example of the representative of Østberg. But it's clear that the Storting is at all times related to the budgets adopted in this house, and that's progress enough. We have said many fine words, and we have made many fine principles in this house, but when this is going to be translated into practice in the budgets, it is not always proportionate. With regard to the rapporteur's remark about the museum, I said that it is stated that this should start in 2002, and I expect it to be done. And of the other issues also mentioned in the Communication, there are some measures that one expects the Government to follow up. It is true, as the representative of Østberg says, that there is no specific reference to the time, time or date on which we are going to implement this. But, as I said, we have the budgets in the house to deal with, and I assume that there will be plenty of opportunity for both Østberg and others to address matters concerning national minorities during the budgetary procedure that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e807	It's the same ratio. The Government’s Communication states that a target is to realise the documentation centre in 2002. There was an attempt to get the Committee and thus the Storting to say that a request from the Government to implement the action in 2002 and several aspects mentioned in the Communication. And so there's a difference between the government reporting to the Stortinget that one is aiming for, and that the Storting asks the Government to make sure it does. What the Workers' Party has done in this matter is to question whether what the Government intends to do, is actually being realised, because it does not know before the budgetary procedure for 2002. A clear marshall from Stortinget, on the other hand, has considerably more weight. And that's this difference that maybe here in the house might seem theoretical, but that when you're going to understand it out there, it's pretty important. Today Stortinget has not been able to do anything significantly other than apologize. And it would have been small, very small, that was going to – and it's still not too late – to ensure that we get a more binding tempo plan that feels good for them the excuse is addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e814	As I said in my reply to Østberg, I expect the government to come forward with this in 2002. It is true, as you say, that it is said that they take an ‘sight at’ construction start in 2002, but I expect the centre to come in 2002. I believe that taking a look at is a strong enough expression, and as I said in my previous reply to the representative of Østberg, there are budgetary procedures in this house, and it is possible to come back to this. I have to say it so that I aim for this to start in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e819	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e824	The rapporteur has given a good and thorough presentation of the document, and I share his view. The Bondevik Government provided St.meld. No 21 for 1999-2000, Human dignity in the centre – Action Plan for Human Rights. One of the measures proposed and endorsed by the Stortinget was to promote a large-scale notification of national minorities during 2000. The objective of this policy was to achieve a comprehensive policy in the area of national minorities. The size gave its setting to St.meld. No 21 November 2000. And the government promoted St.meld. No 15, which we are dealing with today, about the national minorities on December 8, 2000, i.e. a button month later. The government shall be in favour of a rapid follow-up to the decision of the Grand Duchy. I think one of the most important things the government is doing in this big message is unreservedly apologizing for the abuses against the Romani people and apologizing for the research process that has affected all the national minorities. As I have already pointed out, the Christian People's Party is concerned about the concrete measures and not just words – we are dedicated to getting a timetable. That is why the Christian People's Party so strongly asks the Government in the 2002 budget to present a binding action plan. This does not mean that everything will be done in the budget for the autumn, but that means that there will be more than words, we need a binding action plan. I am therefore amazed that the Labour Party cannot participate in asking for such a binding timetable. I'm also amazed at the party of progress, which in the exchange of lines here has expressed that you want to treat everyone the same way. In other areas, the Progress Party is based on people's needs, not least when discussing health policy. Thus, Norway has conducted some brutal research policies, and justice vis-à-vis national minorities requires a policy of different actions in dialogue with and according to their needs. Does not the Progress Party see that their position can support ethnic equality, not ethnic discrimination? I am disappointed that we do not have more concrete measures in relation to women. We have shown in the statement that the Government itself has pointed out that the Trom County Municipality with its county plan will be a supporter in the government's work for the female population and culture. The Women's Culture Centre in Nordreisa, scheduled to start construction in 2002, sent an application for state participation to its Labour Party rapporteur in Nordreisa. We are disappointed that it is not a majority to ask for concrete action. Finally, the Roman people have suffered a lot. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the government's follow-up to the former Councillor Queseth Haarstad's apology against the abuses against this people. Several people have approached me. They're telling us about a destiny where they feel like they're now sitting on the rib. They've never been allowed to go to school, they've been taken from their mother, their siblings, they've lost their childhood, when they met at school, they met with a call to fill out a moving form. They don't have the courage to join the Roman people's organizations. The Glomdal Museum is OK, but it doesn't take into account what many people in the Romani people want: a social security to live off, to live a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e839	The progress party has chosen to be outside of most committee comments in the St. Announcement setting. No 15 on national minorities, and alternatively refers to the general comments of the fraction. However, it is not in any way in the absence of respect for any of the national minorities or minority groups mentioned in the vote. The general comment of the Progress Party shows that the basic view of the party is that all Norwegian citizens should be treated as much as possible in Norwegian society, both now and in the future. The Progress Party does not believe that a policy of its own for any national minority is necessarily the best thing for the future. We should all have the same duties and rights in society, regardless of any group or cultural background. This is a vision that is underlined by all the parties, I point out that in a committee comment, among other things. reads that: ‘Norwegian society is based on respect for human rights and democratic principles’. And then it says, ‘Every person living in Norway, irrespective of their background, shall have equal rights, duties and opportunities in all parts of society.’ After all, we all fully agree with these general guidelines on non-discrimination. The principle of equivalence is a fundamental element in the social view of the Progress Party, and therefore we consider it desirable to steer away from political attempts to design schemes that result in special treatment for people from some definite group membership – whether it is ethnic, cultural or otherwise. And for my part, it's hard to imagine that it's an advantage to design a separate policy to preserve a particular culture or language for all those groups that will eventually be considered as national minorities in Norwegian society. It could be a lot of people. I therefore believe that one should be very careful to believe that it would be sensible to pursue a kind of specific policy for residents in Norway belonging to a particular national minority. And as I said instead, we will have more such national minorities within the borders of the state of Norway. A policy of its own based on economic or other forms of state support to one national minority group rather than another minority group is negative, because this can often provoke conflicts between groups, and thus very little is achieved with such a policy. Therefore, the principle of full non-discrimination should be applied as far as possible by the State. Of course, all minority groups, national or other, have the right to take care of themselves in their own language and culture, but this should therefore preferably be their own responsibility and not a state responsibility. I therefore fundamentally disagree with the view that non-discrimination can only be achieved by means of discrimination, because that is in fact what is the general thrust of this case. I shall conclude by saying that we in the Progress Party have full respect for the national minorities' natural right to assert their own language, their own identity, their own culture. But once again: this must first of all be an independent responsibility for the groups involved, and it should not, as I see it, become a binding state responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e865	I feel that the Progress Party is concerned about all the many minorities we gradually get, and that costs can be too large if they are given the right to retain their own language, unless they do it on their own. Does not the Progress Party, which has, after all, been a part of complaining about the abuses against the Roma people, see that the Norwegian big community has taken away from the national minorities we are dealing with today, rights, and that we have a duty to rectify these things? In today’s Norway, we have language teaching in a number of languages. In the 1950s it was associated with punishment if a Norwegian teacher in Finnmark spoke Sami in the schoolroom. Doesn't the Progress Party see that it may be absolutely necessary to correct the mistakes we've made over the hundreds of years we've had these five nationalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e872	We have said that in the case of the Roma people in particular, as evidence can be found that there has been a serious infringement against, we can all share in regretting this and doing all we can to correct the very serious thing that has, after all, happened. Nevertheless, as far as the line to me is concerned, I would like to say: we are all Norwegians, there is no doubt about it, and then, in my view, the principle of non-discrimination can be the best and most applicable in order for us all to be part of the Norwegian community and to be able to operate with the same rights. Equal treatment means that all Norwegian citizens shall enjoy the same rights to publicly funded welfare services, all shall be equal to the law, and otherwise no policy shall be pursued which favours individuals or groups of people unfairly at the expense of other groups. Such principles underlie my whole view in this context. Finally, I would like to say that the six national minorities we are actually talking about — that is, that together is also a national minority — have been largely integrated as part of Norwegian society. As I said at the outset, we are all Northmen! And shouldn't it be like this? Isn't it an advantage that it's like this? I think it's an advantage for any society that everyone has a sense of identity with the country they live in, that one doesn't start to believe that one might belong to something that's outside the country you're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e881	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e884	The right has joined the main features of St.meld. No 15 and is thus part of the majority that agrees most of the time in today's vote. The concept of national minorities has found here its natural delineation from Norwegian history over 300-400 years. But it is also true that international minority protection based on the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of non-discrimination will, over time, be able to erase the demarcations to other minorities – in many areas at least this could be the case. From one point of view, the main measure in the message is a verbal excuse for the serious abuses the Roma people have been subjected to by or with the active support of legal Norwegian authorities. These are relationships that lie decades back in time, but it is nevertheless important to take a principle settlement with a totally unacceptable policy. There are thus natural motives for profiling a different policy that takes character at the other end of the scale, i.e. a policy of understanding and goodwill. All that has been said here about culture and contributions to bilingualism, documentation and information according to well-lit historical fact is important. The question is whether this is accurate compensation for direct assault. Of course, the answer is no. We cannot get past the fact that the actual abuses made against the Roma people in terms of inmatement and sterilisation call for a proper assessment of possible compensation on a personal basis. This was also the conclusion last time the Stortinget dealt with the question of compensation, then in relation to a possible group substitute for the Roma people. According to the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination, the background for comparison between applicants is too narrow. Interns have been compared to other interns, so they do not have the broad comparative basis in society to produce contrasts that could strengthen applications. In its opinion, the Committee asked the Government, in consultation with the Committee on the Privilege Compensation, to carry out an assessment of evidence requirements in such contexts. In such matters of real substance, limitation has only theoretical meaning. The right is also part of a minority who want the government to work out a replacement scheme according to the Swedish model at this point. Free legal aid is a topical issue related to this type of case, but the Right has not found it right to pre-clude on detailed changes to the Free Legal Aid Scheme. Here we are awaiting the proposals of the Government, as requested by the Justice Committee. It should not be interpreted as a minor emphasis on free legal aid that the Right does not include any more detailed minority comments here. Finally, we have to repeat that both the message and the setting include a number of actions within most public responsibilities. Of course, we have recorded that the Centre and SV are stressing an obligating plan for everything mentioned here, already in the context of the 2002 budget. For our part, we must support the Government Party's view that this can be too unrealistic a tempo plan, and we are therefore not in favour of this minority remark. This is based on the fact that we have already here taken both a principle and a practical settlement with what we often and rightly call a reprehensible policy. And rather, they get the different pennies that further confirm this, get to get in order in a sensible plan of progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e903	St. Report. No 15 for 2000–2001 is being incorporated into a series of initiatives taken by the central government and followed by the workers’ party government following the accession of the Storting. The notification follows the ratification by Norway in 1999 by the Council of Europe of its Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. It is also a follow-up to the central government’s human rights action plan. There was a review of policy towards national minorities one of the measures. I'd like to give the Minister of State a boost to make sure that she's done a complete review, as she has now done. I also find reason to stress the solid work that the original case manager has done, even if it is not here today. She has been leading this message in a very good way. Norway has an independent political responsibility to facilitate society so that people belonging to minorities are met with equivalency, and so that individuals can express, maintain and further develop their own identity, both as a group and as an individual. Common policies will be discussed in their own documents, the same policy towards new immigrant groups. However, the notification addresses general minority policy issues and is followed by how cultural diversity should be addressed. The Central Party believes that a follow-up to the various measures would be more concrete in form. We are in a joint observation with the Christian People's Party and the SV where we ask the Government to submit a mandatory implementation plan in the 2002 budget. It is not a proposal that all measures should be included in the 2002 budget, but it is a proposal for a follow-up plan. In both government and magnification there is a large production of words. Should this message be given to Jews, for women, for Roman people and for forest explorers, action is required. I think it would be wise for the municipal minister to take an initiative on a follow-up plan in the 2002 budget, and I would particularly like to explain that in the work on this message there are very many involved, both organisations and individuals, who have been re-rolling their stories and needs, and that it would actually be both safe and well known for them that we now have a municipal minister who provides for follow-up. Former Mayor Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad took important initiatives in this field of policy. It established Centres for Ethnic Discrimination, a centre that is currently carrying out an invaluable work. She also gave an official cause to the Roman people for the abuses that happened to them, and the government is following this up now. In the message there is a review of a story about, of the roots and traditions of minorities in Norway that are little known. There is also a very valuable overview of the status today. On the action page, it is good that everything from potential to financial support in connection with participation in meetings for damages has been discussed. I find reason to stress in particular the need to see closer to a separate compensation scheme for people who have been illegally subjected to forced sterilisation. I argued that the Council of State has noticed that both the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the SV are asking her for an order corresponding to the Swedish. To take care of language, culture and identity, archives are an important foundation. And I support the fact that the Vulnerability Register and the Tatar Register are preserved without anonymisation. I am very pleased that the Government made these decisions at the request of and in consultation with the Roman People's National Association and the Foundation Justice for the Tapers. The case spokesman has done a lot of good for the different individual measures and the broad deal that's there, and the Center Party is part of this plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e927	The big message we're dealing with today is a new job. And as has been said here by several, it's the first complete review of the principles that will underpin the state's policy towards Jews, women, rooms, the Romani people and the forest fins. The government's policy is that Norway should be a diverse and tolerant society in which it is good to live for all of us. Everyone, regardless of their background, shall have equal rights, opportunities and obligations to participate in society and to use their resources. The government sees it as an objective that the needs of national minorities should be met as far as possible within the general arrangements we have. At the same time, I would like to stress that we will work for a society that enables people belonging to national minorities to express, maintain and further develop their identity, language and culture. That is why we in this message promote different actions – precisely in order to create culture and language, actions for children and young people, actions in the field of education and measures to promote participation in society on equal terms with the majority of the population. The opening for the approval of trilingual municipal names, in Sami, female and Norwegian, can also contribute to the localisation of cultural diversity. The government has always stressed the involvement of national minorities in the work on this message. It is an important principle of minority policy that minorities should be heard and involved in matters that are important to them. This principle also applies at municipal and county level. The Storting notification makes it apparent that Norway has had minorities for a long time. But the sad picture we get of Norway's relationship with minorities up through much of history is no reason to be particularly proud of. We know, for example: the stories of kids who were coerced away from their parents because they belonged to a group that had a different way of life than the majority. The state also worked purposefully, including: in order to speak only one language, Norwegian, in this country. Therefore, the Government of this message settles with the policies of inquiry that the authorities previously conducted against the national minorities. Furthermore, the government is taking a great distance from the abuses that have been done, especially against the Roma people. Here I know that I have a broad majority on the Storting behind me, and I'm happy about that. The research policy that was pursued towards the Roma helped undermine the traditional way of life and culture. In order to remedy some of the injustices, the Government proposes the establishment of a centre for documentation and dissemination of the culture and history of the Roma people at the Glomdal Museum in Elverum, with a view to the start of construction in 2002. There is now a dialogue between the Ministry of Culture, the Municipality of Elverum and the Centre on how the progress of this matter should be. Visibility of minorities is important, both because it can contribute to the dissemination of positive images of the groups and because municipalities and other institutions can gain knowledge so that they can better adapt their offerings to the groups. The letter of information on national minorities that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has begun to issue is a piece of this work. It is also important that the school, as a knowledge and valuer, provides a true and fair picture of the national minorities in today's society and their history in Norway. This is the first complete review of the principles underpinning further work. So the most important thing about this message and the setting that is being treated here today is that they describe the principles that we are going to base on further policy. So it's not like we, with this message or with this setting, have come to terms with minority policy. I would rather say that with this we have put ourselves on the starting line. Once this is done, of course, concrete proposals on how we should proceed should be followed up, and that is when we have to deal with the annual budget debates. But for the Government it is important that it is followed up in concrete proposals as well, and we intend to do so. Let me end by saying that I think it's sad that there's not a total magnification that's behind this whole setting, especially in the light of what the story has been like in this area. I don't think there's any particular reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e959	I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly stressed that minorities should be heard. At the same time, the Committee, through its hearings, has clearly heard, not least from the Roma, that there are many who, because of the oppression they have been subjected to, just do not want to enter organisations, stand on lists, etc., because this was the basis for repression. What strategy has the Council of State planned to adopt to listen to these groups, who have lost school, who feel inferior, who may have received $60,000 in cheap pay for lost school, but who are asking for a sum to live off? How does the Council of State think to go further with the strong call of a large minority for it not only to become a word, but to act in relation to those whom we have done the great assault on forcible sterilization? I would like to hear if the Council of State has already thought about the strategies that will be followed in relation to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e971	There is no doubt that the abuses that have occurred in earlier times have probably been grossest and worst to the roman people. Then I also share the opinion of the representative of Østberg that within the group of the Roma people there are slightly different opinions about how you should have moved on. There's a little bit of different desires, and there's a little bit of different needs. It is probably also related to what the individual has been exposed to. We have and want to continue to have a close dialogue with the Roma people, both those who are in organisations, and those who are outside. I think it's very, very important to inform even better than what we're doing today, and we've recently started a new information letter system that we're going to send out two or three times a year to all municipalities, all institutions, etc. to inform about this. I believe that the school has an important role, and we are working on this. When it comes to the specific question of forced sterilisation of a part within this group, I am, of course, familiar with the Swedish scheme in that area. We have not decided by the Government whether it is appropriate to propose such a scheme here in Norway. Moreover, I refer to the existing schemes which are in other areas, i.e. within the scope of cheap payments, damages, etc. I think it's important to apply for some of the arrangements for some of those we're talking about here. I also think it is important to stress what the Stortinget fixed in the autumn of 1996, namely that the State should conduct a liberal practice in renouncing claims of limitation in cases where there has been an abuse by public authorities, in particular in the case of abuse of children and young people. I also think it is important to bring it with me when we are now going to move forward in relation to these matters here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e982	State councils underlined the seriousness of the setting today's inconsistency. I share her judgements there. The party of progress has re-examined how short their equivalency really extends when it comes to it, and the lack of understanding they have to facilitate that individual groups and individuals may have greater opportunities to retain their own identity, culture and belongings, actually have to do with equivalency. But then it is that in the area where now Ivar Østberg was in, it is an assessment of the Swedish compensation system in relation to those who were subjected to the terrible of being forced to be sterilized, it is the Progress Party that provides for a majority in this Chamber so that the Government can lean back and not remove the closer. No, the Council of State said that she had not taken a position on the Swedish scheme. She knew it, but she had not taken a closer position as to whether it should be considered more closely. Can I take it as a confirmation that she is prepared to evaluate the Swedish system more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e991	Let me first join the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, as I also said in my main post, namely that I am disappointed that there is not a total collapse that is behind the setting that is being treated here today. I really feel that this is a matter where our tolerance is tested, where our values are tested – what we really stand for both in theory and not least in practical policy. And if in one area I think the Norwegian society has a lot to be ashamed of, it's precisely in terms of the treatment of minority groups in Norway, through a long history, which was actively supported by the state and public authorities. So it would just be missing if you weren't going to complain about the wrong and the abuse that has happened, in a strong way, as the majority are behind and are in on here today. But I am disappointed that not everyone is in the position that is being treated today. So to the question from the representative Meltveit Kleppa. We refer to the existing schemes, i.e. cheap compensation, compensation for damage. Let me also add that, in the case of cheap substitutes, the requirements for proof are relaxed if the public has maculated the relevant archive material. That could also be the case in some of the cases here. I would also just like to repeat that there is a liberal practice of rejecting the claim of limitation in simple matters, especially where children and young people are inside the picture. So that's that piece of it. Then it's the Elverum Center, for which I'm glad it's a majority. We aim to start with that in 2002. As regards the question of forced sterilisation, there is dialogue between the Ministry of Social and Health and representatives of the Roma population. So there's a dialogue, but it's obviously impossible for me today to pre-empt any conclusion from that. But the Storting may at least be aware that there is a dialogue in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1004	I'm actually a little provoked by what the Council of State now said, that she was disappointed that not everyone is involved in this. I have said that we can regret what has happened, but that we cannot take responsibility for what a working party government did at the time. This is an assault that has been done so far back in time that the Progress Party as a political party was not even on the track at the time. We can't complain about something we haven't even been on. That must be the responsibility of the Workers' Party. That kind of insinuations I have a very little sense of. The Workers' Party will have its own party here for its own door and not make such comments to the Advance Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1009	The work party celebrates for its own door. Most other parties do, too. In fact, I believe that we politicians, no matter what party we belong to, have a responsibility to complain about the injustice that happened before our time. We as representatives of Norwegian society today should regret what happened in the past. I have done nothing but listen to the post that Torbjørn Andersen himself had here, where he among other things. said – I have reservations that I quote correctly – that he would not design a special policy towards the minorities, that it would be their own responsibility to take care of their own language, culture and identity, not society. I must say, I am disappointed, because I believe that, as representatives of the Norwegian big society, we have a responsibility to settle the injustice that has happened, and to ensure that the minorities we are talking about here are also given the opportunity to participate on equal terms with everyone else in our society, that they should not be oppressed because some of them live in a slightly different way from what is common in Norway, some of them look a little different than most of us, and some of them have a different language and culture than us. They're as valuable to us as everyone else. Therefore, it is also so important that Norwegian society shows it in concrete action, also in the future. I guess that's what I felt the need to underline. I also think I feel the need to say that Norway has always been in many ways, and — even increasingly — is always going to be a culturally diverse society. In fact, I believe that this is an enrichment for Norway, and not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1018	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1023	Those reading this message will see that Norway has never really been culturally uniform. We've been hiking through mountains and forests, regardless of borders, which have given us minorities. We've had a long-distance coast where people have come looking for port. It makes most of the Nordics today have drops of something in their blood. That is what is Norway, even though representatives from the Progress Party obviously do not understand it. I think it was embarrassingly revealing when this representative from the Progress Party spoke about equal rights to be Norwegian and have a sense of identity with the country in which you live. What's that country? Thus, many hundred years before the representative of the Progress Party was planned, it lived in Norway. It lived Jewish speaking here. We had rooms and novelists, and they practiced and practiced their culture. In fact, Norwegians live in Norway for hundreds of years and many generations who have a different native language from that of Andersen, who believe in a different god, and who dance differently from him. But they are also part of Norway. Their culture is part of Norwegian culture and has been throughout many generations. That's why Norwegian society and government have a responsibility to take care of that part of our culture as well. This is not to say that it is unproblematic. Having different lifestyles and cultures that meet leads to collisions. Then, too, often comes the worst in humans. But the most serious abuses have, however, been in the state and public domain. It was prohibited for Jews to enter Norway until the late 1800s. 90 years later the Norwegian State sent the Jews into Nazi Germany by force. The Gypsy sent them the same way. Norwegian mision among the homeless, with the Svanviken working colony, was established and existed completely in the 1980s. A replacement can never settle for it, but it can symbolize the regrets of the Government and the Storting through this message. That's why we had a Jewish settlement. In terms of compensation, it is very good that the Committee and the Council of State now say about limitation, and it is good to ask for a reassessment of the borderline in the area of cheap pay. Int. S. No 75 for 1996-97, the Stortinget took a principle view of providing cheap substitutes for re-strippers in the case of inadequate schooling. It was then decided that re-strippers should not be compared with other re-strippers if they have come out particularly unfortunate, but they should be compared to other residents. There might be reason to look at what the Storting said at the time, when you're about to have a new review of the borderlines for the cheap substitutes for re-strippers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1037	I have read with interest the big message and the committee position and heard the debate here today, and apart from the Progress Party, it seems that there is a great deal of excitement in relation to what has been outlined. It may not be very interesting to discuss with the Progress Party either, I feel basically that they have expressed themselves a little out of the debate. It might be as interesting as discussing what the Scriptures say, with representatives of the pagan community. At least it seems that the Progress Party is on a different planet than the rest is doing. At least one thing is clear in relation to the treatment of the national minorities of Jews, women, Gypsies, taters and what is now called forest Finns: it's not much to be proud of. I am pleased that it is explicitly stated both in the big message and in the vote that the state's behaviour and the state's treatment of minorities is to complain strongly. However, I would like to dwell a little on the concept of ‘national minorities’. When we discuss Jews, women, Gypsies, who are called rooms today, tattoos, which are called roman people, and forest fins, we move in the intersection between language, history and culture. It's, as the Storing Message well describes, an uneasily complex image. It is not possible to say that the country has treated the five different minority groups in a uniform way — fortunately, we might say. I belong to that part of the population that certainly has blood in the years from the latter minority, that is, what is now called forest fins, and my point with the post here today is that there are significant differences between the find population in the inner East and the population groups like Jews, Gypsies and Tatars. We must not get into the situation where – let us say – we create minorities for the sake of minorities. There are inconclusive differences between, for example: forest fins and other minority groups. There is currently no Finnish-speaking population in eastern parts of our country. Culture, music and literature exist – yes, to the most extent. Our job today is to make history take care of – in music, literature, cooking and whatever it may be. But, as I said, there are significant differences in the way in which we treat forest Finland and other minority groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1048	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1062	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1071	St.meld. No 6 on foreign affairs is a summary of what has been done in different areas. The Storting had asked the Government to introduce a ‘maintenance obligation’ to counteract coerciveness and bigami. The government answers that the measure will hardly have the expected effect, and argues so convincingly that all the unacknowledged Progress Party are some. The Bondevik government had warned that there was a need for a review of what is in «strong human interests». The government of Stoltenberg rejects such a review and is supported by the Right and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party will stress that people who flee their homeland are often persecuted because of faith or sex, as well as persecution, of course, because of political views. In these cases – faith and sex, or sexual orientation – the persecution is often seen in works by authorities other than the country, and the Christian People's Party, in addition to the SV and the Center Party, therefore believes that we need a review as mentioned. Fanatic groups — or indeed fanatical husbands — are a serious threat when authorities do not protect the individual. The fact that the foreign student is now required to carry out an assessment of the scope of ‘stronger human interest’ makes it even more necessary with such clarification. There are some asylum cases where refusals have been made, where friends and support groups are both despondent and dismayed at the assessment of just ‘strong human interests’ as a change of heart. Also the criticism from the UNHCR of Norway’s narrow use of the asylum institute gave the reasons for the above-mentioned review. The violation of foreign law has also been reviewed, and human trafficking has been identified. Now it is very difficult and many places actually impossible to get out of some countries with totalitarian regimes legally. This should, think of the Christian People's Party, the West in the name of honesty taken seriously, even though criminals who exploit man in flight cannot be tolerated. The last expression is also a collective committee. I would also like to stress that from 1940-45, the frontier locusts were heroes, even if they smuggled people out to freedom. The Storting Message does well to do what Kripos, in cooperation with international organisations, does to stop illegal immigration. That, of course, is necessary. There are too many who are walking towards the wealth of the West so that the countries can be completely open. Nevertheless, after visiting Ceuta and seeing African youth waiting for the chance of a better life in the West and taking the chance of drowning in the Mediterranean to achieve that, I feel that the world has gone off its backs when so many people are trying to find a better life. The Central Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party are still of the opinion that the Schengen Agreement is a threat to privacy, and that less border controls will mean free movement of both drugs and crime, while the majority support the Government that the Schengen Agreement is important in the fight against crime. The government also has a review of the Laos and Quetta projects in this message. The Committee accepts what has been done, with temporary residence permits and amnesties for those involved in the Quetta project, who have received Pakistani travel paper. This is no simple matter. It's for a group of people who can't actually be returned. They themselves claim to be from Afghanistan. Afghanistan also confirms this, while our regimes believe that they are from Pakistan. The same person who is right, many children – many under 10 years old – are involved. Everyone is born in Norway, goes to Norwegian school and has Norwegian friends. The Committee's plurality has carefully stated that, when the Government renews in the near future the suspension of this small group, it also assesses its overall and future situation. To put it diplomatically: the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that a difficult case will get an acceptable end if they get legally suspended, here they're going to live anyway. We also have a shortage of labour, so no damage has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1097	Only a brief statement from us in the Workers' Party: The government has been asked to come back to Stortinget with briefing and assessment of various foreign issues and to provide a concrete briefing on how the Laos and Quetta projects have concluded. The communication deals with important issues in the field of foreigners, including measures against coercive and bigami, dealing with violations of the Foreign Act, and illegal immigration, to name a few. It is positive to note that the Government has already announced that it will bring its own case to the Stortinget where, in a broad perspective, one is dealing with possible measures against forced marriage. In my opinion, such an important matter needs to be discussed in an overall perspective, and this will be the occasion for the Storting. The majority of the Committee agrees that bigami should not form the basis for family reunification in Norway. Where bigami is detected, the application must therefore be rejected. It's important to highlight where we stand in such problematic issues. Another important area covered by the Communication is gender-based persecution and the condition of ‘stronger human interests’, which the Committee will come back to when examining the refugee message later in spring. We have seen from the media that, despite the changes made in the legislation, not all conditions are applied equally often in practice. With regard to the Quetta project, the majority believe that this has had a satisfactory short-term solution. However, we cannot avoid mentioning that the majority believes that satisfactory long-term solutions for the families issue have not been found. We have noticed that renewed permission is available for treatment in these days, and the majority asks the Government to evaluate the situation for these people after this. It is hoped that a solution will be found for this project, especially in relation to the 20 children born in Norway. In matters where children are involved, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child must also be a heavy source. As I have suggested in my contribution, we will come back from the Labour Party to what we think about the asylum and refugee policy in Norway. Through the consideration of St.meld by the Municipal Committee. No 17 we will point to the instruments, and there we will, among other things. point to asylum treatment, to receptions, to settlement in municipalities, to qualification and work, to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees, to interpretation services, to feedback, to funding grant schemes for municipalities, to work immigration and to the Foreign Affairs Act. The majority has ample opportunity to deal with asylum and refugee policy in Norway in the future – today we are dealing with issues that have been dealt with in the UK before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1114	The Progress Party is also pleased that the Government has delivered a communication to the Storting with feedback on matters that have been dealt with in the past and where the Storing or Storing Committees have requested feedback. With regard to the first point of this Communication, which concerns the maintenance obligation of family reunification as a criterion for combating coercion and bigami, we show in our notes the previous proposals of the Progress Party, which would have been very effective, namely that there should be clear requirements for entertainment by family reunification, the disposal of a reasonable dwelling and that family reunification should not be granted by coercion or arranged marriage after examination in line with what has already been introduced by the Social Democratic Government in Denmark. Thus, the other secondary problems mentioned would in reality have been solved. Otherwise, like most others, we would say that most of the issues and issues raised here have to be addressed in connection with St.meld. No 17, which is now being treated in the Storting, as it will be about the future. But let me at least suggest as to chapter 3 and terminology, what lies in «strong human considerations», and some interpretations of how the 1951 Refugee Convention is to understand, that I think it would make sense for more people to consider not the 1951 Refugee Convention, which was made in the light of World War II and the refugee problem which it had existed during the war and after the war, to begin to become quite obsolete. I have noticed with considerable interest that also the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are now talking about 'asyl immigration', i.e. immigration through the asylum institute. It may well have been that it has never been intended that the concept of refugee could be used as cover when it is actually immigration/emigration that is the discussion, and that is what the individual really wants. I can then inform you that in connection with St.meld. No 17 will take up proposals to ask the Government to take the initiative of the United Nations to take the necessary steps to renegotiate and modernise the Refugee Convention, in line with the world's current situation at the beginning of this century, instead of having a Convention based on the situation 50 years ago. It's a 50th anniversary, and it should now be time to go through today's current situation, among other things. to prevent the use of the concept of refugee to circumvent clear provisions on immigration and emigration in the interests of well-being. I have also noticed that the majority, all the other parties – and of course we agree to this, even if we say that we will come back to it in connection with St.meld. No 17 – ‘has reason to believe, in the light of developments elsewhere in Europe, that illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and cross-border crime will not diminish’. There must be a clear call for the other parties and the Government to do something about this. Because it is not possible for an almost unanimous increase – at least all other parties – to take on board the fact that a development in which illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and cross-border crime will not slow down will be a desired situation. They must in fact agree with the Progress Party that in this case we must do something about this, and not sit as passive spectators, as we believe in other parties have a tendency to do. Otherwise, we have noted the assessments of this with the conflict between an administrative response and a criminal law response to various crimes, and it is said that the administrative response may be somewhat worse for the individual. But it is also possible to say that it is possible to have a boat – and. And when it comes to criminal reactions – and I would also recommend it to the Government – it must be possible for some countries to negotiate with one another until a criminal sentence is given in Norway when proof of having done something wrong is obtained through a court, but that it is administered in the prisons of the home country in agreement with the authorities of the home country. It will then be possible to have the preventive effect of both — and instead of either — or, as it appears, the Government and the other parties are adding up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1129	This Communication contains a number of different issues, all of which share the link between foreign affairs and issues of foreign access and the right to come to Norway. We have parallel to this also for treatment in Stortinget St.meld. No 17, therefore, many of these questions are, on principle, referred to that notification. I would like to make a few small comments related to some of the things that stand here. One is the question of bigami. The relationship with bigami is that maintenance hardly reveals the real problems associated with bigami, and that it's solved. That maintenance may have a function in relation to coercion or other things, we come back to, but we have to find other tools related to bigamies to do something. Because, most often, the problem here is not that one is actually married to two people under Norwegian legislation, but that one is married to two people under the law of one’s home country, or that for religious reasons one is still married to two people. That's where the problem lies, and not that you actually get to stay for your other wife – as it usually is then. There are still few countries that practice ‘multi-mannery’ in this world. That's why there might also be a dialogue with the religious institutions and communities that need to do something about the bigam question. The second important point is whether it is such that, if Norway does not fully meet the criteria for what should give rise to protection, the term ‘human considerations’ should be used in a way. We don't mean that. We believe that in connection with St.meld. No 17 must go through the criticism received from the Commissioner for Refugees and from a number of teams in order for us to give too few asylums and too many humanitarian stays – so we give too little status as refugees. We don't give too few stays in Norway, but we give too little status as refugees, and that can give us the basis to see if we practice the criteria of the Protection Act correctly. It is a different theme than that addressed in relation to the question of human considerations. What we realized that the Bondevik government would do was that they wanted to provide leadership that, if necessary, extended the practice of what was to be the basis of human concern. We don't see any reason for that. We believe that human considerations are the frames of discretion you have, and we're not going to put too many leads on that frame of discretion in relation to that. At least we're not going to do it right now, when we go to a new foreign student. We can rather see how they actually practice this before you possibly go in and start to sneeze it in. I think it is very difficult to have some ‘specification’ on all the situations that could arise where one would use a term such as ‘human considerations’. It is therefore important that the Stortinget has not placed too strong a lead on this. And that's why we still feel that this should be the breathing hole, and that it shouldn't necessarily go through a long political treatment in the Storting, even if you know what the main purpose is in terms of strong human considerations. But it should be a little bit of a discretionary room, and it might be less if there's going to be a coagulation with strong leads on what's going to be in this. So to the last case in the message, namely the questions related to the Quetta and Lao projects. Now the Laos project, with the exception of a few people, has solved itself after the lines that had been laid up. As far as the Quetta project is concerned, this is obviously a long-term problem that has been difficult. We have said that we believe that the handling of the Gholam case was wrong. The background to its re-reporting is a proposal from the Right to deal with the mistrust proposal on this matter before the summer. We believe that it should not have been done this way, but we admit that the government had the legal and formal administrative competence to make a decision, and that it is therefore not up to the Stortingen to try to review the decision that has been made in that case. But we might think that you shouldn't have chosen to do it this way. Then there's a long-standing problem related to these issues. We are very concerned that even if we have a long-standing humanitarian problem, we must not in this first big round of cases about people who are accused of having lied about their real identity, assume that in the future we will be able to assume that if you just manage to train the case long enough, the Norwegian authorities will accept that you may have lied about your identity. It'll be a dangerous signal to give in the future. These things we're going to get more of. We may have to find a solution, but we do not think that the Storting should impose a solution on the Government in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1146	St.meld. No 6 refers to feedback to the Swedish Foreign Affairs Survey. The centre party agrees with the assessments already communicated by the case coordinator. It is also stated in the setting that the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV are united on comments. Then the municipal committee has to deal with St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, a separate communication on asylum and refugee policy. We will then be participating in the debate on future policies in this area. Therefore, in this regard, only one comment at two points. One is the call to follow up with a closer examination of the concept of'strong human interests'. It's an initiative that was taken by the center government, and we believe numerous examples from recent times are involved in stressing the need for. In the note that we are together with the Christian People's Party and the SV, we refer to both sexual discrimination, religious faith and sexual orientation, which are areas where we want strong human concern to be assessed in a better way than today. It is both thought-provoking and alarming if it is the case that women who have been subjected to abuse are still – despite the 1998 guidelines – not assessed on the basis of strong human considerations. Cork waltz, mistreatment, or fear of coercion were always documented, and here the municipal minister had a golden edge to show that she is engaged in women's everyday lives, women's legal security, in a better way than what this feedback shows. So the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and SV have a note on the consequences of Schengen. The Schengen personal register, Europol, is mainly used to register asylum seekers, not criminals. It is worth noting that, in recent times, the EU's refugee and asylum policy has been strongly criticised by the UN Secretary-General. I quote from the News of the Day dated 30 January 2001, where the Secretary-General is represented as follows: "I encourage the EU to approach refugee issues in the right way," Kofi Annan explained with his usual mild tone in a brief conversation with journalists after a meeting with Prime Minister Göran Persson on Tuesday morning.The content of Annan's criticism is turbulent, however: due to the popular resistance against immigrants, some European governments have taken measures that do not comply with the 1951 Geneva Convention, says Kofi Annan.In his speech in the City Hall, Annan contrasted the tougher European development against the situation in North America, and stressed that Europe's attitude goes against the prosperity of the continent." I'd like to ask Sylvia Brustad to mark these words and go back and look at both the topic of «strong human concern» and otherwise the handling of other things where she might be in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1168	With regard to this matter, I have a few brief comments. The first question raised is related to bigami. I have no comments on that, except that I would say that when you come back with coercion, it is my and Left's opinion that we should probably look at an entertainment requirement for adult people to combat coercion. It is the essence of a longer study activity from my side that makes me want to give this signal now, but I know that the matter will come back later. I have also registered the matter of reactions to non-residents who do not respect the law. I have nothing to say about what the Committee has said, and I also know that the Council of State in other contexts towards asylum seekers who abuse the right to asylum, which is something else, has pressure on it, and I believe that it will also be followed up, among other things. when we look at St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001. When it comes to the issue of heavy human concerns, I choose all in all to follow the comments made by the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, and that has a reason. I sat in that government that thought we should take into account persecution because of gender in relation to the asylum issue. I have to admit that both during the Council of State and afterwards I have had a very increased concern that this is something we are not handling well enough. I think I'll say it like this. I don't want to appear to be a world champion, but in humility we don't handle this well enough. There are conditions that are not captured in our management system, and it's obvious, as we are, among other things. So in a chronicle in the newspaper a few days ago, that women who come here can come in an absolutely impossible, almost catch 22-like situation. The answer to that is not unambiguous, at all not legal. But it's so serious that I want to encourage the Council of States, which I know has an commitment to the question of such a background, to go into it more closely. If she doesn't want to follow the Bondevik government's point of view when it was time to review this with a stay in Norway on a humanitarian basis based on heavy human interests, you should at least look at it in relation to what we might call persecution because of gender. It is also a serious move – as I learned from the competent Pakistani lawyer Asma Jahangir, when she was in Norway a few years ago – that we actually lack international conventions to combat what we can call ‘gendercide’. We're fighting ethnic cleansing. But the fact that some people are actually being killed because of their sex, as happens in parts of the world, we lack an international agreement that is heavy enough to fight. Of course, although we generally have legal tools in every enforcement of human rights and any enforcement against killing someone, there is something missing from this. I think we also lack something in our own ability to meet and see this. I have to admit, it's very easy – when you meet many of these things, especially if we start with a liberal, optimistic view, as I've done – to become a hard cynic when you meet situations where you're being tricked. The art is to take the pendulum back from the cynicism you get when you discover that you're being tricked – and I've discovered it sometimes – and look very carefully at it with the opening that we might not be good enough. I don't think we're good enough to meet many of these women coming here. I think they often come in an impossible situation. I do not choose to draw any simple conclusion, but the chronicle that stood in the newspaper – I think it was February 15th – at least made an impression on me. In this case, the other matters that have been raised here, among others. The Quetta case, which I know on the crossroads, I will not comment on it further in the interests of Norway's relations with other states. But I will join in what has been presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1183	This matter is well-lit, and I do not need to elaborate on this much. I am pleased with Dørum's clarification of the problem of persecution because of gender. The reason why I take the floor is that I noticed the view of the Advance Party. We have discussed national minorities earlier today, and one of the main points of the Progress Party is that one should treat people the same. So now we're talking about immigrants, and then it's like if you're not well-appointed, if you don't have entertainment, as it's called, you shouldn't be treated the same way as those who have entertainment. In the previous case, I thought it was positive to reverse discrimination. Now, the Progress Party stands for discrimination against people who have either lacked entertainment or who, for that matter, have lost their ability to entertain – come to the country, have suffered an accident, lost their ability to entertain – and one will not have the right to family reunification in the eyes of the Advance Party either. It would have been interesting to hear what kind of logical and ethical reasoning is behind thinking completely differently in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1192	I record that the message has been well received, and that the majority agree with the way the Government has dealt with these issues and the specific issues. The foreign field is difficult, and the issues are usually much more complicated than what you can get through the media. I am pleased that the Stortinget is gathering that we should be active both nationally and internationally to help limit illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. Organized human smuggling is a major global problem, where people in need are exploited in the most cynical. The most recent serious example we have seen of such exploitation of people, is the ship that filled with desperate people was set on grounds outside France now this weekend. In this area, it is important both with UN cooperation and with close European cooperation. I am therefore pleased with the opportunity that we have, among other things. have, within the Schengen area, cooperation to participate in the exchange of information and the like in the fight against organised human trafficking. From the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, it has been argued that, in connection with Schengen cooperation and the Dublin Convention, we have less opportunity to pursue a maritime policy on asylum and refugees. These agreements do not in any way prevent Norway from pursuing the asylum and refugee policy defined by the Government and the Stortinget. Here I would also like to stress that I attach great importance to our close and committed international cooperation on issues relating to asylum and refugee policy, including with our European partners. Data protection is at least as high a priority in the EU as in Norway. The EU Data Protection Directive is an example of this. This Directive is also part of the EEA Agreement and is incorporated into the new Data Protection Act. In other words, I would like to distance myself from the claim made by the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the SV that personal data in Schengen and Europol are ‘used to register asylum seekers, not criminals’. An asylum seeker shall not be registered in the Schengen Information System, SIS, unless he has committed specific acts which allow him to appear in the SIS under the SIS rules. Europol also does not register asylum seekers. It would be totally contrary to the data protection rules to use a register for anything other than the purpose of establishing the register in fact and to enter information other than that provided by the rules. In this area, Norway and the EU countries share a common priority in ensuring privacy. Let me also comment on some of the things that have been said here about, among other things. the debate on strong human concerns. The concept of "strong human considerations" is, of course, precisely because it has to be very much spaced. All types of assessments are relevant in that assessment, in addition to taking into account children, health conditions, relationship with Norway, etc. There are many examples of female abuse leading to a residence permit in Norway. Women authorised to stay in Norway shall continue to be granted a residence permit if they are abused in society. I also want to add that I think we have more opportunity to assess exactly what is going on in the women's perspective, gender-based persecution, etc., when the UDI has now taken over the hearings. One of the problems when it was the police who stood for it was that it was simply not enough for the female police to question or talk to the women when they came to the country. Now, we're going to have a greater chance of doing that because UDI has this responsibility, and in that way I think we're also going to have a greater chance of discovering the kind of things that this is talking about. I also want to add that the Government has signaled that we now want to carry out a review of the entire Foreign Affairs Act. It's created at a time when reality and the world are so different in this area as well, and there's a need to look at it in the light of the time we now live in, with the great challenges we have in this area. And one of the things that it's important to look at in this context, as I see it, is how the women's perspective is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1215	Immigration is not easy, it shows this. When it comes to Schengen and crime reduction, I would say that when we visited Interpol in the previous period, when I joined the Justice Committee, they said that this was at best a double job. The individual's layer is determined, and it is not easy to know whether the decision is always correct. Sometimes Norway has also made mistakes, and I have met church sylantics with medical statements that have been subjected to torture without this being included in the assessment basis. So we're not completely sensitive. Norway has also been criticised by the UNHCR for our narrow use of the asylum institution, even though we give up on a humanitarian basis on the basis of strong human concern. Now we have created a foreign student, and they must meet with the individual asylum seeker in addition to the law. Why does the Council of State not want to help those who are going to exercise this insight, review and deepen – and more generally – what is involved in the ‘strong human concern’? That's what I believe and the Christian People's Party can get a lot to say to girls who are in an impossible situation and who are impossible to prove. There are many people who are amazed and dismayed that a refusal was made, despite the fact that «strong human interests» had promised something else. So I wonder why the Council of State does not want to take a proper review of this important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1226	This field is complicated, and it is also legal, even for those who are going to sit and enforce and enforce the laws that we adopt. If there is persecution, he must have asylum. In that case, «strong human considerations» shall not be considered. It is only if the authorities conclude that asylum should be refused that the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Act is assessed, i.e. the existence of «strong human considerations». That's how it works. Of course, with regard to the debate on how many we are taking on an asylum basis versus a humanitarian basis, etc., there is a debate that can be conducted, and it is possible to do so both in the context of the news of enlargement being discussed and in the context of the review of the whole law on foreigners, which I think is important. But something that's related to what kind of people are admitted, is also what country people come from, and what history they have when they come here. It is the total number that counts the most, not necessarily on what basis, whether it is also decisive in relation to which rights, etc. he/she has here in Norway. When it comes to the question of the guidelines that the Bondevik administration took into account, I would say that those guidelines are being followed. They shall give instructions as to when an persecuted person is to receive asylum and not reside on a humanitarian basis. So the commitment of this government is as great as that of the previous government in terms of these important issues, but I think it's important to keep your tongue right in my mouth -- if I'm allowed to say it -- compared to what we're talking about here. It has been said, as has been said, that there is persecution, that he should have asylum, and that there is no «strong human concern» being assessed. However, I assume that it is possible to discuss further in connection with the notification we are about to receive for treatment. The matter we are dealing with today is about things that have happened, and then we have to discuss future issues in the context of the other matter that the municipal committee is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1237	According to the President’s opinion, it must be assumed that one must have a ‘heavy mouth’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1240	In this big message, some problems related to the false identity and misstatements as a basis for the residence permit are described in detail. During the examination of the notification, a special case arose in the VG, which has also been asked by the Council of State in connection with this case, concerning a person who had previously been expelled from Norway because of criminal activity and gross sexual assault, and who has now again been convicted of sexual assault, but who has meanwhile returned to Norway via Denmark with a different identity, obtained a residence permit and then received Norwegian citizenship. There is, of course, the situation in which the sanctions available for expulsion from the country cannot be applied to a Norwegian citizen. In this regard, I have asked the Council of State whether a citizenship given on the wrong basis can be waived, and I have received the answer that it is not acceptable, because it is stateless. Then my next question becomes to the Council of State: If you have been granted a residence permit, which provides a basis for later citizenship, and the identity is wrong, either by changing your identity, or by giving you the wrong identity, shouldn't that invalidate the basis for citizenship? I think that's a question we should address when, for example. knows that according to the statistics we have available, after seven years it's actually 50 pst. of those who are staying here, humanitarianly or with refugee status, who ask for Norwegian citizenship just when they qualify for it, and that it increases. If we have problems with people who have originally specified the wrong identity, how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1252	In relation to the single case mentioned in the VG, I have nothing more to add than what I have responded to in the letter to the committee. With regard to the issues raised by the representative of Solberg about citizenship, etc., I do not think there are any simple solutions, at least not if you are just going to take it from the pulpit in a debate on feedback on a matter to the Stortinget. But we have more possibilities to discuss it. Storing message No. 17 is an opportunity, and there will also be a separate case in the context of the debate on citizenship, given that there has been a sample working on it. It may also be possible to discuss the issues raised by the representative of Solberg. Otherwise, I would just like to say in relation to the problem of the main issue, that is, the problem of false identity, that unfortunately there is a problem among some. And it must be quite clear that those who come here with false identity and do not want to help find their identity, etc., also have a great responsibility to make sure that they either produce travel documents, if that's what this is about, or in any other way contribute to coming up with their identity. We've got a lot of things to do. a good deal of people sitting in reception from Eritrea and Ethiopia, and some of them are sitting there because they haven't helped themselves to come up with their identity. It is very important to be clear that they also have a responsibility for the fact that the case can be resolved in one way or another. Then there are some exceptions to it in the cases that Stortinget has received feedback on today. But that one should have a very clear view of that and of the individual's own responsibility to contribute to that, I believe that it must be clear on a general basis, and that is also the basis of the policy that this enlargement has put in place by means of the foreign law that actually exists by. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1261	Under the heading ‘Orientation on what KRIPOS and other police agencies are doing to stop the illegal part of immigration’, among others. Norwegian participation in the Schengen cooperation referred to. I find reason to stress that there are three parties that in no way share the positive report that the Council of State is continuing both in this message and in its article here today. An external border, a system of registration and exchange of personal data and increased police powers are thus established here. It is our claim that privacy is compromised when sensitive personal information is sent on a journey in large computer networks. Then I find reason to stress that we believe it is important to build on and improve the intergovernmental police cooperation that exists today, not least within the framework of Interpol. The government mentions the Nordic Police and Customs Cooperation, PTN, and the 33 liaison officers deployed in that context. I myself have had the joy and benefit of meeting the communications service in Bangkok, and I believe that such work is of great benefit, not least in relation to drugs. What is now happening in the Schengen area is also what I see as giving the Secretary-General of the United Nations reason to warn and ask parts of Europe to reconsider their tightening. And I ask the Council of State to comment on its comments in relation to the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1270	In this area too, the Government believes it is important to have close international cooperation in these matters with the United Nations, but also with respect to Europe as a whole. With regard to the issue of Schengen, it is nothing new that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV believe what these parties believe about it. I find reason to repeat what I said in my main speech, namely that our connection to Schengen cooperation and the Dublin Convention does not prevent us in Norway from pursuing the asylum and refugee policy that we believe is right. And as I also said before, I disagree with the Central Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party that what is involved in privacy should be threatened by the agreements we have concluded, because it is thus that an asylum seeker is not registered in the Schengen Information System unless he has committed specific acts that give him the opportunity to enter into that register. I therefore disagree with the three parties – there is no new thing, and we do have that for a long time. When it comes to the question of privacy in this way, I believe that we have thoroughly rejected it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1277	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox As the representatives have now understood, we are under a certain pressure to continue the meeting of Stortinget and Odelstingen – where appropriate – in addition to at noon. 15th [[See page 2027]] It would be easier to do that if you fail to have any chance of a reply – and we decide not to have a line – in the next case. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1295	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. It won't be a reason for a line changer. Those who had to sign out on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1302	The configuration of the Committee for Document No 8:23 To make the House Bank a bank for the first time only, shows that there is no majority for the Right’s proposal. However, we can agree on a number of points, namely that the economy of parents should not be crucial for young people’s housing opportunities. That was also the main starting point for the Government's budget proposal for the current year. In addition to loans and grants to initial start-ups, the entry is important. In addition to good housing, the loan contributes to the choice of socially and resource-efficient solutions. The majority of the Committee approves the annex to the document. The reasons for this are the unanimous proposals of the Committee for the examination of the notification of St. No 49 for 1997-98, and the related submission, that a broad analysis of the main issues of housing policy should be carried out. The principal aspects of the proposal from the Right can, of course, be taken up when this investigation is completed and we get our own big message on housing policy for the next ten years. However, this should not be interpreted as e.g. The working party is willing to go in the direction that the Husbank should become its own bank only for the first time. The Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the Socialist Left Party show their comments in the Innst setting. S. No 223 for 1997-98 on the follow-up to Habitat II, where the majority, all except the Right and the Advance Party, believe that the Husbank should continue to be a general bank and an effective management tool in housing policy. There are many arguments for this, not least in terms of long-term and safe framework conditions. The actors in the residential construction market are not least dependent on it. The house bank also participates in and promotes competition among all borrowers. It is particularly true that banks in Norway imagine that they are affected by the large proportion of loans to housing provided by the House Bank. In other countries, there are long-term pension funds, mortgage institutions, etc. which provides, to a large extent, long-term housing loans. In this way, the proposal of the Right can be interpreted as a new twist towards the House Bank when the ESA's treatment of the House Bank was considered not to be contrary to the EEA Regulation. The House Bank also has an important role to play in counter-cyclical policy. The state, through the Husbank, can best help to mitigate undesirable fluctuations in the construction industry through a good credit policy. The house bank is the state's main instrument in housing policy. Well, here's one of the biggest differences between the majority of the committee and the minority, at the Right and the Advance Party. If private banks were to take over the general government housing financing, it would in practice mean housing financing for the better-off – that is, many would fall outside. The Bank’s interest rate setting system and subsidy profile were laid down in 1996. Prior to the conversion, the Central Bank Committee had delivered its position, NOW 1995:11, and the Government had submitted its message to Stortinget, St.meld. No 34 for 1994-95 on the interest rates and subsidy profile of the Husbank. In connection with this, it was asked whether the Husbank should remain a general housing bank, also discussed. Then there was a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party for the following: The House Bank needs to be maintained as a general housing bank – resource use and good environmental policies are good housing policies. The State must grant long-term loans, not create insecurity. The interest rate in the Husbank must be lower than that achieved in the market and there must be scope for political governance. This was some of what was said by the majority. So a little bit in relation to the House Bank's requirements for land limitations. Here, the Workers' Party believes that there may also be a theme when the Public Housing Committee, which is due to be completed at the end of this year, presents its work. People may want to live on less land in the future and perhaps use the money to travel. Our wish is that this should also be assessed by means of a housing policy for the future – i.e. after the sample has submitted its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1342	The Christian People's Party is busy finding good solutions for first-time start-ups in the housing market. High housing prices and often large study debts make it difficult for many young people to buy their own housing. It makes it necessary to improve the financial means for those to establish themselves for the first time. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that it is unthinkable that the family's wealth situation should determine whether young people can be able to buy their own housing. However, Christian People's Party does not support Document No. The 8th proposal that we have to deal with today. The model outlined in the proposal is based on the fact that all basic pre-residential financing is to be financed by ordinary financial institutions and that the Husbank will cease to provide entry loans. The House Bank, on the other hand, shall be responsible for all top-level financing of initial start-ups. Although the Christian People's Party is positive that the House Bank can become a bank for the first time, it does not have to be converted into a bank for the first time only. The model outlined in the proposal will allow you to close out a section of those who are required to establish themselves for the first time. A private financial institution will often consider payment options more stringent than the Home Bank. This may lead to the exclusion of those who need the most loans from the House Bank. The Christian People's Party would point out that it is important to keep the entry loan, because the entry loan is a good incentive to invest in the construction of new dwellings, both among barricades and other builders. The entry credit is important for housing construction in the districts. Some of those who need to buy a dwelling, e.g. students and social security, will not have enough income to borrow from private financial institutions. The Christian People's Party wants to improve the supply of first-stage starters with the following: A lot more people should have the opportunity to get a purchase loan from the Husbank. The purchase loan is, as you know, the loan offered by the House Bank for basic financing when buying a used dwelling. The income limits have been too low. The Christian People's Party sees it as important to change the rules of need testing to establish loans. It should facilitate full funding where necessary. At the same time, the BSU must be expanded. Stimulating savings is very positive, including for young people. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to give more of those who want to have a long-term low income, opportunities for start-ups. It is important that student families have the opportunity to buy a dwelling through the House Bank. They must be assessed on the basis of their future ability to pay, not on the basis of their student status. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that the minimum land standards in the House Bank will be reduced. This will increase the possibility that young people and others with low funding capacity can buy their own housing. We would like to stress that it is important for municipalities to provide plots for housing development, which is a bottleneck in many places. The Christian People's Party wants housing challenges to be put on the agenda. But before making any major changes, the Christian People's Party believes that we have to wait for the work from the housing policy selection and the subsequent enlargement message. I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 1, which I will challenge the Progress Party to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1368	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1371	There are sometimes some of the unrealities' intersections of Norwegian policies. One is that whenever new proposals are put forward that might simplify the world somewhat, which would streamline some arrangements, and which would ensure less duplication between the public sector and the private sector and between different levels in the public sector, it is very difficult for some parties to change their mind. I am pleased that the Council of State in the letter she has given has not put its foot directly down on the proposal, that she has taken a more bureaucratic approach – by saying that we have to wait for the choice of housing policy, a progress in relation to the previous position – to the outlines that we have given on how to reform the House Bank. If we have a challenge in renewing the public sector, sometimes we have to ask the question: have we organised the arrangements we have, right? And we've asked whether there's a need for a general housing finance bank when there's obviously not funding for housing on a general basis that's the problem in the housing market, but it's like that. go on plans and regulation to speed it up. No, then it is the targeted needs that defend public engagement. And one of the targeted needs is, among other things, to ensure that young people, irrespective of their income and wealth, can also find a place of residence in today's Norway. We have therefore proposed a conversion of the loan arrangements in the Husbank – not to remove all the social arrangements, but to be a first-time start-up bank on general housing financing, and it should be individualised. In addition, it shall maintain the socially justified arrangements relating to the disadvantaged and passing through the municipality, etc., through the Husbank. We've never suggested doing anything with them. The housing allowance for the insured and others we maintain. What would the benefits of such a scheme be? Yes, it would, for example. is that one could go as a borrower, namely in the local bank, and apply for a loan. They wanted to distribute loans, both to 60 pst. and the establishment loan from the House Bank. Then you had not gone to the bank first and then to the municipality. And what do most municipalities say? Yes: wait three weeks, we have a trial period. Bring the prospectus! What happens when you, for example, have been looking at an apartment you would like to buy? You think it's three weeks before the bidding round goes? Most people need to know that they have a loan when they go on display. Today, many young people say they can't use the schemes because it's too difficult and because it's too slow. They need a quick answer. So they fall outside parts of the housing market because they cannot get a debt financing that is good enough through the house banking system that exists. In addition, we know that municipalities are ‘risk-averse’, as it is called in social economy languages. The municipalities have not intended to prioritise and subsidise this group. No matter how much the Council of State tries to push the municipalities into lending more in this scheme, a larger and larger proportion of the so-called housing grant will be tied up in setting up loss funds. Up to 20 pst. the housing grant can currently be committed by the municipalities to loss funds in order to finance this scheme. It is a much larger proportion than the banks actually commit in relation to their own borrowing arrangements. This means that we bind funds that could have been used for other disadvantaged people to ensure that the municipalities still have this scheme. I think our solution would have been considerably better, because it would have been easier for users to meet directly. So these are the questions: do we need the general housing construction bank? I think this is a better arrangement for those who are going to establish themselves. Do we need these regulatory mechanisms? Do we need the House Bank to build more dwellings? No, we can't build any more homes even if we have the House Bank. There are other things that stop to build more dwellings. In addition, most of the quality requirements are some of the same as we through the planning work demand that the municipalities in the regulatory plans decide. That's how we get a double use of public resources -- by planning the exact same thing, by caring for the exact same thing. Just this bit right here, the responsibility for designing the housing market, is going to be a local policy issue. It shall not be such that it is the State which, through the House Bank, is required to set standards here. So finally to the element that goes at least: I think the time is overripe for a proper decoration of the minimum requirements. We have to look at the concept of functionality, not size and square meters. I am pleased that we have a ‘near majority’, and I hope that the Progress Party will now join this proposal – because that would be logical in relation to what the Progress Party has been doing before. So I just want to show you an example of how grotesque this is. Those who read the VG on Sunday [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1394	The central part of my house bank should be an instrument that will play an important role in the future by securing housing of sober standards in the housing market. For the present proposal, we have noticed that the House Bank is already using a substantial part of its resources against those who establish themselves for the first time. Both start-up loans, start-up grants and entry loans go to this group to a large extent. We have been confirmed by letters from the Council of State. But there are also other aspects to the business of the House Bank that it is important to secure. The House Bank, through its many loan and grant schemes, is involved in providing a range of housing policy solutions that market forces alone do not take good care of. These are liabilities for both investment and distribution. The House Bank helps to promote housing and environmental quality in the context of both new construction and repair – the debt of different types of construction, for example: student housing, rentals, nursing homes, kindergartens osb. In addition to the economic resources available to the House Bank, this institution has seen a great deal of professional competence to benefit both customers and the large community. I mean right with my proposal, these other sides underestimate the operation of the House Bank. Then it is true that while the private financial market is building its valuations on the individual's own money, and on the mortgage value of the loan item, the Husbank's role has always been that households with low paying ability should also receive loans to buy housing if they can meet the long-term costs. The household bank's interest rates on general loans are independent of the income of the borrower. The private financial market yields lower interest when the means of payment are good and the security of repayment is high. I had a period of time myself to make the House Bank a prime home bank. I thought we could use the funds even more rationally and objectively. I have come to believe that it is too snowy thinking. I have no doubt that the Husbank as it works today, is involved in some of the resource use and that in the market for used buildings there will be good access to such smaller, scarce dwellings. It is particularly important that low paying groups should nevertheless be able to obtain their own housing. It is necessary for the public to be able to help weak groups without excessive government contributions. Experience shows that housing financed by private banks has a completely different size and cost than housing financed by the House Bank. And with an increasing shortage of land in towns and agglomerations, it is important that the state stimulates good housing design and good housing quality. The House Bank is the state's most important instrument in housing policy. It is necessary to be able to see housing policy and the use of the instrument as a whole. In practice, the entry credit is the most important instrument after the interest rate subsidisation has disappeared. The House Bank is also particularly important as a travel hub to pursue economic policy. Through the Husbank, the state can best help to dampen unwanted fluctuations in the construction industry through a good credit policy. Experience shows that in periods of very high market interest rates, housing construction would have stopped almost completely if the House Bank had not offered more reasonable loans. We think there is a need for greater flexibility when it comes to land borders and is involved in a proposal that I hope will have multiples. We strongly warn against turning the House Bank into a bank for those who establish themselves for the first time, according to what I have already said. It will greatly reduce the political governance of housing policy and make it very difficult to achieve key housing policy objectives. And we're surprised that the Labour Party isn't involved and that's how it participates in the plural that this proposal is rejected. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal that is about to reject Document No. 8:23.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1413	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Mrs Solberg has asked for the floor to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1418	During a fierce clubing, I forgot to take up my suggestion. I'm referring to the proposal from the Right, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1423	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1426	Having regard to the proposals that are available, I have some challenges to consider whether the Progress Party will be involved in supporting these proposals. I will first take up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It reads: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the requirements of the House Bank on land borders are more flexible’. In practice, this means that one almost halves the requirements that apply today, from 55 m2 to 35 m2. It had to be the housekeeper's booth! If someone thinks it's possible to get a functional housing unit of 35 m2, they should think about it again. I think that if such a proposal had been given a majority, it would set in motion an unfortunate process, where too many housing units would be too small. I cannot support such a policy in any way. In fact, I believe that even 55 m2 might be difficult enough to get to a functional housing unit. It is clear that a decoration of the land borders can be good. The principle is okay enough, but an decoration must be that the House Bank should not have any land limits up, as it is probably in Sweden and in some other countries where they have similar forms of financing for houses. So I can't be in that case. It's perfectly clear. As regards proposal No: 2, from the Right, that the House Bank is converted into a bank for the first time, it is attractive enough. But that the Husbank will go from being a bank that will primarily stimulate new construction to becoming a bank where one can finance the purchase of older buildings, I also have no particular sense of it, even though I could say a lot about the House Bank as such. I think that such a system could help to inhibit the new building. And if that's what we need here in the country, it's just having the most possible means to stimulate an active housing policy. We actually need to build a lot more dwellings in Norway. At the same time, if such a scheme would result in our inhibiting new construction, the prices of older dwellings may increase. Then an almost equidistant distance, one has actually lost on it. I therefore believe that none of those proposals are particularly good, and it turns out that the Right is on proposal No alone. 2nd@item: inlistbox As I said, we need, first of all, more new construction. Nor do we need smaller dwellings in this country. That's my view of exactly the two proposals that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1444	There are major problems in the housing market. It's perhaps a paradox that it's like this, precisely because the Right in its time got through to what they called self-ownership democracy. And after that, the amount of dwellings and the prices of dwellings have been completely out of control. The solution today is definitely not to make the House Bank a first-time start-up bank, as the Right proposes. The solution, however, is to enable municipalities, together with the state, through the Husbank to ensure that a sufficient number of functional dwellings are built for rental, so that we can get people under the roof at a reasonable price. We'll come back to this in a broader debate on the House Bank, so I'm not going to spend much time on this right now. I want to draw attention to page 2 in the setting. In the first majority comment, we are included in an error. It's not supposed to be there. There is a comment that just says that the question should be addressed in a later notice, and that a person wants a broad discussion about it. We believe that there is no need for a broad discussion on whether the House Bank should be a first-time start-up bank. That is what the proposals propose. We propose, together with the Central Party, that Document No. The 8 proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1455	I will speak briefly on behalf of the Left on the proposals. The left has the view that the House Bank should rest on two pillars. One of the pillars is what's in the Right's proposal, that's to cover first-time starters. The other pillar is to cover people who, because of different situations and life phases, need help to cope. There may be a large number of newly separated, divorced or people who, for various reasons, have a low level of income. We are convinced that the House Bank should concentrate on the two pillars, and because that is the case, we cannot vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We can't vote to reject it completely bastant, as the minority from the Center Party and SV do. I want to focus on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Since it has now become a kind of witness here, I can say that my wife and I have lived in an apartment near the area that is proposed here, and we were happy and had it together. And because it was actually possible to get such a place at the time in Trondheim, we got a chance to get started. It wasn't using mortgages. It was simply a yard, owned by an old gentleman of a carpenter, and it was under the rent regulation regime, which no longer exists. We paid a rent of approx. $200 a month. I'm not going to mention what the amount was today, because it's been so many years. I feel that voting on the first proposal – I'm going to put it harshly and in cash – is a raw attack on any attempt to provide cheap housing for young people and people in a needed situation in our biggest cities. This is really not to take inwards any of the things that the large housing contractors, the housing co-operation – yes, who it might be – have drawn and shown is possible. I have even seen the drawings of dwellings of this size, and I know that it is possible to produce them. Even in the centre of Oslo, it is possible to produce them as long as you do not auction the plot away. For example, if you are learning, you are learning. the plot is at cost, and you have a high enough ungrade, i.e. that you have a five-six-storey townyard, it's completely possible to solve this. And there are people of an entirely different age than the average age of the representatives present in the hall here today, who actually think this is a completely egalitarian way of living. I don't think the representatives in the hall are at all near this nerd generation, neither socially nor in any way. But if you're going to try to listen to them, try to see how they live, try to see how they're going to manage to get started, then I'm describing rejecting the proposal again as a raw attack on an attempt to pursue a reasonable cheap housing policy. When the Workers' Party does that, I guess it's because they want to say that when they come up with their big housing investigation, they're going to try to deal with this somehow, so I'm not going to pursue it further. But when the Progress Party does that, with good professional judgement at the representative Andersen, there can be no doubt, I would say that then the representative Andersen should take a considerable study trip in the Norwegian big cities and get involved in the social situation that is there, get involved in the practical situation, and know that just the House Bank would be the key to ensuring that people get a minimum social standard to start a place in life and eventually through life development get a place to be. I am basically quite provoked that it is possible for a majority in the Grand Duchy to reject the proposal again, but I take political note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1474	The right-hand side proposes to convert the business of the House Bank into a bank dedicated only to the first-time establishment. If you were to accept that proposal, you would have to be aware that it would have had a significant impact on the work that the House Bank is carrying out today in housing policy. The household bank’s instruments are aligned with the housing policy challenges we face, and not just with the first-time start-up. Today, for example, is the case. The House Bank is important in stimulating the construction of good housing, assisting in the implementation of different action plans — which it has decided not least to do so — for ageing and psychiatry, contributing to the construction of kindergartens and to work on rehabilitation and urban renewal, to mention something. In addition, the Husbank manages the state housing support scheme. I also think that the Storting’s treatment of the big business message about the Husbank’s business showed that there is a great deal of excitement that this work is correct and important, and that the Husbank is central to its implementation. A formal demarcation to the first-time founder would reduce the Husbank's ability to do what I believe is actually required in the housing policy per person. today. However, what is good about this proposal being promoted is that we have had a debate on what we can and what we should and should do for those households who face problems in getting a place to live. I would also like to make it clear that the House Bank is already a bank for the first time. Not only is this instrument such as start-up loans, purchase loans, housing grants for establishment and housing support, but a large proportion of the entry credit goes to the first-time residents. But it's true that we have to do something more about the problems of establishment. The document ‘A solidarity housing policy’, which I presented last summer, focused mainly on the need for the House Bank framework and instruments to be adapted to the housing challenges and to provide housing security for economically disadvantaged households. The increase of NOK 2 billion to the House Bank, which the Stortinget decided for the current year, is important in this context. This increase is mainly intended to increase the allocation, inter alia. of start-up loans and purchase loans to some 10000-12000 households, and in the case of start-up loans, it is more than 50 pst. more than last year. It is a pleasure for me to be able to inform Storting that a change in the regulations on the establishment loan and the purchase loan has recently entered into force. The change in regulations will lead to more young people being able to borrow, and now it will be possible to give 100 pst. financing of the loan value of the dwelling via the establishment loan and that loans may also be granted for the purchase of housing units via the purchase loan. This means that it will be easier for young people without equity to buy owner-occupied dwellings. But the government doesn't intend to go along with it. In the big debate on the business of the House Bank, there were views that the income limits were too low to receive loans from the House Bank. I will quickly take this into account, and see if the income limits can be increased without it contributing to putting households with low incomes into payment difficulties. The document ‘A joint housing policy’ was also followed up in the 2001 State budget by increasing the allocation of the housing grant. The increase in the housing allowance will ensure that housing grants can be provided for the establishment of economically disadvantaged people and that more rental housing can be included in the future. Ensuring that economically disadvantaged households are also able to live well can be implemented with a stable and good housing support system. The government will also in future assess new targeted housing support measures, including those discussed in the Building Research Report on the relationship between housing aid and social assistance. Finally, I agree with the referral of the Municipal Committee to the Committee on Housing, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The Committee on Housing shall consider the matters referred to as Document No. The 8 takes up. The establishment is scheduled to be made before the end of the year and will be published as a public inquiry after that date. After that, the Government will come back as soon as possible with proposals for the Storting. But in the short term, as mentioned above, I will ensure that we manage to increase efforts on the existing instruments and soften the requirements for obtaining loans, and that is a work we are doing well. Let me finally make a few brief comments on that with the area requirement. Firstly, it must be clear that the so-called area requirement with which the House Bank operates does not apply to temporary housing units. That means that for homes that you're going to live in for a period, whether you're a student or for another reason, the area requirement that you're going to operate on does not apply. I have sailed in housing of 40 m2 in this town, where two young people have lived together and had it excellent, among other things. by means of a hem, such that one has been given two floors in one way. I think we need to have more of that kind of housing. But I also think it is important to bear in mind that one should practice a distinction between what are permanent dwellings for the future, and what are dwellings for a little while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1502	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1505	I'm not going to contribute to making a long debate. I just wanted to confirm two things. Government posts seemed to give the impression that we were proposing to remove the more selective instruments, housing support schemes or other tasks for the House Bank. We don't. The only thing we think the House Bank should end with, what we think is a great deal of double work compared to the private and public sectors, is the general mortgages on housing. These are the means we're converting into start-up loans. The other pieces are fully understood that we still have a state responsibility for, and that we are going to have government arrangements for, but then we have a different method of communication for the establishment of purchase loans that we think would be better. The other thing I want to do at the end is that I don't understand the Progress Party. One thing is you don't want to go into this square meter proposal. But in fact, when we dealt with the report on young and disadvantaged people, we kind of drew the conclusions of that document. The 8 that's now sitting here. In this connection, therefore, the Progress Party agreed and voted in favour of a proposal in this Chamber that the House Bank should be converted into a first-time start-up bank. So what's happened, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1514	When the land borders in the House Bank have been the subject of a significant part of the debate, I would like to say that it is a pleasure for me to be able to counteract the fact that we get a number of such cuddly housekeepers here in Norway. There is no worth – at least not a family – in the world’s richest country to have to live on such limited areas as 35 m2. And another thing: when it comes to the price – it’s up to date, and it’s going to be so much more reasonable with a housing unit of 35 m2 – it’s actually not certain that it’s going to be so much more reasonable. There is no doubt that one would get a higher square meter price for a dwelling of 35-40 m2 than if one distributes the price of all facilities of 55-60 m2. So I'm not sure if there's so much more reasonable with a housing unit of 35 m2 versus one of 50 m2, and that difference, from 35 m2 to 50 m2, actually makes you get a more pleasant housing unit. There was someone who mentioned my professional background. I have quite a lot of experience in setting up both one and the other housing units in this country, and I've always had a lower limit and operated with 50-55 m2. There is the lower limit, and it is precisely in line with the provisions that the House Bank is applying today. I have no problem defending my position in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1531	We then go to voting and start with case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1538	During the debate, Erna Solberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of competition for the employment services of persons requiring additional organisation and follow-up in the labour market according to the model outlined in Document No. 8:14 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1561	President! For the sake of order: the centre party shall not support that proposal. I ask that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1568	Someone must then say that they have voted incorrectly. Is anyone wrong? No, there's not much the president can do about it. That is when the proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1583	The President has understood that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1593	There has been a slightly special situation. Once the proposal has been adopted, I feel the need to vote subsidiaryly. But I expect more people will ask us to vote again. The result came a little surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1600	It did it on more than Erna Solberg. The President understands it with all due goodwill so that there are a number of representatives in the Chamber who now, after this explanation of vote by Erna Solberg, feel that they have voted wrong over II. - It's confirmed. Then we take the vote over II again. The President has understood it so that most in the Chamber will vote against it, but it is unclear to her whether there are anyone at all who will vote for it. There are still opportunities to change. [[Uro in the hall]] The President understands it so that since it was the minority proposal that was adopted, those who were in favour of II will now vote against II as well. The Labour Party and the Socialist Ventre party have already signaled that they will vote against II, and the President understands it so that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will at least vote against it. So there's an open question where the Center Party and Left land. The president doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1618	This was originally a central party proposal, which seemed to receive subsidiary support. Now it looks like it's falling away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1625	Aud Gaundal – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1628	Alternatively, the vote took place between I and the proposal, and the proposal was adopted by 50 votes to 49. We have voted in favour of I, against II and against the proposal. Once the proposal of the minority has been adopted, there is no point in adopting II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1633	This confirms some of the President's attempts to suggest that II is unlikely to receive any special welcome in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1671	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Right, taken up to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to convert the House Bank into a bank for initial establishment in accordance with the principles set out in this document.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1697	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to ensure that the requirements of the House Bank on land borders are more flexible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20.ana.ud1527e1711	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:23 [[2000-2001]]
