ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e26	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 16 November 2001: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 16 November 2001 at 4 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided:Journalist Siv Nordrum shall be appointed State Secretary at the Office of the Prime Minister with accession on 20 November 2001.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The representatives of Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Bjørn Hernæs, Ivar Kristiansen and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The appointed alternate of Oslo, Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e57	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e62	I'd like to suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e67	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e86	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, right 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a reply after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e97	In the revised budget this spring, it was assumed that a total of 8 000 asylum seekers would arrive in this country this year. The situation now turns out to be a completely different one. The number of asylum seekers has increased dramatically in recent months. New forecasts show that a total of 16 000 can be achieved in the current year — after the last official figures received by the Stortinget from the department. This means both financial and administrative implications for the budget of the foreign field this year, and that is what we are dealing with today, in theint. S. No 22nd@item: inlistbox It was the government of Stoltenberg that put this case before Stortinget, but the matter was not withdrawn by the new government, and therefore also supports the St. prp. No 101 for 2000-2001. Supplementary appropriations relate to both police and judicial assistance and the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The increase in the number of asylum seekers leads to an increase in the number of cases both in the UDI and in the police. It is pointed out in the proposition that the situation in the UDI is serious, because the number of pending cases is increasing for each day. There is reason to believe that the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers is due to both general constraints on policy in our neighbouring countries, such as Denmark and Germany, reduced border controls as a result of Schengen cooperation, and that the debate on labour immigration in this country has led to the impression that Norway needs a large number of unskilled immigrants abroad. New measures are therefore needed. The proposal suggests that Norwegian foreign stations should have a set of arrangements to be able to actively inform about Norwegian asylum and immigration policies and must be able to regulate labour immigration, so that there is no doubt as to what is the law in force. It is also proposed to speed up treatment, simplify procedures and differentiated offers in state reception. A simpler offer in reception will include: means that applicants for asylum do not receive clothes and kitchen equipment and that they are only paid pocket money as they are part of a common household. Action is also being taken on international cooperation and the use of our seconded police officers, because this is of great importance. All these measures support the Committee. Today, an asylum seeker can start working so as to say from day one. It is now proposed that a temporary work permit be granted only after three months. This supports a majority from the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. The minority, SV and the Center Party, are in favour of such a change. They also consider that there are more reasons for increased inflows of asylum seekers than the majority refer to. This is what I expect them to include in their articles. The Labour Party believes that it is important that we separate the institution of asylum – which gives the right to be in receipt until the case is settled – and work immigration. There may be many good reasons why asylum seekers are granted temporary work permits from the first day. It has also been possible for a few years now. However, experience suggests that it is necessary to limit the time when a person is allowed to work temporarily and make money. Norway has now proposed three months. Most other countries have longer quarantine and the EU is likely to propose six months. In some other areas of the foreign field, there is now a less need for appropriations as a result of other changes in assumptions. Among other things, the integration grant is reduced, municipalities receive 1000 persons less than foreseen this year and the settlement is pushed out in time. This is not good. Something else that makes us spend less money is that fewer Kosovar Albanians return voluntarily. An overall committee indicates that fewer cases than foreseen have been dealt with in the full meeting of the Foreign Affairs Department. The Government shall evaluate the matter and the Committee shall be required to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of this relationship. In the vote, the Progress Party has tabled three minority proposals, and I believe that the representatives of the Progress Party are doing well for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e123	It is quite right, as the representative Eye says in his statement, that the situation is serious. The progress party goes in its comments much further than that and will more or less characterize it as a crisis. This is a proposition presented by the government of Stoltenberg. From St. Prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, i.e. the budget of the same government, we see that the impact on asylum seekers' inflows have increased considerably next year to 12 000. So from what the representative eye now says, it's serious. My question to the representative Eye is then: does the representative share what is required or measured next year in terms of asylum seekers' inflows, when we have the situation that we now have? We know that this year's estimate was approx. 8 000, and then we might get twice, up to 16,000 this year. What are the considerations of the representative eye around an estimate of 12000 next year, which is in St.prp. No 1? Will this mean that the Labour Party will also accept a double next year – perhaps 20,000, 22 000 or 24 000 asylum seekers? And doesn't what the Workers' Party now wants to add to the increased estimation and extension of the receiver mean that the Workers' Party also indirectly opens up increased asylum seekers' influx next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e130	It is true that asylum seekers come, whether you have rules or not, but when we now invest in increased resources and change the assumptions, it is in many areas that it will once again give an effect that will probably result in a smaller influx. I think, among other things, that rapid courts, as we have introduced, which mean that very many are rejected after a very short period of time, will help to reduce the number of asylum seekers in receptions. I think it is very important that we stick to the distinction between what is a form of labour immigration and what is true of people who need protection. And after a lot of laps, both in the Storting, in the previous government and now, I think you're starting to get a grip on who needs protection and who doesn't. And I think that is necessary in order for us to be able to deal with this problem in the future as well. So ask Sandberg if we accept 20,000 to next year. It's not like you're accepting one or the other number. Now they've said 12,000 to next year. Maybe this could get a lot smaller. Because it's actually the way numbers go up and down, and varies a lot from month to month.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e137	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e140	Right now I regret that in the committee I did not put forward a wish for free debate. It seems that a little bit has been put on this, because it is still the case that we are not going to debate that kind of issue in Norway. We're not going to have any opinion about that. And I'm getting a little scared when the representative Eye in his reply to me in the previous row says that asylum seekers are coming, no matter what estimate we make. That's why we have such a thing here today! That's why we have to add several hundred million dollars, that's because we've taken a position where we say that asylum seekers come, no matter what we do. And that's why the Progress Party has been trying for years to get a debate and get a regulation, so that we could have regulated it, so that the Department and the UDI could have dealt with a fixed budget. I'm not going to mention budget discipline at all, but it's clear that when we add up to an estimate, we should also make sure that it's a system, so that we can stay within it. This year, no more than 8 000 asylum seekers were to be accepted in relation to the budget. But I understand that it's going to be difficult when we take the role that no matter what estimate we make, no matter what policy we want, asylum seekers come. I also think it is very interesting when Eye says that we need to distinguish more clearly between those who are to be protected and those who are not to be protected. The last time we debated this, in connection with the report by Mr St. No 17 for 2000–2001, it was confirmed by the Labour Party that there were no people in need of protection, who came to seek asylum in Norway, there were actually people who came here because of poverty, and who sought asylum for a completely different reason. Now we see that the debate on the immigration and asylum problem is flourishing in a country around us. In those countries, there is also an indication of the areas in which the Progress Party has tried to have a free exchange of views on the past, namely the large growth in family reunification, the explosive growth in the number of allocated citizenships, large expenditure on non-residents in the social and health fields, etc. These are things that the Progress Party has for many, many years tried to get an open and free exchange of views on, but then we have had politicians and political parties around us who have put a lid on the debate. It is now time that we saw the seriousness of the consequences of the last few years' asylum and refugee policy. Not least, we need to see the seriousness of the consequences of the situation for those people who have come to Norway and have been given residence and who live and are going to exist in Norway, because it is also a good thing for them. We need to invest more and more resources to get the people who have come to Norway, who have been given a stay, to work and to be integrated. When we know that in some groups it's 40-60 pst. unemployment, that's where we have to input the resources. Then we cannot continue the policy of the Bondevik I government with open borders. We have to innovate that the curve since 1997, when Bondevik I opened the borders, has gone right to the weather. This year, we're getting a new record. The last one was 14 years ago. Then we have to keep a little hold of the asylum seeker's inflow and the refugee inflow, so that we can concentrate on the job to be done in Norway to the people who have been given residence. I have in poor order been confirmed by the new government that it wants to do so, but on the other hand it is again very concerned about driving advertising around the world for labour immigration. So these are two different ratios. Now we need to focus on one thing, and that is to put the integration policy in order within the borders of the country. Then we have to take a break. Finally, I would like to promote the three proposals from the Progress Party, which are not entirely new, but which are very concerned with more and more, at least in countries around us. One goes to the 1951 Refugee Convention that needs to be revised, and there are also two proposals that are directly tightening up the asylum-seeker's current influx of asylum-seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e151	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e156	I recorded that the representative of the Progress Party has intended to push human dignity policies through the budgets and is strongly committed to saying that if we have said that it is to receive 8 000 people in a year, we shall not accept the jam any more, no matter what the situation in the world is and what else lies ahead. I have a question for Per Sandberg: if asylum seeker no. 8 001 comes from North Korea and is a democracy champion and against the Communist regime there, we're going to close the door and say, it's not going to be worth considering your asylum application because you became a no. 8 001? So the next question. Let's say we had decided that 8,000 cancer patients would be treated in a year, and cancer patient no. 8 001 was an old lady who would die if she did not receive treatment. Per Sandberg believes that we should then have the same type of budgetary policy that will decide that no. 8001 should not be treated with cancer because we have adopted only 8,000 treatments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e165	Firstly, the target would not be 8 000 if the Progress Party had been able to determine the budgetary content. Secondly, the representative mixes the concepts significantly here, but he points to an important area, namely that we consider all the people who come to Norway and apply for residence as asylum seekers. Now it's confirmed in this proposition by UDI that 40 pst. of the asylum applications made in the last few months are clearly groundless. I'll go as far as to say that of the 60 pst. Which is left, is 90 pst. groundless in relation to asylum stays. Then we've gone on that line in Norway, which the representative is very concerned about and has been the strongest spokesman for, at least the party, that we should give stay regardless of what applications you have. That is the policy we have pursued in Norway. No matter what reason you come here, you should last and last stay on a humanitarian basis. That's why we have the situation we have today. It is also confirmed by the ministry that only in 2000 it was probably 7-8 pst. which had good enough reason to apply for asylum in Norway. Putting this forward as unprofessional and comparing it with not giving residence for the one person who exceeds 8 000 because he has a disease becomes completely meaningless. That is why we have the situation we have in Norway today, because we have not been able to integrate the large amounts of economic refugees who have come to Norway with an asylum application in the suitcase.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e171	I did not think it to be contradictory, as Per Sandberg claims, that there is no willingness in Norway to discuss asylum and refugee policy. That's the greatest part. Last spring, the Stortinget had a broad review of the asylum and refugee policy. But I am pleased, when I hear Per Sandberg's comments, that there is still no willingness to discuss asylum and refugee policy on the premises of the Progress Party. I have two questions for Per Sandberg. The first is on the proposal to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention, because I see that for the Progress Party it is the basis for adapting to the reality of the day. Then I would like to remind Per Sandberg that today's reality is that there are turmoil, war and large refugee traumas in several places in the world. It is true that there are very many poor countries that take responsibility in this area in a completely different way from the Western world. Is that how the Progress Party will adapt the Refugee Convention to the reality of the day? I expect that he is aware that the UNHCR, the High Commissioner for Refugees in the United Nations, has pointed out that Norway per year. the date of withdrawal from the asylum institution. My other question concerns Per Sandberg's care for those who have already come to the country. In recent times, there have been several cases where single minor asylum seekers have far too poor follow-up. The question is: can Per Sandberg consider the proposal that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the SV have agreed on in the past, namely that the receptions where there are single minor asylum seekers are given the status of a child protection institution and thus a closer follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e180	One must in some ways be a little shadowy when one claims that the situation today, in 2001, can be compared with that in 1951, when the Refugee Convention came into place. It's clear that I'm using the reasons from the UDI and from the Department. When the situation is such that most people who come to Norway, yes the majority, come here with obviously groundless applications, we have to take it inwards. Then it's not like these people are in some kind of terror situation, in some kind of war situation, or are politically persecuted. That's what's in that it's obviously groundless. The representative refers to the debate on St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001 and that this was openness. The broad majority's openness was that the Foreign Affairs Act should be embellished, that asylum seekers and refugees themselves should have a greater impact on asylum and immigration policy in Norway, and that a coercion should be imposed on municipalities regarding outsourcing. That was what the great majority in the debate put in ‘openness’ at that time. We have to go the other way. Now we have to tighten up the Foreign Affairs Act, and we have to make demands. We must make demands on those who come to Norway. With regard to the concern about sociable asylum seekers, I share it, and I have done so for a long, long time. It is clear that this shows how integration policy in Norway has failed – a total failure. When I see how a thing is to place these lone asylum seekers in the way we've done, as we experienced last week, I'm startled. I'm going to be willing to discuss with the Central Party whether we should also use other institutions to safeguard the situation of these young asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e189	I take the floor because proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party wondering a little bit. It is about asking the government to start work on an audit and a renewal of the Refugee Convention to adapt it to the reality of the day. In 1951, the Refugee Convention was established on the basis of a war in Europe, a war with many refugees fleeing persecution and war. Now we have new wars and unfortunately new refugee traumas – also in Europe. What is so different from the reality of the day? I wonder if the representative Sandberg has spoken to refugees from Kosovo, Bosnia, Afghanistan and Somalia and asked them what their situation is like. As far as I know, after talking to these people, there is just war and persecution a fugitive from, including today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e196	It is possible that I was a little unclear in my previous reply, for this question I consider to be about the same as the previous one. The difference is that in 2001, we have a huge flow of asylum seekers with obviously groundless applications. We didn't have that after World War II. That's the big difference. That is why we need to go into and have the UN Convention on Refugees revised, which in a way prevents Norway from exercising strict asylum seekers' inflows. Because that's the one that's being used against us. It is the one that has been used against the Progress Party for ten years because we wanted a strict asylum policy and a strict refugee policy. The counter-arguments from, inter alia: The Christian People's Party has been: but we have to deal with international conventions, especially the UN Convention on Refugees. Well, then we have to propose to revise it, so that we can pursue our own policy. This is also highlighted in the debate that is taking place in Denmark today, among other things. the Danish Left, the sister party of the Left in Norway, one of the Christian People's Party's government colleagues, may pass 30 pst. in the elections and becoming the largest party in Denmark, because they have seen the problems that arise with the kind of asylum and refugee policy that has been conducted in Denmark and that is being conducted in Norway, and that the Danish people have now said that something needs to be done about. And they're using the exact same argument that I've used in my main post today: for a few years now, we have to focus on solving the problems that are within the country's borders, and getting the integration of all the people who have come here and been given residence. Before we can get that kind of integration in place, we cannot accept the flow of asylum seekers that we are now receiving.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e201	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e204	We're dealing here with a proposition that assumes that the prognosis has changed. Now it's like predictions that they have a tendency almost never to turn on – as with the forecasts for this year, and so with the forecasts for next year. I get to say that an economist once said: Our financial forecasts are making mistakes over and over again, but that doesn't mean we can just stop making these forecasts. And that's an important point. We have to deal with the changes that are taking place, and when the forecasts change, then we have to change the policy. But it's clear that what happened on September 11th, and the war in Afghanistan, tells us something about the world we live in, and that we have to deal with in the years that are coming, is not going to be a world of more security and fewer people on the run than we've seen in the years that have passed. On the contrary, there is a lot of evidence that in the years to come, too, there will be enough people in need of protection. That is okay, and then Norway will take its responsibility. We in Stortinget must be adults and take our responsibility for the people who come here. For every Today, the poorest countries in the world are accepting the largest numbers of refugees; the poorest countries in the world bear the greatest burden of conflict in the world and of poverty. It's important for us to remember when we sit here and treat such things as this. We belong to one of the richest countries in the world. Then we need to take responsibility both for accepting the people who are applying for Norway and to contribute to peace and cohesion in the world. There are many reasons why people decide to go up the roots and take their picks and packages and kids and go to another country. Some of them may be persecuted politically or religiously, because of their sexual orientation, or may be on the run because of environmental disasters, because of war – different things. Other people can be economic refugees. Some will call them happinesses, others will say it's people who run away or run away from one place to another to take care of their own family and their own kids, because they feel they have an obligation to do it, and because they feel that they're not really doing it in the country where they are. There may be a shortage of jobs, it may be hungry, it may be anything. In addition, there are a number of people who move that are associated with criminal environments. They may be connected to a mafia; they may be involved in doping; they may be involved in human smuggling. I think it's important to distinguish between these different categories. And I and SV seem to be making a mistake when it's now being added up by the UDI and by the Department, and as the majority have agreed, putting all the people who have so-called obviously groundless applications, in the same booth, because we think it must be possible to distinguish clearly between people who are economic refugees, people who come because they are seeking to find outcomes for themselves and theirs in another country, and people who are here with obvious criminal purposes. It's no longer than the last century – and now I'm talking about the 19th century, or maybe the 20th century, I'm a little uncertain about it – that people have emigrated to America just to seek an economic outcome. And no one thought of them as criminals. No one's talking about our ancestors as criminals. I even have two granddunks who went to the States to get something to live on, because it was hard on things to live off in Norway. There was no one who would have placed them in the same booth as criminals at the moment they came to the United States. Therefore, I also believe that it is wrong that we are now adding up to do so in Norway. We have to distinguish between people who have a criminal scroll, who have contributed to human smuggling, and who are involved in those things there, and others. People who have mafia connections create problems for ordinary people, for ordinary refugees, for ordinary people who come, who have economic motives for coming to Norway. And then we have to separate the criminals, while the other people who come for economic reasons, we have to treat them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e224	The representative Heikki Holmås from SV stated that many people need protection even in the years that come. That's of course a correct statement. But then we must also know that the institution of asylum must not be discredited. We must maintain the legitimacy of the institution of asylum. Let me grasp a remarkable phenomenon in Norwegian asylum policy that SV must also take inwards. Of the number of asylum seekers in 1999 and 2000, who came to Norway, there was 1 pst. which was granted asylum in Norway. 99 pst. rejected. But so was it that only about half of those who were rejected were finally expelled from Norway. Very many people are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis or on other types of basis here in the country. And the knowledge that it's possible to stay, for example. Humans in these countries now have the hope of entering Norway on a humanitarian basis, although they know that they do not comply with the requirements of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Refugee Convention for asylum. Of course, it stimulates people who know that they are not asylum seekers but know that it is possible to stay in Norway anyway. Should we not, in such a situation, tighten up the possibilities of humanitarian residence, in order to signal to the outside world how little opportunity there is to stay in Norway if you arrive as a so-called false asylum seeker? Does not the representative Heikki Holmås think that it would have a preventative effect and open up more potential asylum seekers to Norway if they know that the opportunities to stay in Norway are now very limited? Does not the SV representative agree that this is an effective measure to get rid of many so-called false asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e233	In fact, I agree with two of the things that were said by Andersen from the Progress Party. One is the last thing he said, it's quite obvious that if one manages to do some preventive measures in relation to those who are criminals, and informs people about the asylum policy in force in Norway, it will actually lead to fewer people coming to Norway. And that is also agreed. That's a good point, and it's not the Progress Party alone about meaning. The second point I think is a good one is what Andersen says about not discrediting the asylum institution. But here you point to an important point that SV has pointed out for many years, and that I believe the Government and the Workers' Party, among others. should move inwards. That's when we have a system that makes that 99 pst. by the people who are applying for asylum, it gives an impression that, in my opinion, the Progress Party is using to get its policy through. They use it that there are so many who get rejected, like a break to tell people that these people don't deserve to stay in Norway. But that's not the truth. The truth is that a number of people who are refused and who are later granted humanitarian residence deserve to stay in Norway. And that is why we should extend the basis on which asylum was given to many, many more. Then it had been ensured that people, instead of being allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, got real asylum, which would also help clarify the misunderstanding that Per Sandberg drew out in his post, where he says that 60 pst. Of those applications that are not considered groundless, in fact, it is — because it is a widespread misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e240	The President will draw the attention of the representative Heikki Holmås to the fact that the personal pronoun you are not a parliamentary pronoun. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e245	There will be twice as many asylum seekers as one had expected, to Norway. And that, of course, creates a lot of problems. It's just to take off the hat for the countries that can do this, because it's still not Norway that has real refugee problems. But that both police and UDI have increasing piles of untreated cases, in addition to the queue of complaints that have been there for too long, tell of a crisis. Former municipal minister Sylvia Brustad tried to deal with the problems, not least because of the continuous involvement of Stortinget. But when PricewaterhouseCooper's report of 1 August, which she started, starts with half of the real intrigue of asylum-seekers, it goes without saying that there has to be a new thinking here. The Christian People's Party believes that reducing the processing time in itself will lead to less instigation of so-called groundless asylum applications. It is too attractive to stop in Norway or the West, even if it is only as long as the trial period lasts. There is also a need to consolidate the situation. One must soon share the bunkers, as the Christian People's Party has asked for countless times, and make the approval of simple matters quick, unbureaucratic and simple. In fact, getting the cows down and down is essential to increase legal certainty for the individual. The Christian People's Party is like one of the birth helpers of the Foreign Study concerned that the names have been marked by giant islands and many administrative decisions. The aim of the study was to increase legal certainty and a new opportunity for asylum seekers to explain the matter in the context of the study. In all respects, we see that the initial difficulties have been severe, and we will await the steps that the Government will take to improve this situation, and therefore look forward to an evaluation of the Foreign Affairs Study. This deposit proposition approves a number of permissions necessary to bring about the actual situation. The Christian People's Party will stress that war in Europe, in addition to the anguish and poverty in Eastern bloc countries, is an important explanation for the great intrusion of refugees. And we don't have to forget that even if Norway can't solve the problems in the world, the refugee dream is about human beings who simply and naturally want to work for a better future for themselves and for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e262	It is so that the Christian People's Party, even in its time under the Bondevik I government in 1997, has greatly contributed to our having the conditions with which we must do something, and which the Stortinge treats here today. The Progress Party warned and warned for a number of years against the consequences of softening immigration, asylum and refugee policies. In 1997 and later, there was little hearing for the Progress Party to talk about in this context. But now we're standing here today and getting clear evidence that the Progress Party said that time, and also said in the years after and years before, actually was right. So Anita Apelthun's seal from the Christian People's Party has contributed through its own party to the huge influx of asylum seekers into Norway that we are witnessing today, and that is actually why we have this debate. Let me challenge the representatives of the Christian People's Party to see how willing they are to admit that part of the main explanation is coming from themselves. Does the representative of the Christian People's Party believe that the liberalisation that the Bondevik I government provided for in 1997-1998 can indeed be a major part of the main explanation of the record high influx of asylum seekers into Norway, as we see today? Or is it that the Christian People's Party believes that there are completely other things that make it possible for us this year to have 16 000 asylum seekers, while the forecasts were half? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e269	It is true, and I am proud that the Bondevik I Government softened the refugee and asylum policy and introduced a more humane refugee policy. It wasn't very big changes, but I think there were little changes in the right path, because – as I said in my post – this is about people in a difficult situation, people trying to get a better life. I don't think that's the problem. The answer is completely crystal clear from the Christian People's Party to the Progress Party: we don't think that's the problem. There is war, there is poverty and there is need, in addition to the Schengen solution, which I believe is the main reason why more people are coming to Norway right now. And I'm going to say that the Bondevik I government is not primarily responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e274	I only have one question for Anita Apelthun Seele, and it goes on what I raised in my post, namely the question of legal certainty and human dignity. Does the representative, Anita Apelthun, think that it is a good idea to place the people whom we consider to be law-abiding asylum seekers, who are in Norway because they hope for a better future here, in the same booth as criminal asylum seekers, who are in Norway because they want to seek a better economic future here, but who we do not want? Does Anita Apelthun Seele mean that it's a good idea, when we know that some of these people who have a criminal background will create a very bad environment and definitely will not have a positive influence on everyone else, like families with little kids coming to Norway? Does the representative think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e279	Legal security is important for all people – refugees as well as others. When it comes to those who are elected, I am pleased that SV now realizes that asylum seekers who are unbalanced or, where appropriate, optimists receive special accommodation. After what I can think of, it wasn't SV's point of view in ours, but it's allowed to change vision. Those who are criminals and have committed a criminal act, for it must be before we can classify people as criminals, according to the Christian People's Party's view, that they should be held in custody. We have to find ways to separate criminals from other law-abiding people. But a desire to gather them as one is pretty sure to get out quite quickly, in its own places, so that they don't become part of Norwegian society a very short time, but it must be those who have completely groundless asylum applications and who are going to go out anyway. I hope there aren't too many criminals among them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e286	We are discussing today a theme in which the representative Apelthun Seele has had a strong commitment for many years. She reminded me today of the Bondevik I Government's softening of asylum and refugee policy. In an area where the Prime Minister had a strong profile, it was at that time not a majority in Stortinget, simply to get a review of the ‘strong human interests’ outreach in order to provide more humanitarian support if possible. If the Christian People's Party has passed through the government they are now part of, there will be a multiple at this point. Is it an area where the representative Apelthun Seele and the Christian People's Party will engage? It should probably be even more necessary today than it was too few years ago, to have a review here. My second question relates to the situation of single minor asylum seekers — those under 18 years of age who come to the country on their own. There are examples that show that neither reception nor local authorities follow up well enough. A single minor in Norway is the subject of a very special attention. Does Apelthun Seele still believe that a single minor asylum seeker should be given the same offer as a Norwegian single minor, simply an offer under child protection? Will the representative stand by what the Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party have previously held together?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e293	The central government, of which Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was a part, carried out a softening of the asylum and refugee policy, and I appreciate that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was proud of it, for so was I. "Strengthening human considerations" is an important change. So now a foreign law is to be reviewed, also with regard to «strong human interests». The representative of Meltveit Kleppa is well aware of how the work of a government is going, and I dare say that the representative might be surprised how much can come from the new Bondevik administration as well. When it comes to single minor asylum seekers, it is a major problem. There's a very small problem in numbers, but there's a big problem in terms of human beings and justice. It is not only my heart that bleeds for the children who are isolated in the world, and who also come in situations where they shouldn't have been. Whether to listen under child protection – we've tried it once without getting it done, and I stood for it – or if we're going to get other solutions, I actually left it to the review that we're going to have of the Foreign Law. But what I and the Christian People's Party have always meant primarily is that these children should as far as possible be placed in normal families, as foster children, for there they have the best of being, with a normal assignment, with a normal everyday life with the frames, the rules and the conditions that children should have, and that we will still work for, the same administration as it should be under.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e302	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e305	There are many individuals who can join and give St.prp. No 101 for 2000-2001 a face. For example, when the Stortinge today decides on the economic and administrative implications of the foreign field, it is among others, because there were thousands of people in reception that UDI had planned to have lived in a municipality during 2001. There is no space for these people in the municipalities. Local populist struggles with questions from the UDI, local community clarification and economic priorities. According to the media, several municipalities are now saying that they do not have housing available. The council of the central party to the municipal minister is that she takes it inwards, that she acknowledges that there is a lack of consistency between tasks and means in the municipalities. This year, this means a saving of 194 million. kr. But it may increase expenses later. There is a heavy load for many of those who stay very long in reception. Then there were also 900 fewer Kosovar Albanians who travelled back before the deadline. Among them there were some who thought they had nothing to travel back to, and there were some who thought they had to be in Norway for as long as they could, and tried all the appeals, not least for the sake of their children. That's $13.5 million. kr. The foreign student does not seem to work after the intention. Fewer things than expected will be treated in the name – and there are 25 million. kr saved. But in addition, I assume – although the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not have any commitment to creating a Foreign Study – that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in favour of the Foreign Study functioning after the intention, that he there does not expect an evaluation, but actually uses his position to assert that the subject functions as the Storting had intended. There are single minors who experience that they do not receive the care, support and help that was provided the longest in the Stortinges treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001 on refugee policy. It turns out that there are receptions and municipalities that are not following well enough. I find reason to underline it today. I'm very worried about the single minors like this, who are not so many, but who are so crucially important to get a good start in Norway. I ask that this be addressed before the foreign law is reviewed, because, as I understand, that review should be completed in 2003. We in Norway must also keep ourselves living in a world of unrest, war conditions and poverty, where someone who has a real basis for it is asking for shelter, for the UN and for others of its conventions, and there is someone knocking on our door because they want to do the same thing that many nordics did too soon back – when they were seeking closure in the United States and in other countries. The centre party agrees with the measures it has proposed today to implement to sort out the quantities of cases in order to reject more quickly those who did not seem to have a reason to be able to seek asylum. But we deeply disagree that those who seem to be pre-defined as baseless seekers should be placed together with those who have the characteristics of criminals. It seems that we are wrong, and we want to ask that the Council of State be particularly attentive to legal certainty in relation to so-called rapid procedures, and that it also has the focus of interpreting services, and what happens on the inside of the reception, to make it better for those who stay here at least for a while. Finally, let me underline: there is one proposal that the Centre Party specifically takes away from, and that is to take away from asylum seekers the possibility that they today have of seeking jobs. It means so much to those who get it. They get the possibility of a more meaningful being. They can then also fill vacancies in this country and thus have a different possibility of contacting the community around the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e325	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa is clearly concerned about the lone asylum seekers received by Norway. There are not so many, she says, but it is at least a fact that in the last five years we have received about. 1 500 single-year-old asylum seekers, up to seven years. Today, the situation is likely to be between 2 500 and 3 000 single asylum seekers in Norway. One of the things that the representative Meltveit Kleppa pointed out was that we have to make an extra effort in relation to these children. I fully agree with that. But when expert teams point out that Norway does not actually have competence in child and youth psychiatry, in the care sector or in health care in general to take care of these children, what action should we take first? There is also no doubt – now we have no figures to assume in Norway, but at least on the basis of the figures found by the Danish authorities – that this is about a very large number of anchor children, i.e. children sent to Norway to pave the way for the rest of the family through family reunification in retrospect. Does the representative Meltveit Kleppa have any views on that? I want to challenge the representative of Meltveit Kleppa also in relation to the new settlement system that is going on, where at least I seem to see that the municipalities are now somehow being forced to accept a certain number of refugees from the KS" and from the viewpoint of the county municipalities. Does the representative of Meltveit Kleppa share that view, or does she believe that the municipalities are still free to say yes or no to the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e337	It follows from the comments of the Center Party when the new settlement arrangement was discussed, that we were not particularly enthusiastic about her. At the same time, we realized that there was a need for the cooperation between KS and the Government that KS applied for on behalf of the municipalities. We think that the starting point here is to be voluntary effort on the part of the municipalities, but we think that much more could have been done to connect those municipalities that actually say yes to more refugees, but that are not allocated to more settlements, with those that are now in reception for too long. So to the situation of single minors. I think we should recognize that between these there are so-called anchor children. For the Central Party, however, the most important thing will be to intensify efforts towards those who have come here from a state of war and who need the necessary follow-up and assistance as quickly as possible so that they will not be given a much more difficult state of youth and growth. There are some skills in this area, and we have been advised by those who hold these skills, both in reception where single minors are located, and also in child-rescue institutions, that children should be moved as quickly as possible into municipalities, where there are no experts, but where there are families who are willing to provide foster homes and contribute in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e344	Let me remind the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that she also belongs to a party that has contributed greatly to the situation that is behind the debate today. One thing that is a big problem is the length of the procedure. It's got to go down. We all claim that. We have been saying that for a long, long time, but the procedure is only going on longer and longer. The Progress Party has long said and has in its programme that we need to reduce the number of asylum seekers. That in itself will solve many of the problems that we've gotten over now. I'd like to give the representative Melting Group Kleppa a couple of challenges. When, for example: As regards housing, we know that it is actually that UDI is not very happy in small municipalities. It must be painful for someone who is a representative of a district party and is the spokesman for the small municipalities. I would like a comment on that. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa was in his post on the foreign subject, and said something like it does not work. Then maybe I could say as a party representative: what did we say? We strongly opposed the creation of a foreign student. Although it has to be evaluated, hopefully not too much time, it turns out that it's right what the representative says, that it doesn't seem to work that way when it was created. Is that not true, since the Foreign Affairs Department should be an effective tool to relieve and reduce the waiting time, that other parties should actually listen a little more to the policy put forward by the Progress Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e357	I don't know what the representative Andersen is specifically aiming for when he claims that the Central Party is co-responsible for the current intrusion of refugees and asylum seekers to Norway. I have to remind you that what is the main reason is that millions are fleeing from unrest and war conditions. I believe that other people than the Center Party must take responsibility for this. Then I understood that the representative Andersen also aimed at the long process period that is currently in UDI. I expect that he has registered that the Center Party, among others. with the current municipal minister, had a strong commitment in the previous period to reduce the processing time. It is unworthy that so many people should wait that long, whether they are family reunions or unemployed. It is also unworthy that it should take so long to deal with an asylum application. When it comes to settlement in small and large municipalities, I have examples of small municipalities that have accepted refugees and where integration is successful. But I understand that there's someone who might come from a big city, who knows that in other cities in Norway, there's someone they know well, and that they're moving there. So I underlined just how difficult coercive positioning can be. Voluntary construction should also be the starting point. So finally, when it relates to the Foreign Study: the Center Party was skeptical about the creation of the Foreign Study. [[President clubs]] The spell of legal certainty was good enough. That was the argument. I will come back to that, because I see that I have exceeded my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e368	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e371	It was the government of Stoltenberg that laid out St.prp. No 101 for 2000-2001. The co-operation administration saw no reason to withdraw this proposition, and the committee position shows, although not necessarily the debate, that there is broad agreement on the proposals for the budgetary changes promoted in the proposal. I also see that there is a broad consensus on the seriousness of the situation we are in today. All branches of the foreign administration – the police, foreign stations, the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department – are under intense pressure. The number of pending cases is record high, and the length of the procedure is considerably longer than it should have been for the vast majority of cases. There are several reasons why we are there today, but one of the most important is, of course, the large increase in the number of asylum applications in the last four years. The prioritisation of asylum cases over other foreign matters has again led to an increase in the number of stays and length of proceedings for other types of applications as well. The current year's budget was originally based on a premise that there would be 7,200 new asylum seekers. This figure was adjusted to 8 000 new asylum seekers in the revised national budget. After a record influx in the summer months, with about 2 000 new asylum seekers a month, the government of Stoltenberg assumed that there would be 16 000 new asylum seekers. After falling somewhat in the last two months, it now appears that we will end up in a place between 14,000 and 15,000 asylum seekers this year. Never before have so many asylum seekers come in a year. The asylum seekers come from about 90 countries. The largest groups come from countries in Central and Eastern Europe: Russia, Ukraine, Croatia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Yugoslavia. Still many come from ‘old’ asylum countries such as Iraq and Somalia, but also from ‘new’ countries such as Mongolia, from which we have got a sudden influx of people. It is worth noting that the few sign up at the Norwegian border or at an airport. The vast majority report within the country, often without travel documents. When identity and travel travel are uncertain, many paragraphs of the procedure become more complicated and time consuming. It is clear that there are a larger number of obviously groundless applications in the current year than it has been in the past, but I do not agree with Per Sandberg who said that the majority of applications are obviously groundless. It is important that we deal with these obviously groundless applications quickly and ensure a quick return. I am concerned that the Norwegian authorities should give clear signals that it is not worth seeking asylum in Norway unless there is a need for protection. That means that I, among other things, believes that it is important to maintain current practice that rejection of the asylum application means that you have to leave the country, even if the asylum seeker is working. This, in my view, is an important signal, which indicates that the asylum institution is not a gateway to the labour market in Norway, and that – if this signal is sent out well and consistently – will mean that part of the groundless asylum applications will gradually lapse. It is not that applications for asylum and failure to accept their grounds for asylum are criminal. We have to distinguish between actually trying to get here because you feel persecuted yourself, and that we objectively believe that they are not, or that the situation is not so serious that they actually get it. The situation I have described in the foreign administration implies a need not only for greater resources, but also for the ability to convert and reinvigorate. Conversion work has been started in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs to produce results in some way in the future. This work will be continued and intensified and will cover all other aspects of the foreign administration. The following measures are now being implemented by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs: rapid procedures for dealing with asylum applications from certain areas; It is therefore true that when you come from a type of area where you are not expected to produce asylum seekers, or that is not political persecution, you have a rapid procedure for this treatment with the acceptance of the Stortinge. Here, the directorate takes on the basis of knowledge of the protection needs of the area. Everyone is given an individual treatment, and if there is doubt about the basis for protection, the matter is dealt with more thoroughly. Rapid procedures shall not be at the expense of legal certainty. The EEAS shall be well up-to-date in Norwegian immigration policy and it shall be possible to implement specific information arrangements in a short period of time. It was done both in Bulgaria and Croatia. I also believe that we need to assess it as we are getting more visa-free countries within Schengen through the Schengen Agreement, and implement it at an early stage.The Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Police Directorate are working on better procedures for cooperation with a view to speeding up procedures and avoiding duplication of work. Here's a lot to pick up by the fact that the police and the Foreign Affairs Directorate are now doing some of the same work in the initial phase. The Foreign Affairs Directorate is now investigating the transit reception system, as many have been involved. They aim at a system that takes more account of the fact that someone is going out quickly, not because they have committed criminal acts, but because we believe that they have not had a protection basis and that others will have to be in reception and therefore need more action. And let me just say a few words about this differentiation: we in Stortinget – when I sat in Stortinget – have been concerned that we are going to make sure that the receptions are a good start to the integration process. This integration process is disruptive if the neighbour has been rejected and is on its way out. And it's disturbing if you've got a job, and the neighbor won't be allowed to start working, if you get a discrimination on the same receptions. One of the reasons why we sort is that we want to create a better integration basis for those who are likely to stay in Norway, either on an asylum basis or on a humanitarian basis. A project has been launched to determine the 11,000 oldest cases of cases other than asylum, i.e.: the thing that Stortinget also in ours was very concerned about, among other things. the question of family reunification. All these applications shall have been examined by 1 July 2002. Then we're going to be done with all the leftovers that are there. The aim is that family reunification cases that have come after we started this project will not take longer than five months. In addition, UDI works to improve the service. All matters are added to a case handler as soon as they arrive, and the so-called silo principle is abandoned in these days. This means that the individual can contact his/her case handler at least for a limited period of time during a week. The service may therefore be improved and much of the criticism will thus fall away. In addition to these measures, internal reorganisations are taking place in the Directorate to increase production. There is an increased specialisation of the procedure. A department is set up to deal only with asylum cases and a department for the treatment of other foreign matters. Where it is possible to distinguish simple issues for simplified treatment, it will be done. The Directorate also assesses different ways of increasing preparedness in order to be able to avoid cases of major arrivals that are currently in progress. I would like to stress that the Government prioritises very high measures to get a well-functioning foreign management. We cannot live with a situation where the number of new requests over time is larger — and in periods much larger — than the number of decided applications. A faster and more effective treatment of asylum issues is also necessary in order to deal with the other issues much more quickly than has been the case today. Not least about this family reunion case, where I have said that the goal is that no matter how long it takes to get all the information available, no matter how long it takes. The vast majority of these cases should take considerably shorter time than this. The length of the procedure itself is self-intensive to the problems. The combination of work permits and long processing times may give wrong signals. It makes it difficult to return those who do not have a need for protection. At the same time, administrative additional loads are increasing, including: because a lot of requests have to be answered. I will therefore ensure that each stone is turned around in order to improve the organisation of the handling of foreign affairs. It will also involve considering moving tasks out of the UDI procedural system and other simplifications in legislation and regulation. I'm going to have a continuous focus on the bottlenecks to get these removed, from the first contact you have with the UDI or the police, to the possible outcome, transportation or integration in the municipalities. We need to review all the bottlenecks, and the committee leader has pointed to one of them — the interpreting service. It's a big problem. We have 57 authorised interpreters today under the authorisation system. We have one interpreter who can interpret the Mongolian refugees we've been given. Such bottlenecks take time, and the problem is that at the moment we do not have effective interpreting training in Norway at all, so here are the bigger problems that also need to be solved in our society in order for the foreign part to work. There is no reason to hide that the challenges are still huge in this area, and that it is a long way before we are in the target of satisfactory foreign action treatment, but we should at least work hard in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e428	One of the reasons for such a strong increase in new asylum seekers in recent times is that Norway has given the impression that we need a large number of immigrants. This is also supported by the government parties in the setting, so I expect that it is accepted that this is one of the reasons why we now feel a lot of pressure in relation to new asylum seekers. After the new government, Bondevik II, was established, the Minister of State has called for a large-scale labour migration of unskilled workers. If we take the decisions here today, action will be taken at the foreign stations to prepare for immigration into the labour market. Then I am not thinking about the rules that permit seasonal workers, and about skilled professionals, and a decoration of the rules that we have already adopted will apply from 1 January, but I am concerned about the signals given in the case of unskilled workers. My question to the municipality minister is: What information will the municipality minister provide to Norwegian foreign stations about the opportunities for unskilled workers to get a job here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e437	I have noticed in the debate that the Labour Party is now using the same argument that they absolutely disagreed with when the Progress Party used it against Grete Faremo when it started liberalisation with regard to family reunification, because it was not Bondevik I who did it. It started with the previous working party government. Then the Labour Party government was strongly criticized by the Progress Party just because they sent out signals. The increase we saw before Bondevik had liberalised the rules in 1997 and early 1998, among other things. The working party has been criticised for. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is now using this straw continuously in the debate to say that the debate on labour immigration is the main reason. In my opinion, this is not the main reason why we have a Norwegian discussion on labour immigration, but it is clear that it is involved. We're all going to admit that what we're saying is contributing. That is why I have also said very clearly on every occasion that it has been possible, even though I normally do not comment on individual matters, that the asylum institution is not a gateway to the Norwegian labour market. This government believes it should not be. This means that the stupidest thing you can do if you want to work in Norway is to start by applying for asylum. We are not going to make it so that people who come to Norway can live on an asylum reception at public expense and use that period to get a job contact in Norway. Therefore, we should rather liberalise the labour market, clear up other areas, so that there are other ways into Norway for people who want to work here and who have qualifications that our working life needs. We will inform Norwegian foreign stations about the legislation and regulations in force in this area at all times. As of today, it is not allowed to take in unskilled workers other than as seasonal workers. We therefore want to have a process where we want to find new legislative changes that soften the distinction between skilled and unskilled. In that case, we will send it to the Stortinget, and once the Stortinget has made a decision on it, Norwegian foreign stations will be informed about how to inform people who are interested in coming to Norway to work there. But we want to keep informed that the institution of asylum is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e446	I have to say I was a little surprised by the relaxed attitude of the Council of State to the problem we are debating today. After all, I registered that the Council of State in the Official Journal of Bergen on 22 October concluded that it is now to be opened for increased labour immigration. In this context, the Council of State also pointed to a lot that needs to be organised in Norway in order for us to deal with this. I will also be allowed to clarify a manifest misunderstanding in which the Council of State committed itself as she pointed out that the Workers' Party has also helped us to get the situation that we have today. Now I am not going to innocentise the Workers' Party in any way, but it is clear that all the figures from the Government Department show that the increasing asylum and refugee influx to Norway started immediately after Bondevik I complained that we were going to soften the refugee and asylum policy in Norway. It's her own number that shows it. It is clear that the advertising that the Council of State is now producing will have no less impact on the influx in the future. That is why I would like to challenge the Council of States in two areas. One relates to the lack of labour. We know that within Schengen there are now millions of people on a journey who have not been accommodated in any country in Europe. When the Council of State shows that all the other countries are tightening up their policies, the new government advertises that we in Norway should soften. What does the Council of State think will happen to the millions who are already on the road within Schengen? The second is that in these budget days we know that the right is very concerned, among other things. budget discipline. But now the Council of State said in that article in the Official Journal of Bergen that this must also take place a lot, among other things. in the case of residence, and that all these workers are allowed permanent residence after three years. Won't that affect Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e457	All analyses of increased labour migration show a net profit for Norway. It is much more profitable to get a working 20-year-old to Norway, even if he has family and children with him, than to raise himself — to put it that way — provided that this person is in work. Assuming we get them to work, all the macroeconomic analyses show this. That is why it is very important for me to say that labour immigration liberalisation must be linked to the fact that people have a job offer, that they can get a job, and that we do not use the labour immigration code to ensure that people who do not want to get a job come here. So to the discussion of the statistics. I have been a little further on the Stortinget and have participated in this debate a little longer than Sandberg, and I also remember the debate in the Labour Party on the liberalisation of Grete Faremos. Thus, in the spring of 1997, the Labour Party government liberalised several criteria relating to humanitarian stay, which, along with the Progress Party, was critical to do at that time. I only record laconically that the Workers' Party now chooses the same argumentation technique against us now as they rejected when the Advance Party at that time used it against them. And in a relatively short time, there was an increase. But there were two processes at the same time – the Bondevik I process and the Labour Party liberalisation in relation to some other of these criteria. I'm not relaxed in the situation we have. I'm very concerned that we're going to send out clear signals about what we want and where we want. However, I am also concerned that we should not create a situation where the shortage of labour in Norway contributes to a worsening of our opportunities to solve welfare problems in the future. In fact, the lack of labour today may result in a shortage of jobs in a few years' time. There are enough examples of enterprises that have considered moving their production out of the country, because in the short term they are unable to obtain skilled labour and have difficulties in continuing their production here. It is a problem that the Progress Party never addresses, namely the lack of labour that we have, which is actually one of the biggest long-term problems we have in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e467	I have three questions for Erna Solberg. Can we not just agree that the starting point for the debate must be that there may be a difference between the individually perceived need for protection for a person anywhere in the world and the objective – objective and objective – perception that this is a need for protection that is sufficient for a stay in Norway? The two things are kind of easy to establish. But then there are two things that seem strange to me. The Council of State argues, inter alia: in order not to grant work permits to people seeking asylum here, because this should not be an entrance, so that people can flow here and have this as an entrance to the Norwegian labour market. On the basis of this kind of thinking that we have just taken into account, and I saw the Council of State nodding its head: if you feel an individual need for protection when you come to Norway, and it turns out that the Norwegian community says that he does not have a sufficient need for protection, but that his workforce would be interesting to us, and that he in the processing process is given a work permit here and getting a job, all of these things should be a good thing for everyone, namely that he gets a job, and that the Norwegian society gets the job that we need. Then I think it seems like a panic policy to send out signals that say: No, you should not be allowed to get a job at all. The second question I have asked before: Is it a good idea to put people who feel that they have an individual need for protection, but which we believe have baseless applications, along with criminals? Is that a good idea? And the third question concerns the minor asylum seekers: what can we do for them? Finally, I just want to give you a tip. From the time I was in the Defense Department, I remember that the UN personnel were messing with the kind of sensitivities that I think some of the minor asylum seekers are also struggling with. A cooperation there might be trickery.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e482	Three questions are a lot to answer in two minutes. I start with the first: I agree that there will be a difference between the individual experience of a need for protection and what we objectively believe is an individual persecution. But there is now an influx of people from a number of countries, including the United States and Japan. in Eastern Europe, which does not have human rights problems but which clearly have other reasons to come here. And there are people from that list of countries where, after an interview round, if there are no other reasons in that interview, they will be put on the rapid treatment train. If there are other reasons or indications that they have a need for protection, you go to a longer treatment, so they are placed in a normal reception. The Bulgarians who came this summer are an example of this. They were tricked here to the country by someone who took advantage of them. Keep that picture in mind, that the Bulgarians who came in the summer are an example of such rapid treatment, and we'll probably get these flows from somewhere else as well. When you found out that we could need a person when he had got a job and lived here, it would have been okay if it had only been as simple as it was the individual's need. But here we have questions about the signal effects of what we're doing. Then we start to weaken our asylum institute, and then we start to turn our asylum institute into a job search process, and that's what we've put our foot down for. This means that there are individuals I would like to think, if they had no signal effect, they would be allowed to stay in Norway. But to save billions of dollars in the budget, to save many people for false hopes – it's traumatic to come here on false hopes – to save everyone for the kind of suffering that might occur, you sometimes have to come up with solutions that obviously aren't easy to understand for those around this individual. So to criminals: criminals are put on quick treatment if they are targeted, and then you will assess how serious that view is. In some cases — if serious — they may be held in custody during this period. When we dealt with the question of the concept of reception in ours, SV was the one who was the most opposed to us adding leadership to the compromise that the opposition reached, that we were going to make our own arrangements for criminals. I am a little surprised at the new signals coming from SV in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e493	Governments have provided clear information on how it is now responding to both difficult and important challenges. I want to ask her to deepen two points. It's a debt to a foreigner. As I concluded a previous line, the Center Party was initially skeptical about the creation of such a name. Our starting point was that the department would still have appeals to have a certain overview of what cases were pending. Then we were persuaded that legal certainty would be better taken care of in the Study on Foreign Affairs, and that there would be better opportunities for thorough proceedings. Then my question becomes: how does the Council of States follow up what has been said that this term does not seem to work after the intention per. date, i.e. not so many things will be dealt with there? This is to be evaluated, but does the Council of State do something before that time? The other area, as she said herself, is that she is concerned about removing bottlenecks. I thought that was very good. A bottleneck that was inside is the interpreter service. I want to give her the opportunity to elaborate on what plans she has to strengthen the interpreter service, which, of course, is a bottleneck today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e500	In the field of Foreign Affairs, the Government relies on us to establish a foreign student. It has to get some time to work before we can draw big conclusions. There are problems related to the processing time, to the amount of cases and to the whole foreign subject, as it is today. That was in particular at the old treatment as well. Things were in the department a long time before they ended, so there's nothing new. What may have happened is that everyone has complained. We have got a new name, and before there is a precedent and an understanding of how this will work, everyone who has been rejected has complained. To go back to the example of the Bulgarians from this summer: everyone has complained. They shall then be dealt with in the complaint system and thus affect the statistics. So that when there are few issues that go to mention, you also have to look at it in the light of what kinds of issues there are complaints about. I assume that no one in Stortinget believes that we were going to pick up some of the Bulgarians who came, so that they would meet in the denominator. In terms of the obviously slightly more groundless applications that we have talked about, some of the statistics will also reflect that we have had a different kind of inflow to Norway in recent times, which means that we have to do something in relation to it. We're constantly working with efficiency in relation to all of the terms here. We're coming along, and we've had our own internal arrangement in the Study on Foreign Affairs, which is about legal certainty and coordination. We're also going to go through the privacy around this. We believed that when we received such a judicial review body, this should lead to something in relation to how many cases went to the judiciary. Now it looks like a lot of people go to justice anyway. There are a lot of requests for conversion, and there are a lot of issues that are being dealt with, not just once, but maybe up to five times in the subject of complaints, so we have to discuss these questions. As far as the interpretation service is concerned, it is on the list of things we have to do with. I think we need to organise the demand side in order to get better education from interpreters in Norway. Then, as a major consumer of interpreters, we need to cooperate with other parts of the public that also need interpreting services, including: legal services and parts of health and social services. Here's a lot of things to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e511	I will allow myself to follow up on some of the things that the two previous replicators have been involved in in terms of labour migration. I don't think the Council of State should get away so easily in that matter. She states that the debate on labour immigration is not a cause for increased asylum flows to Norway. This she says categorically, and one can ask herself how she can be so sure of it. The setting includes: that the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers is due to the fact that the debate on immigration has led to the idea that Norway needs a large number of unskilled immigrants abroad. So this is a contradiction to what the Council of State said here earlier. I would like to know whether the Government and the Council of State will continue to have a high profile in the debate on labour immigration to Norway and maintain it, in my opinion, the incentive for increased asylum flows to Norway. For my part, there is no doubt: the debate that has taken place on immigration has been a contribution – of course, one of several – to motivate asylum seekers to seek asylum in Norway. Therefore, I would like to have an assessment, once again, from the Council of State on this. I deeply disagree with what she said in a previous line on the impact of the labour immigration debate on the flow of asylum. I want an answer as to whether it is so that the government will still have a high profile of exactly the debate that is going on about the need for increased labour migration to Norway from outside the EEA area, which I say will continue to contribute to stimulating increased asylum influx.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e520	I believe that if Andersen's representative reads the record from what I said in the previous line change, he will discover that I said exactly what he said in his line, namely that I agree that this could be one of several reasons, but I do not believe that this is a main cause. In fact, I believe that the processing time in the foreign administration is a very important reason in this context. The long period of time that makes people stay here so incredibly long that they are likely to stay on a humanitarian basis at last because they have had such strong contact with the Norwegian environment, and have planted such good roots here, can actually be an equal cause. The fact that we do not get through the procedure also means that more people stay here. I don't think you should ignore all the signals that are given. At the same time, it is important to say, as I have also said, that the stupidest thing to do if one really wants to come here to work is to seek asylum in Norway. We're not going to be more liberal even if you've been here and worked temporarily because you've been an asylum seeker. There shall be no entry ticket to remain permanent in Norway. We must clearly separate labour immigration and the institution of asylum from each other. We're probably going to do that too. It is one of the tasks considered by the Government to move the proceedings in these areas out of the UDI and over to the labour market seat or to the police. I think we somehow need to have a balance in this debate. One of the reasons for the large inflow is, among other things: that we have liberalised the rules in relation to those of whom we require a visa. As a member of Schengen, we now have more visa-free countries. As a result, applicants from countries that we have previously been able to control through visa access can now go to Norway in quite large quantities without silling through visas, without having to visit the Norwegian foreign station. This means that we have to lead where, because there are now several countries that become visa-free through the Schengen system. This means that we have to be leading was in relation to the information in these areas, so that we do not get new inflows from applicants who come to Norway because they no longer have to go to the Norwegian Embassy to get a visa. We have to adapt to these other things, and I think something that can be explained also with the other reasons that have been explained. I understand that it is pleasant to have a domestic Norwegian policy cause, but the reason can actually be things that happen in the world. Nor can we ignore the fact that the situation we have in Afghanistan will also lead to refugee flows that we have to take into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e529	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e534	It is not difficult to agree with the statement that poverty and hopelessness in large populations contribute to many wanting to improve their situation and therefore want to come to Norway. We know that it is, and we can greatly regret a difficult world situation. However, in contrast to both the SV and the Progress Party, the Right believes that it is important to stick to the asylum and refugee policy pursued in Norway today. But there is every reason to be critical of how we carry out our work in the foreign field. The dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers must have consequences for both the economy and the administration. It is necessary that municipalities now receive a larger number of those who have received a residence permit in Norway. This should be possible since the inclusion grant is proposed to be increased and since the additional grants for the settlement of the elderly and disabled have also increased. Our new housing policy, developed in consultation with the KS, which takes into account the population and geography, seems to be getting a difficult start. Many municipalities have so far said no to new settlements, and many municipalities will receive a lower number than what is proposed. Municipalities refuse, and there is still a large gap between needs and offers. We are still facing major challenges, because now that we have received a residence permit, everyone must be resident in a municipality. And now, as before, the dialogue with the municipalities is just as important. UDI’s challenges and problematic situation have been well understood. There have been positive assurances from the Council of State here. It is also important for the parties to conclude on the measures the Ministry considers necessary to prevent further increases in the number of asylum seekers with manifestly groundless applications. That all foreign stations should have up-to-date information on asylum, immigration and labour market policies must be a matter of course. With regard to the organisation of the UDI, a number of migration measures have been implemented. In particular, experience shows that rapid treatment of asylum applications and simpler reception offers will have consequences for inflows, international cooperation as well. It is important that Norway pursue a policy in line with other countries in Western Europe. Therefore, the proposal for the introduction of a temporary work permit scheme is supported only after three months. One of the most important tasks we're facing is to make the UDI and the foreign administration work better. It's a task Stortinget should be able to stand together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e547	This year, the number of asylum seekers flowing to Norway will reach a new historical peak of an estimated 14 000 to 16 000 asylum seekers from more than 90 countries. Developments in the field of asylum now seem to be coming out of control, and it is tempting to add out of control because the majority have not been willing to listen to those who have long warned against the consequences of taking too lightly on Norwegian asylum policy. As a result, the Storting now needs to resort to some panic-like measures to try to limit the increasing asylum flow to Norway. Our entire treatment system to deal with the asylum problem is simply in the process of collapsing, and Norwegian immigration and asylum policies are in the process of cutting. But let me say, for persecuted people, of course, the institution of asylum is important, and it is an expression of a necessary international humanism that we all appreciate. But on the other hand, we see an extensive and increasing abuse of the asylum institution, and the political majority here on the Stortinget are responsible for the hollowing out of the asylum institution that we are now witnessing. We have been pursuing a free-handed and liberal policy in this area for many, many years. We know that in the period 1999-2000 only got 1 pst. asylum seekers coming to Norway granted asylum. The reality in the area of asylum in Norway today is that 99 pst. applicants for asylum do not prove to comply with the requirements of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Refugee Convention on asylum, and this is remarkable. Actually, you could say that the 99 pst. that do not meet the criteria for asylum, but so it is that about half of them are allowed to remain on a humanitarian basis or through other arrangements we have in this area. And the fact that it is well known in the world that so many are allowed to stay in Norway even though they do not meet the criteria for asylum stimulates the influx of asylum seekers into Norway. And the liberalisation of immigration, asylum and refugee areas that started in 1997 and, to a great extent, also in the past, we see the results of today – an asylum press against the country that lacks a parallel. Norway is a very small country, with similar very limited opportunities for receiving a high number of asylum seekers. And we have to take the consequences of this. We are simply forced to pursue a strict asylum policy for the future and to have strict criteria for the basis for granting residence in Norway. Many more should be rejected immediately at the Norwegian border, we must stop giving generous humanitarian aid, we must tighten up the possibilities for family reunification and clearly signal to the outside world that we will pursue a much more stringent asylum policy from now on and forward. What is happening now in this area is one and only proof that the policy of the Progress Party has long stood for is the best and the right policy to pursue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e558	This is a very interesting setting. After a closer study, I have two questions for the Council of State, if she could please clarify these for me, and one comment. Int. S. No 22, at the bottom of page 1, second column, a description of the asylum immigration now taking place: ‘This implies an increased need in 2001 for the following budget chapters relating to the management of non-residents:...’;» Additional needs — there should then be a description of an estimate chapter, because it is an obligation for the Government, once the government budget has been adopted in the autumn, to remain within the limits of the budget chapters. It is a government's duty to ensure compliance with the budget. So there's an extra need here, as if it were sick money. Because people were more sick, there was a greater need. And that's an estimate. There are a number of estimates. Can the government clarify whether it is so to understand that the government is now practicing a number of the chapters that are being changed here, as if it were an estimate. And then my question is, when does the keyword «allocation» come? Or what will the Government do next year to comply with the allocation chapter? The second concerns the integration grant. If we say that the integration grant for one refugee is $80,000 per person. year, for ten, it's going to be $800,000, for a hundred, it's going to be $8 million. And for a thousand, it's going to be 80 million. kr. When the estimate in the setting on page 2, first column, says that there will be a thousand fewer than intended for integration into municipalities, how the savings can be 194 million. Do you really want to delete this item? If this was an average for a year, it would just be about. Eighty million. kr lower. So how could the savings be 194 million? kr when there are a thousand fewer who live in the municipality? The third applies to the second column on page 2. I think it is gratifying that both the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party also take note that the sharp increase in the influx of asylum seekers is probably due to both general constraints on the asylum policy in our neighbouring countries, such as Denmark and Germany, where the reasons for the Progress Party are accepted, which they have not done in the past, because of a reduction in border control as a result of the Schengen cooperation, and that the debate on labour immigration has led to the impression that Norway needs a large number of unskilled immigrants abroad. I am pleased that the Progress Party has finally come to terms with what we have said is among the explanations of the big influx. The question is what the Government will do when the inflow is above twice the government party previously planned. Will they just say yes and amen and accept asylum immigrants and grant the necessary money, or will you try to do something, as other countries do, to limit the flow?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e574	I would also like to comment on what the last speaker was talking about. It is interesting to note that the Council of State has a relaxed relationship with the allegations that the advertising of labour shortages in Norway leads to increased inflows, while the Right in the Stortinget points to it as one of the elementary problems. But it wasn't. In the past, the Council of State was at one point here in a series of discussions on macroeconomic conditions – bringing people from outside the EEA, in a way that they would serve the country and generate income. I would share what the Council of State said there, if we could have used that argument in relation to the unemployment rate we have in Norway within certain groups, because we know that the unemployment rate within some groups of asylum seekers and refugees who have stayed in Norway is up to 40-60 pst. That is why the Progress Party now places great emphasis on getting the people who have stayed in Norway to work, but not according to the current situation. I challenged the Council of State earlier today on the allegations of a shortage of labour. We probably don't agree on that. But within Schengen, I challenged the Council of States. We know that, in the Schengen area, there are now many millions of people on the move, among others. many people who have lived in some European countries through asylum applications and who are also unemployed. In fact, for the situation it is that in other countries, outside Norway, but within the Schengen area, there is even greater unemployment among people who have applied for asylum and who have been accommodated. What does the Council of State think is going to happen when the Government is going to reopen to advertise that Norway has no labour force? My question is simple: will these people who have not received work or other forms of integration in these countries come to Norway, or will they stand firm? When we then point to this with advertising, and know that the ministry now, especially in relation to the problems in the Balkans, has had heavy newspaper ads to tell us about the actual situation in Norway, will the Council of State and the new government also use such tools in the Schengen area that really determine that it is not just to come to Norway and believe that there are vacancies for them? That's the signal that's now being given. I am in a way also a little frightened – because it may also be a question – when the Council of State states to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘It’s going to be costly. Bringing them here, getting them housing, paying for Norwegian training costs money. The belief in an explosion in labour immigration is exaggerated.» Is it really the case that the Council of State can now guarantee that this kind of advertising will not lead to increased labour immigration in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e591	I assume that the Sandberg representative finally meant an increase in the number of asylum applications, not labour immigration. I hope there will be an increase in labour immigration next year, because I think we're going to lack labour. I hope they come through the ordinary way, namely by looking for work instead of using the asylum institution. I feel in many ways that I have answered some of the questions that have been raised today in several lines from the Progress Party related to issues of labour immigration. When it's about that it's going to cost, we mean, among other things. the cost to employers, and more than today, of importing labour, including To ensure that the first choice is to take those who are in Norway. In addition, the Government attaches great importance to getting something done to better integrate the people who are already here into the world of work. And in the case of unskilled workers, we are not going to deviate from the requirement that we have to search for labour first in Norway and, if necessary, not have qualified applicants, until we are allowed to import labour from other countries. So those things are taken into account. In the 26 projects under way, there are quite a number of good and exciting results in terms of integration policy. And we've already launched – and already advertised to KS – a process that we're going to try to widen out as the main norm of settlement in the municipalities, and bring the municipalities into a voluntary arrangement that we're now going to use as the main pattern of integration. So, when you get to a municipality, you get an arrangement that is individualised, that involves a combination of Norwegian training and practice, and a form of pay. The proposal for this pay bill, as it is a legal committee that has investigated, will hopefully come to Stortinget before the summer. I dare not guarantee that, because it takes some time to process the hearing opinions. In this area, I have not realized that there are really so many contradictions. The only question is whether we can get it done. So to the questions from Carl I. Hagen about the appropriations. We come back with these proposals because we see that there is a need for increases in the budget, i.e. increases in expenditure needs that either had to lead to changes in the rules – not true – or increased appropriations. The Stoltenberg government has proposed for Stortinget, and we have not withdrawn it, that these funds should be allocated, because we believe that in this area there is a great deal to be saved in the future by getting better procedures, quicker procedures. However, in the short term, there is a need for more funding to comply with the laws and regulations currently in force in relation to the treatment of individual asylum seekers coming to Norway. We may have a fundamental discussion on whether to make changes to these laws and rules, which the Progress Party has invited to several times, but with regard to the budget, it is possible that we have to make estimates for this over time, if it is more in line with the budget line for the Stortinget. For the time being, we have managed to put this into a system where we have come back to Stortingen in the revised, and now with proposals for an additional allocation in this area. In the case of the 194 million. kr, the explanation is absolutely correct. It has to be approx. Eighty-five million. kr that is the effect of this year. The rest has fallen behind from poor budgeting in the past. In fact, there has been a lower consumption in this area, plus a transfer of appropriations, which means that there is enough over-budgets at the beginning of this year. That's the answer I get from the bureaucracy on the question of why the post is higher than what should be shown by the fact that a thousand fewer have settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e610	Just for the last two things that the Council of State said. It is well that the Government also has an obligation to study and follow the Financial Regulation of the Storting. And if it's the case that an allocation is actually an estimate, in other words, that it's the events in the course of the year that control how much money goes with, you're going to give the keyword 'allocation', because you can't go on with a practice where you create a budget that doesn't really matter in the autumn. And when some of us have been negotiating with the current government parties, which come with 10 million. I'll give you $15 million. kr there and make big numbers out of it, it would be a bit nice to say that we're coming back to the harvest and adapting the budget to what seems to be the accounting. Then the budget will only be customs duty. I think the government might be able to take a look at the regulations on the appropriations and say that if you have thought and planned to pursue a policy where you are a passive spectator that there is a lot of events that govern the consumption of money, then the government has a duty – not to ask the Storting – to add the word «allocation» as a keyword, and that's all right. That the government should seriously consider, and I hope the council does. On the other hand, that bureaucracy informs the Council of State that there has been some information about some over-budgeting in addition to what was calculated, it might have been an idea to mention it in the proposition, inform the Storting of its error, instead of justifying that because there is a decrease in the number of residents of thousands, you save 194 million. kr, when the real number is 85 million. kr. You might be able to tell the Storting the full and the whole truth. I will not exaggerate exactly this in this matter, but there are some contexts in which it is actually relatively reasonable for a government to give the Storting the full and the whole truth and all the information. I also note that the Council of State had no objections now to the fact that the description of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the position on why so many immigrants come, is in line with what the Progress Party has pointed out in recent years. It's always nice when we get right – we usually get that!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e623	There's a difference between these appropriations. It may well be that some of them in the future should be estimates, precisely based on the fact that we know what an average reception space costs when a person comes and actually has to live there. The refugees come anyway, you have less control over that. I'm going to take with me what Hagen said, that we should also consider from the Government's future. So the question of what should be in the proposition. We have not entered and quality assured all the elements of this proposition that were promoted by the Stoltenberg government. The overall point is that we do not disagree with the political principles put in place there, and we agree that the need for the allocation is present. And based on that, we're going to make sure that we write much better explanations next time in these areas. So until the so-called acceptance of what the Progress Party has previously said. I've answered, I think, at least three lines attached to this before Carl I. Hagen took his three-minute post. So I've nuanced the ratio. I do not reject the fact that domestic debate has an impact, but this was the majority of the debate here. I believe that Schengen changes are more important in terms of visas, i.e. visa requirements are less important. This makes us have to work in a different way. E.g.: The influx of Bulgarians came a little rush on us this summer, and we had not been leading was. So a response to what Sandberg said: Yes, we're working on information systems where we're trying to identify when we can count on new flows like this, to see if there's areas where we need to make information material preventively relative to how to proceed if you want to get to Norway. In addition, I am concerned that we should give the second signal, namely that we reject the fact that even if you have a temporary work permit because you have applied for asylum, it is possible to stay here once you have been refused. Then you have to get out of the country, even if the company you work in could want you to stay here. This is an important signal that the institution of asylum should be protected for those in need of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e647	Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-20.ana.ud704e654	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider alternative measures as soon as possible so that groundless asylum seekers can be stopped and returned at border crossings and aerodromes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a ‘quick paragraph’ into the Foreign Affairs Act so that ‘clearly groundless’ asylum applications are rejected without any right of appeal’. The proposals are addressed to the vote.
