ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e16	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Rita Tveiten, has taken the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e66	Before we continue on the list of speakers, the President will draw attention to the fact that Mr Hagen has asked for the floor to give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e69	In his speech this morning, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik actually announced that the Government would withdraw if the Stortinget did not adopt a budget framework in accordance with the proposals of the Government Parties. In reality, this cabinet issue has changed the voting basis dramatically, from a framework budget decision to a country to a government change shortly after a government change. This cabinet question feels that the party's big group has been targeting the party's big group in order to force us to vote for what we really are not in favour of. The Storting Group has discussed this matter very thoroughly in its meeting, and by a majority decision in the big group, the Group has come to the conclusion that by this crossroads we will not vote against what we are against. We'll vote for something we're really against, because we see it as a change of government will not make sense to the country in the situation we're in now. I am grateful for being allowed to give this explanation of vote that we will subsidiaryly endorse the framework decision in the budget. S. I and the four frames of the Arabic Numeration. I am happy to have the opportunity to do so, so that at the end of the financial debate, the Biggest debate can be tidy on the question of how it is going to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e76	Then we go on to the configured list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e79	I understand that it has not been added to an increase in the programme. However, I would like to say that the budget presented by the Government and the Government parties is a very good budget, and it is good to know that we are getting a majority for this tonight. The notice of the co-operation administration to large and small enterprises across the country is ready. The economic policy and the course for it have been changed. The increasing tax increases of the Labour Party Government in recent years have been replaced by a programme where lower taxes and fines and good framework conditions for value creation are central. To me, it is a fundamental recognition that the values created in business are the basis of well-being and employment. Good working conditions for enterprises are therefore absolutely necessary to ensure the well-being and housing of the future. With this draft budget, the work of the Co-operation Board begins to facilitate businesses and for people with impending and creative character. The budget contains tax reliefs that will increase access to risk capital, improve the conditions of knowledge-based business and strengthen private ownership. Where others are content to talk about creating and sharing, the Cooperative Government is doing something about it. For Norway, it is a particular challenge to develop a high-growth business that can reduce dependence on oil and gas activities. The introduction of the euro by many of our main trading partners can bring new competitive disadvantages to Norwegian business. It is therefore particularly important to make improvements in other framework conditions. In order to reduce the distance constraints, the Government proposes to increase both traffic and road construction and to phase out the airport charges. The development of high-speed infrastructure will also be of great importance. In addition to stimulating public demand for broadband solutions, the Government is committed to ensuring competition in the market for the provision of these services. Capital access to good projects is essential for innovation and industrial development. Therefore, the removal of dividend tax is particularly important for enterprises in the start-up phase. The liquidation of the dividend tax will also stimulate the equity market and contribute to the investment of profits in enterprises where it throws the most of itself and gives the highest value creation. I believe there is a need for a comprehensive and critical review of the instrument to see what we get out of the resources used, what works, and what does not work. The co-operation administration believes that the instruments need to concentrate more on the idea, establishment and commercialisation phases of enterprises. It is particularly in these stages that it may be difficult to collect private capital and competences. Stronger private ownership is important for vitalising Norwegian business and stimulating business development. At the same time, extensive public ownership leads to unfortunate conflicts between the State's role as owner, legislator and authority. The government attaches great importance to our well-functioning capital market, and we are working to strengthen both the active private ownership and the institutional private ownership. During the spring, the Government will therefore present a case to the Stortinget with a strategy for a stronger private ownership and a reduced and professionalised state ownership. The consideration of this matter will determine the government's ownership policy in the years to come. The choice of time and the method of reducing the country's ownership will depend on the development of value and what ensures the best possible industrial development for each company. Reductions in the State’s ownership interest may be carried out by sale, share issue or a combination thereof. I believe it is essential that the State acts as a responsible and professional owner in the companies of which it will remain the owner. This means that the State must deal professionally with capital expansion, acquisitions of new businesses, fragmentation of companies and mergers with others, even if this would result in a reduction in the State's ownership. In large-scale exchanges, it is important for the owner to be able to handle such issues quickly. Whereas, in order to safeguard the values of the State and to take account of the development of companies, it would be beneficial to give the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade the opportunity to exercise the role of ownership effectively; The proposed powers of attorney are therefore an instrument for professionalising and reducing state ownership. I do not consider the extensive sale of shares in the large companies to be relevant until the Storting has dealt with the announced state ownership case. It implies that the proposed powers of sale will be used primarily in relation to the structural grips of individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e105	In June this year, Stortinget will deal with the SND message. And the right side, in part, was on one side, and all the other parts were on the other side. It was so that the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted a big cut, that SND would have lower licenses, and that they would have fewer areas for which they were to be responsible – in short, a reduction in SND's responsibility. Now, six months later, the new government is implementing this policy, which was largely abandoned in the spring. With that background, there must be every possible reason to congratulate the Minister of Industry on the full implementation of the Right's policy within the Government, and that one has thus also trampled the position of the Christian People's Party from in our time. I don't want to criticise the Right to have its policies implemented, that's what we all want to get, but it must still be allowed to criticise the outcome of this policy. This will result in a transfer of funds from newly established, small businesses to large, up-to-date groups, and from the districts into cities, and we will have a situation that makes it harder to create a new business, especially in the districts. If this budget was as good as the Minister of Industry claims, one would think it was a joy in business. The panel of protests received by the Business Committee suggests something quite different. I have to admit, however, that I have a certain understanding of the cuts that one has done when it comes to SND, because one needs that impact for other measures. What I'm less able to understand is that they're cut into the loan arrangements for risk loans. How can it be that a cut in an area that actually gives revenue to the state? I would like the Minister of Industry to confirm that this has only been done on the basis of an ideological foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e114	Let me do the last one first. As far as ideological justification is concerned, I cannot see that there has been any intervention in the state budget that has only reference to ideological justifications. Now it is the case that the adjustments made for SND result in a reduced allocation of approx. 400 million. kr. That's absolutely right. However, it might be a little bit strange that the axis is one of the ones that takes this up. Because when I look at the graph of SND's development throughout the 1990s, it's kind of a description of the curve that the Workers' Party has contributed significantly to. So it's said that it's almost spun out dramatic scenes in the nutrition committee after it's brought in the reactions of industry to SND. I have also met some people in business since this budget was presented. To date, I have not met one, not one, who prefers the state budget that the current head of the nutrition committee was involved in making in the Stoltenberg government. At the moment they get the choice between the total package that is from this government, and what was from the Stoltenberg government, I have not experienced that they are taking the wave for what is the alternative to what is here. It means that when you talk to business people and you talk about just a little bit of totality, I don't have any worse imagination than anyone else to realize that you would really have chosen there on the top shelf. Now life is such that you can't. It also applies to Norwegian business. All the meetings I have had with organisations and individual companies have ended up in the choice between what was from the Stoltenberg government in total, and what is from this government, I have not met any other wish. It should have been interesting to name some companies that have a different preference, and not least have a meeting with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e125	The Bondevik I government launched a programme for a simpler Norway in the summer of 1999. Bondevik and Sponheim went out with fire and bram and promised reductions in the form and registration obligation for the self-employed, and promises were made that if that government continued, it would reduce the load by 25 pst. in two years. After all, the Bondevik I-government did not sit long after this, and it did not get very good short-term results. The form field was reduced by 6 per million in the 8-9 months government set. But now, in the Sem Declaration, this programme ‘Simplifying Norway’ is being reopened, and I expect that our new Council of State, which is facing major challenges here, will be able to give the same promises as our former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Sponheim gave, namely to reduce this burden on business by 25 pst. within two years, or other promises, so that the small and medium-sized enterprises burdened down by the form field can gain confidence in the government currently established. So my question to our new Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade is: Will you make concrete promises so that you can see that this government has credibility in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e136	As the representative Hedstrøm said initially, Bondevik launched a program, at Sponheim – what was then called ‘Simplifying Norway’. It was a relatively detailed description of how to achieve some goals. And as the representative Hedstrom said, I guess the ambition was then 25 pst. two-year reduction. Now it was referred to a number of 6 per million. Maybe Hedstrom has figured out how long you have to sit to carry it out, if we're going to keep going at the same pace. But let me say it this way: this government intends to relaunch what was launched by the Bondevik I government in terms of a simpler Norway. And we're in the process of doing that. In addition, we take for granted in an even wider sense not only the form field, but all the things business has to deal with that is an obstacle on the road. An example of something that we have already started applies to the acquisition law. And as Hedstrøm knows well from the job in the nutrition committee, it is a law that has ‘provided’ that 2,000 companies have notified their plans for purchase, purchase, merger, etc. In fact, business costs of between 150 and 200 million have been incurred. kr, and as many might say has actually been relatively unnecessary. After working on the business committee and after many company visits, I am familiar with many of the forms that are being filled out and that really make me ask the question: who is really interested in knowing what is in these forms? If you have visited a bakery, you will receive a form to fill out how many locust beans have been sold at the place where they are produced and how many on the individual sales. Then I ask the basic question: Shouldn't we have a review and ask questions about why we should ask so much strange? And who is interested in this? I have come to the conclusion that there is a not insignificant number of people in the public sector living by sending out a form, sending reminders on a form and processing a form. And the reports sent to the Business Committee, as well as to the Minister of Industry, are of limited value in many areas. We should close these out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e149	I think it's liberating that the ideological differences between the parties at even intervals come to the surface. But I have to say that I did not feel particularly liberated when I first enjoyed the food budget from the government of Bondevik. The Minister of Industry's wish for power to sell away from state companies was what made me rather depressed. We have to admit that what is a strategic company is at risk of being bought up by foreign capital if this proposal goes through as it is now. I have to say that I am surprised that the Minister of Economic Affairs has advised the Stortinget to adopt a budget which has been given the characteristics of a direct economic enemy by more stakeholders outside the Stortinget. The government has cut huge amounts of municipal food funds, in SND and in R & D work. As a member of the Business Committee, I have received a number of requests from the business community, from large and small, rich and poor, who are going well and as weary, from municipalities and county municipalities. And they're all notifying about the serious consequences of the government's proposals on these areas. But in the financial debate, the government is certainly coming its members to the Storting and wants to pay tribute for removing the dividend tax on middle-aged, prosperous men in the Austland area. Yes, because it makes it easier to establish a new business in District Norway! And they come to Stortinget and want to pay tribute to the amazing District Compensatory Action it is to spend $1.5 billion on removing the airline passenger fee. 124 kr cheaper flight from Bodø to Oslo must make it fantastic much more profitable for business in the districts – or perhaps not? The Bondevik government has opted for tax relief and tax relief only, tax relief again, for industrial policy measures. It doesn't work; it's not targeted enough, says business itself. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry: in the Council of State dream world, where he has money for everything he wants, can he there imagine holding up support for municipal food funds, for SND and for R & D work, or is it the Council of State's ideological opinion that the state should not interfere in the development of industry in this way? And if the latter is the case, I wonder even more about what in all the world the Christian People's Party is doing in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e163	The representative Elvik was concerned about the proposal for power of sale in some state companies, and then there were SND and municipal nutrition funds. Let me take the last one – municipal nutrition funds. I myself have been the chairman of the Municipal Food Fund for six years as rapporteur. I know about many new jobs that are established in our municipality. I know many people who were established because we had nutrition funds, and not least – at least there is an overview of – how many of them were in spite of the fact that we had nutrition funds. To the extent that I have not received a signal that the Workers' Party's budget proposal was preferable to business over this, I am at least absolutely sure that everything that has to do with business and business policy has not been requested to a significant extent. When it is said from SV that tax relief is not the answer, I accept that you do not have that view, but the massive tax increases that are usually prescribed from that team, can at least not be said to be in demand in the world where I operate. Then it was about the dream world of the Minister of Economic Affairs. Let me just say that this job has been so demanding until now that there has been little time to dream. But if I was to suggest a dream I have while I am awake, it is that in Norway we need to have a framework for Norwegian growth and for Norwegian business that makes it competitive, so that investors in other countries also seem to be interesting to establish themselves in Norway, and that it does not happen that those who endure here do so despite the framework conditions we have. And then at least it's certain: let's stay away from the policy that Elvik and her co-workers stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e179	The most environmentally friendly SV in its alternative budget is that we dampen oil investment. We see that today's main debate is about how much of the money in the oil fund we are going to spend. One perhaps more important debate is: how much fossil energy are we going to take out, and how fast are we going to do that? Our perception is that the very best oil fund is at the bottom of the North Sea, or at the bottom of the Norwegian Sea. And as a well-known environmentalist named Kåre Willoch, has often repeated: pumping up oil isn't value creation, it's toasting on wealth. When we have as high an oil extraction rate as we have today, we're changing the oil wealth that could be safe below the sea level, into dollars and into large greenhouse gas emissions. And then we put the money on the fund. It has not been an easy matter to try to reduce the rate of oil extraction over the years. There have been many debates about it, but after the oil fund came, we have not been able to raise this debate. The easiest way to reduce the rate of oil extraction today is to reduce the areas in which we are looking for oil. The second simplest is to reduce funds for exploration, then to try to limit actual investment. Limiting funds to exploration and investment may be the most important simple step we can take to reduce this country's dependence on just the oil economy. And then it also has a democratic aspect. I think one should take it inward that never before has this magnification said no to an oil extraction project that has been submitted. This in itself may mean that there has been no democratic control over the rate of oil extraction, but it is also difficult to claim that we have had it. And perhaps the most important single economic leadership for our country we have almost no debate about. Reducing the rate of oil extraction, reducing oil investment, is the most important thing to be able to reduce our oil dependence. We have chosen to invest in knowledge and education instead. Knowledge is an environmentally friendly resource. It's actually the only resource we know that grows in use. And if we're going to be able to create a green knowledge society, we need this distortion away from investing in fossil, by reducing fossil investment, and on knowledge and education. I think it would have been interesting to challenge an oil and energy minister who comes from a party that is constantly stressing that this is going to be an environmental government, that so little has been addressed this main question that we are trying to travel. The other thing we have in our alternative budget is that we have to invest collectively in the transport sector. We were through a campaign where public transport was perhaps the main theme of all the big cities, especially in Oslo. And we all know the situation that is now in Oslo Sporveier, which needs a boost if we're to maintain what is, not to talk about if we're going to have further bets. We need to be realistic when we talk about public transport here in the hall. In fact, Oslo Sporveier carries twice as many passengers every year as the entire NSB makes up. And it's not always us. The T-Bahn tunnel, which runs from Majorstua to Railway Square, carries passengers corresponding to a 12-field motorway every day. The most surprising thing about it is that the capacity in that tunnel is twice that. So there's an unused twelve-field highway through the Oslo Centre that we could put in place and put into service if we had been willing to do that. Unfortunately, neither the government of Stoltenberg nor the government of Bondevik have made more money for public transport than the majority did last year. You wouldn't believe that after the election campaign and the promises we had there. The same applies to the railway. Appropriations have been reduced by 1/3 in relation to the majority framework of the national transport plan. And so it's only six months since the National Transport Plan was dealt with here. At that time we thought the majority was very poor when they would not grant more to the railway than what was done at the time. So now you have a budget where you go in order to reduce this by another 1/3. I have to say, this is dramatic in terms of developing more environmentally friendly transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e196	Norway, by nature, has all the prerequisites for becoming a leading energy supplier in Europe. We can see interesting challenges both in the international oil industry and in the electricity and gas markets in Europe through a conscious effort to develop skills and technology. Petroleum activities are very important for the Norwegian economy, not only in terms of revenue entering the treasury, but also through industrial development ensuring employment, value creation and empowerment in large parts of the country. There is today a high degree of consensus between different political parties on the main objectives of petroleum policy. That is good, because it facilitates a greater degree of predictability and stability in policy. The Co-operation Board will continue the main features of what is characterised as a consensus, while at the same time notifying the Co-operation Board of an offensive environmental and resource policy based on the objective of sustainable development. I therefore hope that I have come to a meeting with Heidi Sørensen, although of course we have to come back to the specific measures. We want to facilitate a competitive Norwegian base and a Norwegian petroleum industry that can strengthen its competitive position on both a Norwegian base and an international scale with a high level of competence. We want to build on the broad consensus that is established on, among other things. ownership of Statoil and future day management. The partial privatisation and stock exchange listing of Statoil and the sale in real terms involve a roadblock in the management of the petroleum sector that is forward-looking and adapted to new challenges and conditions of competition on the base. The Co-operation Board will facilitate a comprehensive energy policy based on the Sem Declaration. In other words, we want to see the different energy sources in the context – electricity, new renewable energy sources, gas power,enhanced measures and bioenergy. The government will pursue an energy policy that combines the objective of increased value creation with the objective of sustainable development. A secure supply of energy with sufficient flexibility is essential to achieve our objectives in most other key areas of society. The establishment of Enova shall create clear responsibilities and give a new impetus to a shift towards more environmentally friendly energy use. It is an exciting start-up that will take effect in Trondheim from 1 January next year. There are great expectations for this business, and everything should have been arranged for these great expectations to be met. By 2010 the Government aims to have new renewable energy sources equivalent to at least 3 TWh generation from wind power and at least 4 TWh from waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources. Here, Enova will play a central role. I shall give priority to this effort. This has already been expressed through the government's additional proposal to the State budget, and we know that this is also a commitment of which the Committee on Energy and the Environment is very concerned. The government will present a separate gas supply notification in Norway. It will incorporate domestic gas use into an overall energy policy framework based on the overall objectives of an energy policy for value added and sustainable development. Today almost all gas from Norwegian socket is exported abroad. We have to turn this around. Natural gas can be used in an environmentally friendly way both as an energy source, as raw material for industry and in the transport sector. This is another area that I want to give significant political attention and time. I see it as important that Norway should be a leading energy supplier to be at the forefront of the development of forward-looking solutions. Through a targeted research and development effort, we can imagine a situation where new, modern gas power plants that deal with the CO2 problem in an environmentally friendly way can be introduced before conventional gas power plants will be built. Let me just end up for the sake of order – since the percentage and the amount are slightly intertwined – clarify that the government is basing on a fixed amount of $2,690 million. kr in the case of dividends from Statkraft. It will clarify this and remove the uncertainty and any unforeseeableness that may lie in the two formulations that parallel the Government's position on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e218	During the 1990s, the dividend policy of Statkraft was discussed here in Stortinget. Last spring, a final decision was made that no more than 50 pst should be taken. dividends from Statkraft. The Christian People's Party was then involved in a capital injection to strengthen the company. But then on the first occasion, the government is increasing the dividend from Statkraft to nearly 90 pst. I have to ask what is the Government's policy in this area. A private company could never accept such a dividend policy. Where is the Council of State position in relation to the fact that Norway should be a leading energy nation in Europe? Then I'll go over to a completely different field. The oil companies operating in Norway now require new employees to live in the Stavanger area. They also require that one should live no less than half an hour from the base if one is to be awarded an apprenticeship contract. This is an unacceptable regulation of the free time of employees and tax revenue of District Norway. The Minister of Oil and Energy has instruments in relation to oil companies if he wants to use them. Based on the attacks that the Government of Bondevik has already made in relation to the districts, I expect the Council of State to take advantage of the possibilities that he has to sort out such unsustainable developments in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e225	In terms of dividends from Statkraft, this has probably varied over time. And I have no problem at all confirming that this time the proceeds from Statkraft have been particularly high. In addition to the 75 p.m., equivalent to 2.5 billion kroner, to which the Bondevik government has provided, there has been an additional 190 million at the time of the Stortingen treatment. kr. But I just have to make the percentage then notice that it amounts in percent to 80,5 pst, not 90 pst, which was mentioned here in the post. Now it is the case that the Workers' Party has also discovered that one can finance additional well-being and priority tasks through an increase in the proceeds of Statkraft. And according to my knowledge, the Workers' Party now in Stortinget in addition to the Yellow Book, which they themselves provided, has added another 667.2 million. kr, corresponding to 72 pst. of the result. It's also a record amount. And then, of course, you can discuss what's right and what's not right. I want to make it clear, in the light of the relatively high yield, that the government assumes that the number that is fixed is what State power can relate to, and that one removes the uncertainty that could be in that one fixed this through one percent. Then one will first know this out in the new year, when the accounts are settled. The uncertainty has now been removed, the unforeseeableness is now gone. With regard to new employees who have to live in Stavanger, I would say that this is something that employees' organisations should take up with the oil companies. There are negotiations and meetings between the employee and the employer. Of course, I should like to consider to what extent the Council of State might also be interested in the issue, but it primarily belongs to the negotiations between the employee and the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e236	It is unfortunately a fact today that the vast majority of our gas resources are exported out of the country, to which the Council of State has now come. Our gas resources should be much more able to be used domestically as an energy source, both in industry and in households. Natural gas is also suitable in the transport sector and as raw material in industry, and of course also for power generation. In the Sem Declaration, the government says that it will ‘make more use of natural gas for domestic value creation’. This is also repeated in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4, and so far everything is fine. However, these beautiful words are not followed up with increased appropriations for the purpose, and I am thinking in particular of support for the construction of gas infrastructure. My question to the Council of State is therefore: When does the Government intend to follow this up with concrete action, and at what time does the Government intend to present the overall strategy for the use of domestic gas requested by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e249	The quotations that the representative Mr. Waksdal now took out of the Sem Declaration, and what he otherwise filled in for himself, promise well in relation to the ambitions that the Government and I have in terms of making greater use of natural gas domestically. It'll bring us from a pure commodity export to more processing that commodity here at home. I just have to add that with the large volumes of natural gas produced on a Norwegian base, it will in any case be a modest part we can use domestically. But as little as is being used today, there is every reason to have a renewed strategy for more domestic use of natural gas. The representative Vaksdal calculated some of the purposes, and I fully agree with them. I think it's good that it indicates that we can have a common strategy here. I have also been concerned about this as a wholesale representative. And I can promise the representative, Mr. Waksdal, that I don't have such a short memory that I don't take this with me also in the government and the occasion I now get as an oil and energy minister to follow up these ambitions. Then ask the representative, Mr. Waksdal, when you want to follow up on infrastructure support. Clearly, if we want to use natural gas to a greater extent, we must also come up with a system that can support infrastructure. The Sem Declaration said something about what we don't want to support, namely a pipe where at the other end it's a conventional gas power plant, but we want to support all sorts of initiatives relating to the environmentally friendly use of gas. We must have time for this in the Government. I'm working on the gas message. It shall be presented to the Government. We're going to get a code up there. And when the government is done with its treatment, this comes to the Storting in the form of a gas message. Hopefully it will be in June, and then during the fall, depending on when they can take this, the Storting will be able to give its support and possibly make the recordings with which the Storting wants to supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e256	Let me first just comment on this with the gas message. I hope the Council of State takes up an evaluation of what has happened in his hometown, Haugesund, in relation to what actual greenhouse gas reductions you can get from such investment. And some of the way to bet on land-based gas use must be that a non-elevating greenhouse gas emissions, but can actually help reduce them, such as one. has done in Haugesund. And then an evaluation of it needs to be included in the message. So I'm going to start by giving credit to the state council when it comes to having a tongue in my mouth, as we say in Stavanger, and putting the foot down and telling the gas power plant in Forest that there's no subsidizing of the pipe systems there, at least not until one has discussed this in the mentioned gas message. So there I thought the Council of State has acted as he should. It also makes the starting point for cooperation with the environmental party S.B. easier when he is clear on such matters. But then the problems quickly report relative to subsidising, for example. gas power plant or infrastructure. Because when a person travels a little further north of the country, the Council of State has to be the contractor of a gas power plant where significant amounts of CO2 are to be emitted. There must be one more thing before Stortinget has discussed the climate message. One should also do so before the state council Brende's notification of the marine environment comes. And that's where the logic is broken. State councils must do some good to see if it is the right order selected. Finally, Statkraft. The Christian People's Party has cooperated with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party to maintain ownership, concession law and the Home Fall Institute when it comes to State Power. Is it the Minister for Economic Affairs or the EU/EEA that is now pressing the Christian People's Party on the defensive in the matter of ownership of Statkraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e267	On the last question, I would just like to stress that the Government has not yet taken a position on this matter. We're going to have to get back to that. But to put it this way: there are no outside forces pushing the government or state power in such a decision. It had to be based on purely strategic deliberations on what would be useful for efficient trading in an open energy market, where competition today is, in a completely different way than in the past, an important premiscuous supplier. Governments have a significant role to play in ensuring efficient sales in the power market. And if they are to continue this important task, they must also have the opportunity to structure themselves so that they can act on the market in line with the new framework conditions. It is not certain that the way in which Statkraft has been designed and put together on the owner’s side is equally appropriate and good for the future challenges compared to what was good and decent some years earlier. In the case of Snow White, I would recommend both the representative Langeland and others to get acquainted with what is the Government's policy, expressed in the Sem Declaration. Snow White has got its own formulation, a separate section, where one in detail has prescribed how the Government will treat this project. There's been a debate about Snow White, I'm not hiding it. I have also said openly that I have previously been skeptical about the Snow White project. I've also said no to that. But there have been so many environmental and climate challenges related to this expansion that I wanted to get more acquainted with the project before making a decision. Now that I'm the Council of State, I have the neat and neat condition that I'm dealing with the Sem Declaration, which is the government's political basis. There I have taken the initiative to postpone the temporary treatment of Snow White, in order to carry out a proper procedure. However, I have submitted a procedure aimed at the Storting to be able to deal with this matter by 1 March 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e277	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e280	The Bondevik II government budget for next year is a blow on the face of many of us and is especially a greeting to District Norway. The government has set its policy agenda. They want to give more to those who already have the most. It's a serious picture being drawn. This means not only a shift in the lines of rural policy, but also a complete change in the course of Norwegian policy – to the worse for most people. I guess we'll see about that for too long. A large part of the bill is covered by cuts in support schemes for the districts. Business policy is becoming heavily harmed under the strong priority of tax relief. Enterprise policy has been replaced by a share market policy. The acceleration of SND is a major step backwards for those who want to drive business development around this country. The State budget means well over DKK 1 billion less for development projects in Norwegian business. In particular, it will affect small and medium-sized and newly established and unborn enterprises in terms of development and innovation. The company after the enterprise has received the necessary drag help in this way. This will have dramatic consequences. Government party signals have been given on the importance of district policy and rural development. This year's budget shows the exact opposite. The cuts come at a very unfavourable time, when we need innovation in Norwegian business and the state venture capital more than ever. The districts are struggling with relocation, and it is even more important that we focus on business development to contribute to housing in the districts. The proposal put forward here is of such a nature that it could mean the winding-up of today's SND system, built up since 1993. SND will not be able to maintain the customer structure, with offices in each state, and most of the development activity will fall away. What's also worrying is that next year the government will cut 600 million. kr for agriculture and 300 million. kr now in the last half of this year. This will lead to considerable uncertainty in agriculture. What will also help to weaken the districts is the proposal to remove the defrosting premium for operations. The result is that the petrol is going to be about 50 cents more expensive, that's probably a cut that hits hard. During the election campaign, Højres leader Jan Petersen promised to increase the tax deduction for the union quota and freed him of all kinds. LO members. Now he turns his back on the same one after the right has occupied the government offices. The lifting breach has been documented in writing, with the manager's own handwritten signature. The letter is dated 6 September 2001 and it says: ‘Right will extend the scheme, net of contributions/quota, to non-governmental organisations and increase the scope of deductions. The trade union quota shall be capable of being deducted within this increased framework.’;» - Enough of a lift break. We have seen a slight increase in the numbers of the unemployed this autumn. The most worrying thing about these figures is that the proportion of the unemployed among immigrants is much higher than the average in the population. For the Workers' Party, good refugee and asylum policies are also good employment policies. We have a job to do to get the most out of work. Then it does not keep increasing the pot for daily allowance, we need to be able to offer measures. This is why the Workers’ Party proposes to increase by 500 action places to next year, in addition to the Stollenberg Government’s proposal of 8,200. We're almost getting more long-term sickness and disability than we have industrial workers. Therefore, the Memorandum of Understanding on an inclusive working life is of great importance. The budget and the social security budget are absolutely essential instruments for the authorities to be able to fulfil their part of the agreement. Therefore, the Working Party cannot agree to cut 30 million. kr in Aetat’s operating budget, as proposed by the Bondevik Government. This budget is an approach that points to a society with greater economic differences, more focus on market forces and a tougher working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e309	In my opinion, the budget that we have been told is a very good framework for Kommune-Norway. There are a few years when such growth has been incorporated into the framework for the examination of the budget line in the autumn. It will come after a year, 2001 when the total increase in income in the municipal sector will be greater than it has been since 1997 and the two years will appear to be the two best years in the last 20 years for growth in the municipal sector. I want to comment on some of the things relating to the budget. First of all, I would like to say something about the debate we have had on the deficits in the county council, especially related to the hospitals. I would first like to stress that the deficits we see now, for the moment are primarily about forecasts. No one knows what the deficit in the hospital sector is going to be. Secondly, it is quite important for us that the signals we have given in the draft budget, which are based on what the Stoltenberg government also did in this area, have shown a way of dealing with these deficits. So there's a $1 billion grant for holiday money that's not tied to previous expenses. This money can be used to cover deficits in county municipalities. Grants have also been granted to cover hospital debt. Municipalities may, if necessary, use part of this grant to cover deficits. This implies that no county councils need to be left with an unmet deficit after 2001. The county councils that need to set up this way will be left with a slightly higher long-term debt, i.e. not a short-term deficit that they have to deal with within the usual four-year phase, but a debt that they have to deal with over much more years. This means that there is no basis for saying that the deficits in 2001 will have a significant impact on the activity of the counties for 2002. It's possible to avoid that. In addition, the Government of the budget has announced that the revised national budget will assess the financial settlement as a result of the state acquisition of hospitals in relation to each county municipality in order to see whether there are any particular negative outcomes for some county municipalities. That means that we believe that it is possible for the county councils to live with the arrangement adopted today. In addition, we have said that we will return to the pension expenditure question in the revised national budget, because we do not know today what pension developments are going to be like and what the payment requirements are going to be for 2002. We believe that we have mainly helped the municipalities for 2001 by allowing them to withhold the additional tax revenues that have been documented beyond the harvest. There has been a lot of criticism of regional policy and district policy in this debate to the Government. I want to say that it is right that this government is changing regional and district policies. That doesn't mean we're betting less, but we're betting differently from what's been done in the past. We want more targeting of district policy, while wanting more focus on the framework conditions for business in the districts. Thus, instead of receiving contributions through various social welfare schemes, we want the industry in the districts to be viable primarily on their own premises. Then the most important thing we have in focus is to bring down the cost of business. And one of the costs we have in District Norway is, among other things, that it is more expensive to travel. In any case, in large parts of District Norway and in regional policy, the airport charge has been perceived as a problematic issue linked to the fact that it is more expensive to locate things outside the central Oslo area due to higher costs. Therefore, it is good that we remove the airport charge also for the districts. And it is a bit striking that the representatives of the Workers' Party, such as, for example, in this debate has said that this will not help North Norway, forgets to say what is the truth, that we would have to impose a levy on all trips in Norway because of ESA requirements, so that we would have to level it all over the country. The alternative to today's model, if we were to maintain an aerodrome charge, would be an airport charge that would have hit all travellers from anywhere in North Norway – if we were to maintain it. We've removed it. That means a relief. For a two-child family, it means a relief that is more than 1000 kroner on a trip-return trip to grandmother, if she happened to live in other parts of the country. It means something to the economy of most families.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e327	I noticed that the Council of State underlined the importance of the appropriations proposed for the municipal sector. I welcome the agreement in it with the proposal put forward by the Government of Stoltenberg. The Council of State underlines that this government is changing district policy, and it has also been a central theme in today's debate. It changes the district policy so that the government goes against what was the majority's view in the treatment of the district notification in ours, against what was the Christian People's Party's view in the treatment of the Storting in ours, and for the view of the minority – what was the Right's view in the treatment in ours. But another area is also interesting, and that's the division of tasks between the different levels of government. Here, too, there was a clear difference in treatment in the Storting, where a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, among others. agreed to transfer the tasks of environmental protection and agriculture from the county office to the county. The right had a different vision. I note that the Council of State has now sent letters to a number of different bodies where she is stopping the process as a result of Storting's decision. Let me underline that, among other things. Christian People's Party at the time stated the following in the setting: ‘These members refer to the Government’s proposal for the transfer of tasks in agriculture and the environment from the county office to the county. These members agree that such a transfer can contribute to greater involvement in environmental issues and sustainable resource management. The decentralisation of tasks and powers is important in order to contribute to greater proximity to decisions.’;» I have also noticed that in today's Evening Post and Municipal Report today, the municipal political spokesman of the Christian People's Party, Ivar Østberg, makes it very clear that he stands by the decision of the Christian People's Party. Will the Council of State in this matter base the view of the majority of the Grand Duchy, the view of the Christian People's Party to ground and the view of Eastberg? Or will she base the view of the Greatness Minority, her view of reason, and the Right View? That's what matters now. Will she still go against what was the majority of the Storting, and rather build on what was the Storting minority?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e354	To start with the first invitation, or that we have joined the Stoltenberg government, I would say that it is such that the municipal arrangement adopted today lies in the middle of the Right, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party meant, and the Christian People's Party meant by the treatment of the municipal proposition in ours. We have increased the municipal framework somewhat in relation to what the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party proposed, as we stood before, and as the Stoltenberg government failed. That framework has increased somewhat, so that we are in the middle of what the Christian People's Party proposed, namely 500 million. kr more than the rest of us. So in this area, we've had a fairly broad consensus, and not so much distance. So to the division of tasks: what we've said is that we take ‘time out’, to say it in bad Norwegian. We have said that we need some time to work through the principles of the Sem declaration, the principles that the new county municipality should not imply that the county municipality becomes over-municipal in relation to the primary municipalities. That is what the Labour Party said in the debate here in the Chamber. I specifically asked the Workers' Party's spokeswoman about this, and she said that they did not allow it to become an overcommuner. When we then started to review how to implement it in practice, and which authorities to transfer, we quickly got into the matter of over-municipality. So we have said this in the Sem declaration that the county municipality is not going to evolve. This means that we are now going through what we are going to transfer in relation to agriculture and the environment. We have a prejudice-free discussion related to this, and we have said that we will conclude in January/February. In the letter that went to the county officials and county councils about this, we have also clearly stated that if it were to become relevant from that conclusion that we did not follow the majority decision of the Stortinge, we will of course come back and get it anchored in the Stortinge. But right now, we're actually going through how we're going to solve this. I have to remind you that the Workers' Party itself said in the debate here that they did not want the county council to be overcommunist, and we feel that in this work we must guarantee that they will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e363	I noticed the posts of the Council of State. I would like to add that I think it is uplifting that the Government, both in the Sem Declaration and in its supplementary proposition, announces a positive view of the competitive outsourcing of public service production, for here it is really a formidable job to do in the public sector. Here we almost need a little revolution. After all, the Solberg State Council itself, in its time as a wholesaler, has made several proposals to facilitate the competitive outsourcing of the monopoly public service production. Norwegian municipalities have gradually become very expensive in operation, much due to the fact that the municipality itself has had an approximate monopoly on performing and operating all public welfare services under its own control, without breaking with more efficient competition of any kind. The municipal welfare monopoly has been the sole provider of municipal services to the inhabitants of most municipalities until today. But when the Government now promotes its additional proposition to the government budget, it says that the government needs to have some more time to investigate the use of competition. Now it is the case that the members of the government parties in the suspension say that they will at least have cleaning into the VAT compensation law from 1 January 2002, even if it was not proposed by the Government. But that's not the point. Nevertheless, the party wants to go further. In fact, we want to make the VAT compensation law itself general. I therefore hope that the Solberg Council can confirm that she will be a keen driver in the future work of the Government to introduce competition in all relevant areas of public service production. Can the Council of State confirm that this work is a high priority matter which will be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment as soon as possible in the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e372	I could have basically just said yes, I will, and then went down again and sat me down. We fully agree that there is a need for competitive outsourcing, and that there is a need for the state not to make competitive outsourcing unprofitable for the municipalities, as has actually been done. It's nice with all the representatives who usually talk nice about municipal autonomy. In one area they shall not have autonomy and that is in the area of choice of service provider. There you have to have a 24 pst. buffer to prevent this competition. In the case of clean-up – originally a proposal from the beginning of the 1990s that I was part of, a private proposal in Stortinget – it has been completed to be taken out. That's the practical reason why we're saying that we can do it pretty quickly. We need a little more time to make good rules in terms of general VAT compensation. It's simply the technique that has to be proper. If we choose VAT compensation or another form of equality, it's not 100 pst. certainly still, but we're going to make sure that there's no disincentives to the outsourcing of the municipalities, and we're going to make sure that we get this done in the next year. In any case, from 2003 onwards, my ambition – and that is also the Government's ambition – is to be able to carry this out and be fully equal in Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e379	I have registered that the government is quite healthy against the majority that was in the Storting in ours in terms of quite so many large, heavy matters that have been mentioned here before today. What amazes me more is that the government also disagrees with its own view of important matters from in ours, sail if it actually has a majority in the Stortinge for the same view now, and it revolves around, for example. on hospital accommodation. In the spring, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center parties of the Municipal Committee agreed on the principles of hospital settlement. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party, now in the Government, even thought that the scheme they had come up with was not such that the county councils could solve their tasks after that settlement, and that it was not in line with the goals that those parties could pursue. In Stortinget, the Left, which is a government party, also voted for the proposal that was then voted down by the Labour Party and the Advance Party. I record that when the Council of State is on the pulpit today, she says that in this area she is building her policy on the proposals of the Stoltenberg government. I could imagine asking, what in the world is the reason for that? The government actually has a majority in Stortinget, along with SV, for the view on this matter that all the government parties had in June, and that had been very important, because the county councils are now in a completely different situation than the state councils actually describe. They have to go ahead with advanced offers with both axe, sharp and soon dynamite to get away so much that it fits with the budgets. Has there been any consideration of the Progress Party in this budgetary procedure which has been so essential to the Government that they had to oppose their own views? Or do they still agree with the principles laid down in the municipal proposition in ours? The Council of State must also be able to indicate whether the Government intends to follow those principles properly when it sets out its revised national budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e390	When we dealt with the hospital settlement in our house, there was one essential element that the Stoltenberg government has introduced after the time, which was not in there. It was the debt relief mechanism that has now been introduced, which allows deficits to be converted into long-term debt – i.e. using the debt settlement on the hospital side to cover the deficit incurred. There's a pretty big difference in relation to what was said before the summer in terms of being able to deal with the deficits that are. Then we've said that we're going to go round with the county councils to find out if there are any people who have come out of hospital settlements particularly badly, and report back on it in the context of the revised national budget. What we proposed, and together with the SV and the Central Party before the summer, was a completely different methodology from that chosen by the majority, namely to negotiate with each county municipality, based on some principles, and arbitration. We took note when the harvest came, that you had just finished at that time stage – you can't go to that step when you've done all the other things that were in the arrangement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, among others. in the case of the additional discretionary funds allocated to the county councils. It has made us feel that it has not been natural to go back to the original setup that was presented by a minority on the Storting, because we had gone too far in the second process. Then there are some principles from what we've been dealing with in our day, which I've been going to make sure that we're involved in the conversations we're going to have with the county councils about how they've come out, whether there's someone who's come out very badly, and look at the activities in relation to it. However, I still believe that the mechanisms that are now in place – the methodology that has now been implemented by the Stoltenberg government – should be followed up further. It's going to be incredibly inexorable if we're going to start drawing out what's already in place, and then put up a whole new set of principles that the minority wanted in connection with that scheme. Personally, I believe that the minority model would probably have been better, but sometimes the train has gone for such things – especially when we have come so far that the hospitals actually transfer from New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e405	Representatives of the government parties have now repeatedly been pointed out that the Co-operation Board is responsible for a system change. What we can clearly see from this system change today is that the Cooperation Government gives the most to those who have the most from before, while tightening up and exacerbating the situation for those who have the most difficulty. This is particularly the case in fiscal policy and in the use of instruments vis-à-vis industry and districts. As a consequence, this policy has a well-being and social bias. The aim of the Centre is that the welfare policy we are going to pursue should be to provide everyone with security and to create a fair distribution of income and living conditions. Much is good in Norway, but for those with the most difficulty, it is not even a poor comfort. Children living in families with severe poverty problems — some of them have a home in their homes — young people who have major problems of existence and older people who die alone are the conditions with which we have to do something, so that it is not part of Everyday Norway. The centre party wishes to rectify these conditions with both short-term and long-term measures. We need to repair and correct the distortions in the short term, and in the long term we need to prevent and benefit from getting a better, fairer and harmonious society. A more robust and at the same time softer society requires resources for a better social development, where everyone can feel well-being and well-being. I have previously spoken from this pulpit that we should have a general debate on the state of health of the kingdom. It should possibly have as its job title: how to create the good life in Norway – for all? Such a general review of the state of health of the country must include an overall approach far beyond the framework of the health and social budget. All the Scientific Committees in the United Kingdom should be involved to shed light on roles and responsibilities so that barriers between sectors and disciplines could be dismantled where necessary. The aim of the Centre Party is to create a society in which resources used for prevention are investment for the acquisition of income. If we are able to prevent in a proper and good way, we will be able to save a lot of expenditure on many budget lines. But if we are to succeed in this prevention work, well-being and living conditions must be created for people where they live, so that this better-functioning society can feel on body and soul. All in Norway have at least one thing in common: we all live in a municipality. Everyone grows up in a municipality, gets his education there, has his work, his place of residence, his care there, and eventually ends his life there. From this point of view, it should be possible for all to realise that it is particularly important for municipalities to be able to carry out the Community tasks that the population needs through the life cycle. Here at Stortinget and in the government quarter, we have many opinions about many tasks that the municipal sector is required to do for the benefit of the population, but we don't have the same amount of money to send to solve the assigned tasks. The mismatch between the resources needed and the expected performance of the service makes the policy debate and frustration break. This does not serve anyone, except that it seems to be good ammunition for those who at any time are closest to French shooting at the municipalities and the public sector. The Central Party, through its 2002 alternative state budget, has again made proposals to strengthen the local economy. We see that this is imperative if, among other things, the growing environment of children and young people should be improved. If the youth is to meet a training offer relevant to the interests and choices of the route, both the resources of the school and the conditions of the students must be strengthened. Should professionals have a job offer where they live, for example: to be able to use local resources, it is necessary to facilitate this through the use of tools and positive framework conditions. If sick and caring, whether old or young, are to have a safe and proper life with opportunities for self-expression and an active life based on their own assumptions, there must be sufficient resources for organisation, support and care. The Centre’s draft budget has given priority to these tasks, both by strengthening the local economy and by strengthening housing policy, children and young people’s education and training opportunities, the opportunities for economic development and the provision of care and rehabilitation. It is also prevention to ensure that persons in need of rehabilitation after injury or disease are provided with adequate training and rehabilitation so that they can regain optimum functioning. For many, it means that they can go back to work, and for everyone, good rehabilitation means that they can work best in their own everyday life. This creates well-being, value creation and reduced costs both for individuals and for society. The center party is concerned that part of this that I have now been in is going in the wrong direction. Among other things, we now believe that there is a great need for a lift in the rehabilitation offer to people. The offer we have today is in the process of wondering if we do not see the need to invest more resources from the state. In general, it is private actors that offer training and rehabilitation. With the efforts of the Cooperative Government to bring forward the private actors in the health and care sector, it is striking that they have not shown greater commitment here to ensure a good and necessary health offer with an all in all very well-functioning private sector as an actor. I would like to come back to the individual areas and proposals for funding in which the Central Party is involved when dealing with the health and social budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e441	A budget is a signal as to which tasks a government prioritises, and so it is also for those batches that are in opposition. For the Progress Party, our concern about the draft budget for the justice sector is great. There must then be a paradox and, at the same time, some of the present representatives are somewhat uncomfortable when the decision is to be taken. Where are the major efforts in crime prevention and settlement with the increasing crime reported by most parties during the election campaign? You can wonder if everything was only a big word without substance, with the hope that the voters' memory is short – very short. For the Progress Party, the conclusion is the opposite. Our efforts in the justice sector are significantly higher than before, which means that we will do something about today's societal problems, not just talk about them. In our society, which is one of the best people to live in, there are still people who fear to meet everyday life. There are older people who fear everyday crime through threats from relatives, bagging, who are tricked up by ‘smart’ sellers, and who are forced to give away their medicines and pensions. Young people are being blackmailed, they are being robbed of clothes and mobile phones. And not least there are many young women, preferably with their children, who live a life of fear in their own homes and who are afraid of known invaders. What all of these and others who are victims of crime have in common is their fear of those who commit crime. The party of progress has been and must remain the greatest threat to the criminals. In today's system, where society in many cases has more understanding of the cause of the attacker than of the victim's situation, the Progress Party takes the side of the victims, of course. When you go through the different chapters of the justice sector, it is not to be avoided that sometimes you wonder if the descriptions are real. For example, a large increase of 52,6 pst is shown. within a chapter. When you read the content, it turns out that the increase is mainly due to the introduction of the VAT reform and thus is not a major real increase – just a game of words. This does not exactly promote respect for us politicians. In fact, neither the outgoing Stoltenberg government nor the new Bondevik government have taken greater responsibility in the justice sector. In fact, both of these governments are hiding behind beautiful words, without being followed up by funds. So most people can still wonder how crime is to be combated here in the country, and so do we in the Progress Party! What is needed must then be reasonably clear: a continuous strengthening of the police and prosecution authorities, an additional strengthening of the courts and criminal justice. It's only when it happens that the results will come. We have made such a commitment in the Progress Party in our alternative state budget. We strengthen the police and prosecution authorities by about 300 million. kr, we strengthen the courts significantly, and not least the criminal justice system. And of course, in addition to that, we'll keep doing these problems in a new way. That this is necessary is a matter of course when one sees the lack of appropriations the other parties are responsible for. We'll have to dry where the others have doubts. The aim of alternative solutions is to show that what was previously obvious is not necessarily what it is anymore. In the past, unfortunately, it was natural to stand in the queue because the capacity was too low, new solutions can be found today. For the Progress Party, such solutions are e.g. to purchase settlements abroad and to make use of former defence facilities and, where appropriate, civil protection facilities in order to exclude some of today's settlement queue. It's a fact that there's something like 1,600 people in a reconciliation queue. Today's situation is unacceptable, because those who have committed a criminal act must settle themselves, and not least those who have been subjected to crime must see that offences are consistently punished. There is little respect when a crime victim meets his attacker on the street, when he should certainly be in prison. In the period after 11 September, there has been more uniform police in the capital than is usual. As we can see, this has led to a reduction in crime in Oslo. In other words, the medicine the Progress Party has shown. More police means less crime. As you can see, a social investment pays off. Another moment is that as a result of more police, more criminals are taken. In this way, the courts are given increased tasks, which means that they too need to be strengthened. The Progress Party has taken the consequences of, and provided the necessary resources. After the police and courts, the criminal justice system comes, and if it is to be avoided that there are ‘bottlenecks’ in the system, it also needs to be strengthened. Therefore, as the sole party on the Stortinget, the Progress Party has carried out a continuous strengthening of all stages of the criminal proceedings chain. The problems that exist today would have been minimized with our budget. One might wonder, therefore, that no one sees the obvious necessity for a review and strengthening of all joints.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e469	The Storting writes history today. For the first time in many, many years, a budget is to be adopted on the basis of a cabinet question — yes, it has been so long since such a thing has happened that you probably have to resort to the history books to find your husband. Getting a budget adopted by a cabinet issue is, of course, a parliamentary opportunity, and it is being proved today. But it is also a serious sign of weakness. This means that there is no majority for the most important document handled by the Stortinget and that the Government governs throughout the year. This means that when all adjustments and revisions are to be made in the budget along the way, there is no basis in the Stortingen to build on when it is to be implemented. This means that the discussion in the technical committees is going to be inconspicuous and difficult, because there is simply no consensus as to what the various frameworks in the various areas actually mean in practical policy, and we can even risk not having a majority in the various committees on how to use the money. The question is, of course, whether we get new cabinet questions in the individual framework areas. The government has simply not been able to get a majority for a budget in the main hall. It's historic, and it's a powerful sign of weakness. It is presented as if cabinet issues are almost a normal part of our parliamentary life. That's not right. According to a study by Rune Karlsen at the Institute for Social Research, after World War II, cabinet questions have been asked 18 times. Some of them are also cabinet issues where the government has gone in to stop proposals from the Storting, not always has it been the government's own policy that was to be forced through in the Stortinget. In fact, in the last 20 years we have only had five cabinet questions in Norway, today we have got the sixth. It actually means that Prime Minister Bondevik has been responsible for half of all cabinet issues in the last 20 years. There's more than one cabinet question per. years, and there is probably a Norwegian record for a prime minister in asking cabinet questions. In comparison, Harlem Brundtland, on his nine years as Prime Minister of Minority Governments, did not raise a single cabinet question. It also means that the game of politics is becoming more important than politics itself. We see how the government, the timing of the cabinet question, group meetings, positions become more important than what is actually the content of the budget spaces that we are discussing. It also means that the distance from what people see is important in their everyday lives, and it also gets bigger, and that means that the dispensation of politics, and perhaps even the contempt of politicians, is increasing. I think it's unfortunate, I think we've been served with clearer political conditions, clearer majority and minority constellations, so that not only we have to decide, but also the voters can relate to it. I believe that the violations of promises that the new government stands for also help to increase the distance between people and politicians. In the election campaign, the current government parties promised more to a number of sectors – 1 billion more to hours at school, more to research, more to the local economy, more to defence, more to study funding. The result we see now, just a few weeks later, there are a number of broken promises. Worst is perhaps the more solar lifting break in relation to the study funding, where the government parties – Right, Left and Christian People’s Party – as late as in June this year the Labour Party government criticised not enough to provide study funding for the autumn of 2002. So when they get to the government offices themselves, they're going to take away 260 million. kr from the proposal we had, and breaks a clear promise that this would happen from the autumn of 2002, as they wrote in Innst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001 in the context of the review of the reform of higher education in June. I remember that as late as September, I took part in the election campaign in a debate with Wage and the current State Council, Dørum, where it was said that it was just to make sure that the Labour Party lost its majority in Stortinget – among others. together with the Progress Party – the study funding would work out. I wonder how the state councils feel when they see themselves in the mirror in relation to the promises they made, and I think this helps to contribute to greater political disdain and greater distance between voters and politicians. It is a very negative contribution made by the new government with its draft budget and its budgetary management.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e485	Previous speeches had taken the trouble to go through, with a fairly high degree of accuracy, an account of how many cabinet questions have been raised in the Storting over a longer period of time. And he referred very precisely to a correct number. He used the second half of his post to refer to the term ‘breakup’. It might have been interesting if the representative, Giske, had taken the trouble to figure out the distribution of the fractures that have been made in the last 10, 20, 30 years in this room, and perhaps got a precise review there as well. Then I am afraid that the calculation would have been quite interesting also with regard to the outcome of Giske's own party – it would probably have gone into his disfavor. It's interesting when Giske spends so much time on the notion of a breakup. Those who today, in a spirit of subsidiarity, have doubted that they will vote in favour of the Government's draft budget must also be aware of what the alternative is. This can never be forgotten in these times, nor when we are discussing a proposal for a government budget for next year. So it's also for the right. We didn't get 51 pst. digestion at last choice, but 21 pst. That means we have to work together for solutions. In a country with the greatest tradition to be in a government situation where there is a minority who make up the government based on the Storting, one has to ask the question: What is the gain? And the gain at least we from the Right have no problem picking up, and we say that they're the best we can pick up by being in the government situation. I assume that this question must also be asked by the Progress Party on such a day as today. What is the option if you have not chosen to vote in a subsidiary way for the option that so clearly lies closest to the Progress Party? We also need to think about this in a situation where today we have the lowest OECD growth of 20 years. What's the challenge, when what could have been the alternative, has concentrated on one point in business policy throughout the debate, and that's the SND cuts. Now there's no reorganization of the SND you're talking about. But as the Minister of Economic Affairs had been in the past, there's a flare of a curve that's been staged by a former government, which makes you get a significant cut this time. It's 17 p.m., but that doesn't mean you're pulling out the contact for activity in District Norway. What the previous government has provided is that we have adorned ourselves with putting ourselves at the bottom of productivity development from the early 1990s. We've been flattering ourselves in being at the top in terms of wage growth and at the bottom in terms of productivity growth. We have adorned ourselves with being in a situation where we encounter a brutal fall in our most important markets in Europe and America. We have Europe's highest interest rate base. If you forget – as you probably choose to do in this situation – that the most competitive part of Norwegian business, which is also the most export-oriented, we have in District Norway, then it has also come to light that it is this part that will live on and that is entitled to strengthen its competitiveness, which has been systematically weakened in Norway since the early 1990s and until today. Then there is one requirement that must be above everything else, and that is a rapid fall in interest rates, which can at least help us to approach an average European level. It is interesting to record that you spend as much time on SND and the term ‘repair’ of the entire SND. I noted with great attention that our last Minister of Industry, possibly by chance, chose during the summer to appoint a new Chairman of the SND, who has now gone out with very strong criticism of the policy of the new government. With equal attention, I have registered that the recent Minister of Industry has now entered into a partnership with the new Chairman of the board of SND. And I do not doubt that this will contribute to an economic, commercial success in the new share company when the business idea is also going to be a door opener to the new part of business. But my advice to the new Minister of Industry in this regard must be to take a look at this constellation and how he can live with having a chairman who chooses to go out with the kind of criticism of the policy of the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e502	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is following up the intention to strengthen its efforts towards the very weakest. In a rich country like Norway, it is unworthy that so many are not allowed to share in this prosperity. Through the next year’s budget, the Government has proposed important re-priorities to target measures to combat poverty. For disabled parents, it means a lot that the children's supplement in the population is increasing from 30 to 40 pst. of the basic amount. That means an increase of $5,136 for each child per day. years. The additional expenditure in relation to the Labour Party's proposal is 81 million. kr. Children under the age of 18 who lose their spouse do not have children’s supplements today. From 1 May next year, these will be given the opportunity to add children, even if the child is entitled to a child’s pension. There will be a good help in a difficult situation. If a person is dependent on social assistance, it is important that cash support is excluded and that the rate of social assistance is adjusted. Free income of municipalities is increasing by 70 million. NOK to compensate for this. The Christian People's Party believes it is very positive that the Government wants to improve the economy of patients with long-term mental health care. Most of these are non-pensioners and have little left to do when the pension is curtailed after five months in an institution. The proposal for no curtailment in the first year of institution is supported and helps to equalise patients in somatic and mental health services. In the budget debate, it has been said that labour is the most important resource in the Norwegian economy. In the coming years, labour supply will be the main limiting factor in the Norwegian economy. Small taxes on low income can make it profitable for more people to go from part-time to full-time work, thus increasing labour force. It is very positive that the minimum deduction is increased from NOK 40 300 to NOK 43 000. It may also stimulate higher professional activity. I think that several old-age pensioners between 67 and 70 will use the opportunity from New Year to earn 2G without shortening the pension. It may help to make the transition to a retirement life more active and flexible. During the election campaign, there was a lot of focus on props. Great was my amazement when the Stoltenberg government increased the self-interest. Fortunately, the Labour Party has turned around, and the self-interest has been reduced by 100 kroner. User organisations are united behind a demand for a new partial participation, Roof 2. The Christian People's Party supports this, as it will screen chroniclers and others with great expenses for medical treatment. It is good that several diseases are included in free physical treatment. For many, a drop in self-payment at the training institutions means a lot to prevent relapses and to master everyday life, thus improving quality of life. For those who are struggling with major drug problems, an additional increase of 6 million will occur. kr for medically assisted rehabilitation to help them in the methadone queue. It is important that these users are closely followed up locally where they live. A low-threshold provision of health care for drug users can literally save lives. Uncertainty is linked to the hospital economy after the establishment of regional health establishments. The financial instrument shall be reviewed to stimulate prompt patient treatment at the appropriate level. An increase in the ISF scheme from 50 to 55 pst. will certainly be an incentive for greater activity. Several approved somatic hospitals are included in next year’s input-driven funding — as are day - surgery by private contract specialists. The goal is for health cows to decrease. I have mentioned several measures that will improve the quality of life and the economy of people who are struggling. Fortunately, the Government will fight poverty both in Norway and internationally. The aid increases from 0.89 pst. in the year to 0,92 pst. next year, and shall be in the course of a four-year period up to 1 pst. Although today we adopt the budget for our country, I am pleased – and it is important – that we never become ourselves enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e542	The Bondevik government is trying to give the impression that it is concerned about poverty problems. That's not the case. In housing policy, which in very many cases is a major reason why people are poor, the government cuts Bondevik in relation to the Stoltenberg budget. This is in conflict with the Christian People's Party's past – it's pure Right-wing policy. The entrance ticket to the housing market today makes it difficult to obtain more and more owner-occupied housing, particularly in the largest cities, but also in the press areas where housing prices are high. In the position of the government budget for next year, it now appears that the Bondevik government's cut is unfortunately getting a majority here in the Stortinget. We in the Workers' Party must be sorry about that. The Stoltenberg government raised the Husbank's loan framework by NOK 2 billion for next year, because this was necessary and would mean that 4000 more households could receive a start-up loan compared to this year. The Bondevik government reverses the whole increase. In addition to the fact that young people are affected at the start-up stage, this also means that the cut is about 1 000 fewer new homes with mortgages. The Labour Party also provided for a strengthening in the House Bank in relation to the establishment of housing for young people and disadvantaged persons by increasing the allocation of the housing allowance. As you know, the housing allowance is directed directly towards households with a weak economy and would help those who need it the most, among other things. the homeless. But when the Bondevik government needed money for tax bills to the richest, the government cuts the housing allowance. Money so badly needed for all, the poorest, is now given to the richest. The Labour Party in Stortinget has proposed a further increase in housing aid. Housing aid is targeted directly at those with low incomes and high housing costs, and is a very important instrument in the problem of poverty. This increase would provide room for housing support for families with children living in naked dwellings that are not house-funded but have low income and high housing costs. But Bondevik says no. The working party proposes to allocate another 5 million. kr in support of measures for the homeless in major cities, which include, in addition to Oslo, both Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. We probably don't get a majority for this, despite the fact that Bondevik has stated that his government is going to be remembered for doing something for the poorest in society. That Bondevik also draws the Workers' Party's proposal to secure reasonable plots for housing purposes, only shows that the Bondevik government has no solid housing policy. This is pure right-wing policy. The Stoltenberg Government incorporated its draft budget in order to amend the legislation to ensure state-owned land for residential projects for young and disadvantaged people. The Bondevik government says no and obliges the state to sell land at market prices. If the Bondevik government was serious about helping the most difficult people, this is going in the wrong direction. So to something completely different, namely the development of the tribal roads here in the country. I would venture to believe that there is no one here in Stortinget who is not familiar with the many serious accidents, not least the many fatal accidents and the rapidly increasing traffic on E6 and E18 in Eastfold. And as one said the other day: Had E6 in Eastfold been an oil platform, it had been closed a long time ago. Here there must be something wrong with the priority. If we look at the accident figures over the last ten years, it's actually saying that there's a coffin for every kilometer along the E6. This is very serious, and this cannot continue. In the election campaign all the party leaders were out and promised a rapid progress of the Eastfold package, but now most of the promises are gone. When Bondevik was given a room for action to increase road appropriations, it was elsewhere in the country that was prioritised – not one penny for the Eastfold package. When the Workers' Party got more room for action, we prioritised $40 million. kr for these projects. This means that the progress plan can be carried out, and we can be done by 2009, i.e. five years earlier. There are many saved lives. Such insurance is not possible if there is no majority in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for next year's appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e570	In contrast to the Stoltenberg Government, the Cooperation Government has underlined the importance of the maritime industries. It's very joyful. Several generations have built up a competence that has made it a leader in the world. The unique maritime environment that forms a cluster of related environments in the maritime sector is interdependent. The experience gained by Norwegian seafarers at sea, the competence of shipping companies, the shipyards, equipment suppliers and the financial environment constitutes this cluster which is so important for an international industry. Shipping has always been a mobile industry, but now we see a general trend towards increased mobility of skills and capital as well. This implies an even greater degree of competition between countries in attracting investment. Ship and equipment suppliers have, through technical competence, provided increasingly efficient and safe ships. But we also see an interesting development in environmental technologies to limit emissions of bad gaseous pollutants. Their expertise and knowledge are impressive, and this expertise must be further developed, supported and stimulated. It is therefore gratifying that the Cooperation Government has this high on the agenda. – So far technology development and environmental efforts. Training, recruiting and maintaining competent seafarers in competition with other sectors and countries is also an important challenge. The entire maritime cluster environment understands that this is the very foundation. Knowledge, competence and creativity provide security and ability to master challenges and transitions in an industry where changes are faster than in the past. A high level of education and competence is important for maintaining and increasing value creation and, above all, ensuring competition in this industry, which is so important to our coast. A whole generation of Norwegian seafarers were lost when international shipping experienced a dramatic structural change in the 1970s. This in turn resulted in the weakening recruitment of Norwegian seafarers in the 1970s and 1980s. But the industry itself has done a lot to lay the foundation for a new generation of Norwegian seafarers. The challenges are still great. I think the industry has been conscious of its responsibility, and although in the future there will be a great need for foreigners on Norwegian ships, it is also very important that the Norwegian maritime industry can recruit Norwegian youth for Norwegian ships. The EU guidelines on aid for maritime transport, also linked to Norway under the EEA Agreement, facilitate the competitiveness of both seafarers and shipping companies in an international market. In several EU countries, the general tax rules have been given a form of tax exemptions for both seafarers and shipping companies. Norway can hardly define itself independently of such schemes in the future. In the case of the special reimbursement scheme for retaining and recruiting Norwegian seafarers, the majority of citizens in this house have on several occasions secured a reimbursement system that can meet competition from EEA countries. The draft budget for 2002 of the Stoltenberg Government proposed to withdraw the offshore equipment and wellboats from the scheme. This is the opinion of the civil majority, and there is therefore a majority in this Chamber to re-approve the reimbursement system for these categories of ships. And in fact, ships related to petroleum activities are very important in competence-based Norwegian shipping. Among other things, we know that the offshore equipment has a significant number of training positions. Actually, 40 pst. the training positions in the reimbursement scheme are included in this group. It is therefore gratifying that there appears to be a majority for a closer dialogue on further developing the scheme. But the most important thing is that we ensure the industry framework conditions that are as stable and predictable as possible over time and with which companies can live.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e589	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e592	The 2002 budget is the first after the elections and shows that we have now had a political shift in Norway, from a social democratic government to a centre/right government. If you're going to be nice, one might say that it's not the dramatic changes, but the direction can be dramatic if not the calm and the senses gradually subside over the Government. The positive thing in the budget is that the Bondevik II government is continuing many of the Stoltenberg government's proposals in important areas such as the development of kindergartens, the upgrading of schools and the removal of excess in the blue recipe for the elderly and the disabled. Yes, strangely enough, we also agreed on the terms of the defence. Who would believe it after the debate last spring when the Workers' Party was accused of operating the 'used rifles' policy. But it was before the election. From my viewpoint in East Agder, it is not possible to describe the budget as district friendly. East Agder is a state that has benefited greatly from a strong SND. Cut at 659 million. kr will hit firms in the start-up phase or in the start-up phase hard. There will also be dramatic consequences for many municipalities following the absence of funding from the Municipal Enterprise Fund in 2002. The cut in freight subsidies on petrol will also hit the districts. Together, the shipping fee will be cut by 90 million. kr. Full-time students, as we had as our goal, will not even be cut off in the scholarship. 1.5 million employees lose the right to deduct NOK 1 800 from the union quota. This doesn't make sense in terms of spring pay. In this financial debate, I will finally comment quickly on the AFP scheme, which I feel is a good system for workers who are worn out, but who may eventually want to do less work. Then the income limit of NOK 4000 is too low and should be increased to 1G. I ask the Government to look at this scheme again. I would also like to mention that I have strong feelings from the election regarding the fact that many wanted a tax system where the bottom line is raised, so that people with low incomes and pensions do not pay taxes. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e611	In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperative Government enters for an investment level on the road representing an increase of approximately 600 million. kr in relation to the Workers' Party Government proposal in the National Transport Plan. In the additional proposition, this has been reduced to 100 million. SEK, i.e. SEK 1⁄2 billion from the Sem declaration was submitted until the additional proposition was made! During the election campaign, the Right made a point of stressing that when it came to social policy, the Right was to trust! Social inclusion is a good district policy. With a Right-dominated government that has cut back on municipal commercials, removing the gas and fuel-fired freight offset, reducing SND's loan and coupon arrangements by DKK 1.7 billion, to capture some of the district enemy proposals for our new government, it's not 100 million. kr just the big lift for District Norway in the road sector. The state’s commitment to secure cover on all national roads over a four-year period, which is due to end in 2003, also appears to be lagging behind. In the election campaign, both Left and Christian People's Party Kjell Magne Bondevik was high on the track in Møre and Romesdal and took a positive view of the use of ferry subsidiaries for the realization of mainland connections. In the additional proposition from the Government, I can't see the huge enthusiasm for the alternative use of ferry tickets. This model of realising new road projects is intended to be tested. More and Romsdal are between the states that have interesting projects, and the county council has joined forces behind the North Island Road as the first priority test project. This is something I hope we can create multiples for. District-Noreg is completely dependent on a conscious commitment to commerce. At night, the national road network is home to mobility for both individuals and businesses. It is therefore important in view of future value creation that increased resources are deployed both to reduce ferry tariffs and to increase the ferry frequency, especially on the stuttering network. Only in my home country, Møre and Romsdal, do they have an investment need of more than DKK 1 billion. This problem is both security and connectivity, and it is very clear that there is a great need for extra resources. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government has caused great concern with its attitude when it comes to completing the old-age reform. Local authorities have spent time, energy and resources planning; they have submitted applications in line with application deadlines, and then enter a long period of uncertainty. I will characterise this as an unworthy end to the old age effort that has been widely debated until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e629	It's almost like you're in an absurd theater. Early today, the Prime Minister asked a cabinet question in the light of the financial situation. A majority of the Storting should be forced to kneel to secure the Government a majority. Since then, the debate has remained largely on other matters as if the cabinet question did not exist. It confronted me with a choice: Shall I take the cabinet question seriously, or shall I contribute to the theatre performance? I chose the theater. I've previously expressed concern for the Bondevik government's investment in the big cities, especially Oslo. The distance between the promises of the campaign and what was formulated in the Government's declaration was more than embarrassing. This has now been clarified in the current financial situation. It's sad reading, especially for Oslo. The rich get out of it well, but Oslo and the great majority of the city are offered glass beads and empty words. The Sem statement promises public transport money of up to NOK 2 billion. That would mean 500 million. in 2002, to follow the planning period for the national transport plan. In the financial position, this is boiled down to 90 million. kr. This is a breach of promises, and it creates political contempt. Today's newspaper again confronts us with disaster reports from the management of Oslo Sporveier. It may not be permitted to take such messages easily. In order to clean up the current situation while at the same time creating the possibility of rational development, the country’s contribution will be decisive. The Workers' Party will cooperate to remedy the situation. Now the Bondevik government has a responsibility for doing something. State Council Dørum has talked on various occasions about spice layers for Oslo. These promises seem more like ritual exercises than willingness to act. I also want to remind the Government of the challenges we face in the Groruddalen. 130 000 people live under totally unacceptable conditions. Environmental and pollution problems are formidable and require national responsibility for finding solutions. My appeal is that the government, in line with what the Stoltenberg government did, gives a government council a special responsibility to follow up the plans for the Groruddalen, so that the Groruddalen's problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e640	Violence against women violates fundamental human rights and is a serious social problem. It is therefore very positive that the follow-up to the adopted action plan ‘Violence against women’ has now started. The action plan obliges police and judicial authorities in many ways to give priority to strengthening women’s legal certainty through various measures. Women must be guaranteed better protection against menacing and harassing perpetrators. It is therefore very important that the police and officers' seat develop procedures for dealing with violent and threatened women. Police must exploit the possibilities provided by the legislation to prevent and combat violence against women. I am very pleased that the Cooperation Government is launching a pilot project in 2002 with mobile violence alarms. That's happy for a lot of people, as it's going to help a lot of women to a safer everyday life. I have great faith that this co-operation government, with the Minister of Justice at the head, will give priority to this work. I also have great faith that this government will actually deliver results so that women who are subjected to violence can actually have the opportunity to live without fear of their own lives in their own homes. I am very pleased that the Government prioritises the establishment of top competence in the areas of violence and sexual abuse in the individual police districts. It is very good that during 2002, initiatives will be taken to set up familivold coordinators in each of the 27 police districts of the country. Finally, I would just like to mention that the need for further strengthening of competence in this area will be identified as part of the work to be carried out by the government-appointed women's violence election.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e653	When you get so far down on the list of speakers, you might at least be tempted to try to sum up some of the impressions you've got after such a debate. The debate has, in my opinion, been so much about the procedure or the game here in Stortinget: lack of cooperation, government's lack of foundation, yes, actually signals of a severely weakened government. In this way, regrettably, the political debate is also marked by the serious start-up difficulties of the Government and the conflict that is taking place here in the United Kingdom. In this way, I have a great sense of the characterization of the theatre by the representative Froyn. It is not tempting to debate real policy when one has to go for days and wait for a clear signal for the budget framework of the Progress Party Group meeting. The political challenges have come to an end. A weak government puts the process and the game in focus for the debate. There are, in particular, two main challenges in which the Government’s preparation for involvement is missing. First of all, it concerns the government's vision of future public use of money, and as a no. 2: What are the consequences of this in the fight to increase poverty? In order to further reduce public budgets over the next four years, see: also the tax promises made in the election campaign – where will the future cut come from? Are the cuts we are now looking at in the SND, in agriculture and in the districts an indication of the possible impact of future budget proposals? Where is the vision? I heard the other Minister of Industry instead declare that no sole proprietor had expressed any dissatisfaction with the entire business of the Government. It does say more about the Minister of Industry's circle than about the Government's industrial policy. It also brings us to what should perhaps be important in relation to the SND problem and the challenge: it does not help primarily to talk to the entrepreneurs, you have to talk to those who want to become business. The debate has not clarified whether the Government wants to continue its profile in terms of cuts. Tax returns taken into account: this year's budget proposal is only a decimetre of a dreaded meter. This brings me to the next challenge. In the fight against poverty, work is at the heart of creating more work. Social assistance must be improved for families with children, but the same social assistance must not be a permanent solution. It must be an objective to ensure that fewer people are in need of social assistance. The cuts we now experience are at risk of increasing the poverty problem. When the same tax rates give a very uneven distribution profile, not only in terms of person but also in terms of geography, one with good reason must fear how the policy is when tax charges get the size of several government parties hinted at in the election campaign. In that case, it will be easy for us to move towards a society where more people need social assistance and welfare ministers. This is the overall challenge of poverty. When well-being breaks down, only the alms are left, and having gone from well-being to omnisence should not become a government's legacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e670	In spite of a short period of time, the co-operation administration has been able to put its mark on the budget. The draft budget as it stands now bears the mark of a new course. It gives signals about a new policy, it indicates new directions. The budget is the first follow-up to the Sem declaration, the government statement, and there is an impressive amount that has come into place after such a short period of time. It gives hope of what a budget that is being worked on from scratch will contain. The government is fulfilling the promises. We get the tax relief of the times, and we get clear priorities in important areas while maintaining tightness. I would particularly like to comment on a few points in the school budget. The student organisations have attacked the Government's study funding proposals. ‘Historical lifting break’ is said about the proposal, which in fact increases students’ scholarships – by NOK 3000 – to the next year, and maintains the 30-pst grant scheme. shall be independent of weights and study scores, while saying that a higher grant rate combined with a conversion model for the increase should be gradually introduced. Government and government parties keep the promises. It also includes the removal of the conversion system that the leader of the Norwegian Student Union characterised in a press release on 11 October 2001 as ‘totally unacceptable’. The clear words of the supplementary proposal that the grant rate will be gradually escalated are a sure guarantee that the student funding commitments will be kept. In the nomination of the Financial Committee, the system of direct State grants to the national lines of higher education is proposed to be maintained. I am very happy that this has come along. The existence of several landlines depends on the maintenance of direct subsidies. It is not right to make these important lines, which have students from all over the country, and which meet the needs of business far beyond the individual state, depending on the economy and priorities of the host state. There is great joy in many places that the grant is in place again, and that is to hope that we can avoid the constant repetition of the proposal to remove it. The committee setting shows broad agreement on the scheme. We should therefore be calm about this, but we should perhaps consider whether the grant should not be adjusted. It has now been at rest for a long time. From my point of view in East Agder, I would like to say that this is a budget that gives clear signals about new policies and courses. That's what's needed, and that gives you optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e685	After following this financial debate for two days, there is one very striking fact that has struck me, namely the reality with which the Workers' Party's representatives seem to be surrounded: any tax relief proposed by the Government is irresponsible, unsocial and anti-diversity, while any tax relief proposed by the Workers' Party is almost per. definition is responsible, social and fair. To put it another way, in my experience with workers' party people through many election campaigns and debates, any deviation from the level of taxation that the Workers' Party had to land at all times is almost a threat to the welfare community itself, and the higher the tax level, the better well-being. Strange then, by the way, that social democrats have not gone in for 100 pst. taxation and 100 pst. well-being long ago. Such an Erasmus Montanus argument suggests a gross underestimation of the ability of the voters to think for themselves, as was actually done by the voters in the recent election. That being said, we on the Right would like to take credit for the fact that the resignation of the Stoltenberg government – quite untypical of a workers' party government – did not propose insignificant tax reliefs in its proposal for a government budget. Of course, this would never have happened if we had not recently been through a campaign where the Right's message and the voters' message about lower taxes and taxes were so clear. The changes made by the co-operation government to the State budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government show that it is actually possible to combine tax relief with a further expansion of the welfare community, with efforts to combat poverty, more to care for the elderly, more to kindergartens and quality at school, to mention something. It is only possible if there is real will for innovation and priority. It has the government's people, both in the government offices and here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e696	This year's proposal for a State budget represents a significant boost to Norwegian cultural life. The budget indicates proper and necessary action that is well integrated into a comprehensive policy for the design of modern Norway. We live in a time of great change. Technological development and the emergence of an internationalised society provide new perspectives on the role and societal importance of cultural life. The meeting with international cultural expressions, for example through the media, can easily be seen as a threat over time if our own cultural identity is too weak. The focus we now see on cultural heritage and evidence is therefore an important prerequisite for future policy. In the international picture, new forms of expression are emerging. Norwegian cultural life must be best able to participate in this development, whether it be Norwegian cultural expressions abroad, or the design of international terms in Norway. This is true not only in the traditional areas but also in particular in relation to the emergence of new industries and participation in the important work of building bridges between people and cultures. In the light of the international conflicts that have occupied us this autumn, there may be particular reason to stress also the peace-making perspectives of international cultural work. In the further development of a functioning international society, the construction of cultural bridges is a necessary, but so far very undervalued premise. Through the budget, the co-operation administration shows a willingness to play a strong public role in culture. However, cultural policy must also be geared towards the necessary modernisation. This is about processes that aim at strengthening our creative environments, building active international networks, rates of development across dividing lines between institutions, genres or national borders, and developing new forms of funding where private actors are also more active participants than what we see today. Tomorrow's challenges require a good cultural policy condition. This budget, together with a targeted modernisation policy, is a good training programme for further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e711	Svik is a strong word, but betrayal is a word that has been used by the students seas to describe the Government's proposal for study funding. And the students actually have reason to feel weakened. The pledges in the campaign to increase the grant to up to 40 p.m. was unisone. In debates with school students and students, it was expressed with the greatest of course. The left would even introduce a salary of DKK 100 000 in response to the study funding. What is the Government’s study finance proposal? Properly increasing the cost framework, but as a loan. This means increasing the borrowing burden and worsening the economic situation when the study period is over and the loan is to be repaid. Today, we also have an income-based repayment scheme for student loans. This arrangement was proposed by the Stoltenberg government to cut, which the Bondevik government maintains. The scheme does not apply to many, but to those who use it, it is important. And then my question is, Where has it been made by the promises made by the Cooperation Government to support the most economically difficult? The scheme to help people who have it financially hard, with large student debt and low income actually costs less than half a million dollars a year. So the loan scheme for high school books. The Stoltenberg government proposed 103 million. NOK to follow up the scheme. The cooperative management will cut the total pending the award of a grant scheme. The Central Party supports the proposal for a box grant scheme. We have transferred the sum to the grant scheme, as we promised – as a start. State Council Kristin Clement, on the basis of yesterday's budget statement that the scheme needs to be explored, cited as an example of the fact that textbooks will soon be available online free of charge. It's possible that it happens quickly. But then there will have to be quite another sum, to get students in high school available PCs both at school and at home. It would have been a good start on the challenge of building up the scholarship system now. Because I guess the government, like the Center Party, has the goal that even the high school should be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e724	After carrying out several reversals in fiscal policy, it is painful to testify that the Workers' Party is struggling with old tax ethics, especially with regard to dividends tax. The voters are well aware that the Workers' Party is doing a joint action with the Socialist Left in a violent defence of a system that makes it more expensive to buy shares in Norwegian companies than to bank the same money – hardly any recipe for securing jobs. SV's efforts in the financial debate are a single long illustration of a whole or semimarxist party with a pre-established static view of taxation. In this slightly alien psychological world, there is a human type that almost robotically works with the same eagerness for the same long and equally hard whether he loses or wins the effort. In this socialist world, people invest their money unfailingly, regardless of the potential for profit. In this SV world, young people take the same length of education, are equally targeted and work equally hard whether they are punished or rewarded for their efforts. The Bondevik government will pursue a dynamic tax policy, an incentive policy in which the human behaviour of society is earned, should actually pay off. That's what characterizes as a tax haven for the rich. It would be equally right to accuse the Government of dividends on the rich, to tempt the rich to spend their money on risk projects through the stimulation policy, which may necessarily end up losing their money. Money can easily be lost, and there are arguments to suggest that it is inappropriate to tempt people into nutrition and research that may subsequently prove to be loss projects. Using people as dairy cows is not nice. Of course, the Bondevik government does not introduce tax relief to make fat money books fatter, but because it is extremely smart to tempt people to spend their savings to invest in our children's future jobs. It must pay off to do extra work. It's worth taking education, because it's behavior society's growing. By stimulating growth, we're just giving those weak economic foundations that they more than anyone else have earned and depended on. This is a very central aspect of the government's tax policy. It's a little laudable to want to distribute the cake you don't even care about examining the recipe. With its tax relief and incentive policy, the Government shows that it can bake cake, and with the fight against neo-poverty it will show that it also has the ability to distribute this cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e742	The opposition has, in various ways, tried in particular to present the Christian People's Party as a loser in this budget, as a party running from its programme, as a party that has been overrun by the Right. Many other descriptions are also given. Of course, it is the opposition's role to be critical, but I think there has been a great deal of lack of force and conviction in what has been said. It's kind of been an obligation race, an attempt to set someone up against others, as we did when we were children. It wasn't always as successful, but it happened that you were able to create a contradiction that you began to believe in because there were so many people who said it so many times. There has been almost a kind of mantra in this room in this budget debate. I don't at least think it's been interesting to hear the comparisons that have been made between the central government and the current cooperative government, where, then, the central government was all of a sudden so much better. Yes, it's not going to be that much distance in time before the descriptions change. That time it was called, for example. that it was ‘uniquely weak’, while one now says that it was such a much better government. There's basically something promising about this, because you're not going to put too much into descriptions that prove not to be rooted in reality, but in the world of imagination. But I'm not happy with political descriptions that jump out of the need for substitute motives. The Government’s budget for the justice sector has been well received. The reason for that, I think, is a very large degree of agreement on justice policy issues in this room. There is also a great deal of consensus on the everyday life of justice policy, its description, the instruments of justice policy and where efforts need to be directed. When the Co-operation Board allocates more money to the judiciary, it is of course received with joy. When further increases will also be signalled in future budgets, the Government shows that it is guided by a course that the Storting approves. Justice policy is about creating and ensuring security and justice in society, and the response to crime is about the criminal act that has been committed. In addition, the penalty shall help to get the convicted person out of a possible criminal career. That's why the government is betting on all stages of the criminal action chain. The appropriations are managed in such a way that the public can make the job their best possible and that the voluntary actors in the field of justice can complement where they are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e753	The representative of the Skjälaa refers to the cooperative government's draft budget in the case of the grant scheme, as a «swind» – a very strong word. It's strange to witness such a behavior when you know that the Center Party four years ago was programmating 40 pst. scholarship share. I have not registered a single proposal from the Centre Party throughout the previous period that goes on this. I do not want to characterize such a behaviour, in the absence of any parliamentary right words. A lot has been said about the government's study funding. Unfortunately, not everything is based on facts. The student organisations are among those who have reacted strongly to the Government's proposals. Expressions such as «historical breach of promises» have been used and the Government has been accused of « burying the full-time student once and for all». It may be tempting to stay at the same polemical level and ask how 3,000 kroner in increased scholarships for all students and an increase in the cost standard of 10000 kroner can be seen as an estimate of the full-time student. I would rather try to find an explanation. Let me start with some documentary facts. When former State Council Giske presented its proposal in the State budget, the response from Norwegian Student Union was that ‘the study funding proposed in the 2002 state budget is completely unacceptable and is transferred to the student for poor study quality’. The National Association of Students pointed out that they have consistently opposed the proposal of the now fortunately resigned Labour Party Government on a new grant model. They also noted ‘Giss fractures of the lift’. It may not be so strange when the information brochure from Giske reads: «... from the autumn of 2002 the study funding shall be SEK 80000 per year. A new grant model will not be introduced until better study quality and evaluation forms are in place.’ The grant model from Giske referred to implies that all aid is initially granted as a loan and that 39 pst. be converted into a scholarship from the Loan Fund by passing the examination. When we know at the same time that many people who today receive full loans and scholarships are unable to follow normal progress in their studies, possibly canceling their exams, this means that a significant number of students would not actually get a scholarship at all. The cooperation parties have carried out priorities, priorities that benefit students. The risk of deletion is removed and the cost standard is raised to DKK 80000 per year. This can be called not a breach of lift, but a lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e772	Let me remind you that Norway entered the 20th century as Europe's poorest country. But 100 years later, we can be proud that our country made its entrance in the 21st century as the richest country in the world. In such a radically changed economic situation, it is completely meaningless that the Norwegian people will continue to suffer from the world’s most expensive food in 2001, the world’s highest petrol prices, the world’s most expensive cars, the world’s highest air charges, alcohol taxes, excise duties, etc., without reflecting this in terms of good or sufficient public welfare offers to the people. More and more people feel that public services are too scarce to be returned, and that what you pay in taxes is not proportional to what you get back. Many are attracted by public solutions and public monopolies in a welfare context. In spite of large government revenues, we have long hospital cows, we have a rather mediocre school, we have scanty old age care and bad roads, and all of this creates an increasing scepticism for the public sector. I expect a new government to clean up many of the weaknesses of the Norwegian welfare community in 2001 are hampered. Part of the answer is privatisation and the suspension of competition in public services. In fact, there is a wave across the world when it comes to setting up private schools, private hospitals and private care for the elderly. Competition is proving to create both cheaper and better public services, and Norway is disastrously dependent on this. We've just become a retard. In Norway, more staff in the public sector are being recruited and value-creating private sector is being reduced, and this will, of course, go completely wrong. It is this development that threatens the welfare state and not privatisation or competitive outsourcing. The public sector has become too large, it is too productive, and it is mainly due to the absence of efficiency-enhancing competition – efficiency-enhancing competition to produce welfare services such as school, health care and care for the elderly. In practice, public monopolies are protected against any efficiency-enhancing competition from private undertakings. And the fight against open competition to produce publicly funded welfare offers is to a great extent detrimental to Norwegian well-being. I hope the time finally comes for something really extensive to happen in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e781	As the parliamentary leader for myself, I think this is an appropriate time to make a statement. Politics is the art of the possible, a mere beginning that the Progress Party has shown that the party does not master. The Progress Party will now vote in favour of the draft budget presented by the three governmental parties, so that it is adopted. This proposal is much worse for the electorate of the Progress Party than the proposal that could have been adopted if the Progress Party had accepted the draft budgetary settlement offered by the Party. This proposal included, inter alia: a guarantee for the police high school students of permanent employment in the police after completion of education, the removal of the one-off charge for police cars, so that the police would be freed of resources for more useful investments, a reduction of 25 p.m. of the annual motorbike tax, raising the free-card limit on the payment of taxes by NOK 10 000, which would be useful for students and school students. The progress party said no, knowing that the party would be forced to kneel in the main hall and have to secure a majority for a worse proposal. It can hardly be called the art of possibility. The Progress Party should go out and tell the police high school students that several of them are at risk of becoming unemployed while the country needs more police, because it was more important for the party to attract media attention. The progress party should tell our police force that they are missing out on important investments in new equipment because Siv Jensen and Carl I. Hagen went mad in the negotiations with Sanner and Bondevik. The party of progress should tell the motorcycle-interested youth that their motorcycles are becoming more expensive than necessary because the party would demonstrate that the Government is dependent on the support of the party. The Progress Party should tell students and schoolchildren who have a part-time job that they have to pay more taxes than necessary because the political game and the long-term strategy of the party became more important than the consideration of their own voters. It won't be easy to tell that a political party prefers a worse solution for its voters than they could optimally get. Siv Jensens and Carl I. Hagen's budget deficit is what will be best remembered from this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e790	When I was young at proper, I got myself a place to live at an all right price. Today, the apartment I bought costs three times as much. It's not random. It's very good that so many people in this country have a place to live and own it. In fact, about two thirds own their own dwelling. It's not random. It's actually not random at all. When my grandparents and probably many of the representatives' parents, perhaps some of the representatives themselves, bought their first home after the war, it was house-banked. And it was house-banked because people needed housing. And the politicians, the leaders of the country at that time, said we have to do something about this. And they gave big grants through the House Bank, they gave large, reasonable loans for housing, and they gave cheap public plots. This was good social-democratic policy, and it worked! Today you should be blind not to see that there is a pile of people with problems in the housing market – problems in getting a place to live. Young people have trouble, people with a minority background have trouble and the unemployed have trouble. They are called with a common term disadvantaged on the housing market. But it's the housing market that's difficult when people don't get a place to live. Then we can choose one of two solutions: we can choose to use politics, as SV will, to solve the problem. We want to spend $800 million on grants for rental homes for young people and for others. We will provide good loan conditions through the House Bank, and we will use public, state and municipal land to build dwellings on – because we need it. Or you can choose the other solution, which is to let the market solve the problem, and now I see that former principal – now state council – Norman is sitting in the hall, and he'll probably give me the right thing to say that the market will never solve the problem for those who don't have money. It is in the nature of the market. That is why a policy is needed. I was very happy when I saw the Sem statement, where there was actually something about this, namely that the Husbank should contribute more to the construction of housing for the disadvantaged. And then it said, "Specially, there has to be a significant investment in housing." I was gentle, but I became all the more angry when I saw the budget that was presented, where it was cut off in the grant for housing. It was cut off from the loan amount at Husbanken, and the possibility of using public land for cheap dwellings was removed. I understand Foss, who says that you can't solve all the problems in one budget, you can't achieve the entire Sem statement in one budget. But if we're going to bet on housing, and if we're going to believe in the new government, it's an incredibly bad start to cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e799	I have heard more articles from the government side where they have explained how little dramatic the cuts have been made, among other things. to SND and to local food funds. There are those who have made it so that it probably gets better without that money. I have heard the Minister of Industry say that he did not believe in those who said that municipal nutrition funds were important, and he told me about his own experiences. In his time of rapporteur, he said that he was the head of the board of the nutrition fund, hindered the municipal nutrition fund from creating more jobs than it created. Then he probably doesn't believe in any other inquiries about other sectors either. But at least it is in other places that they have good experience. The most effective state scheme to help those who want something locally, and who have their small plans, is sought. There has been good start-up help with private funds and with bank loans to create new jobs, NOK 30,000 on average per year. new jobs, in addition to helping many to modernise and continue the company they already have. Another effect of this money is that municipalities that receive such money undertake to have a business owner, either in the municipality or in the business association. There is then a contact point closer to the SND to which the individual can go, and it has been important for many. The central party absolutely wants this allocation to come back, and we also want the corporate tax to come back to the municipalities to make the municipalities more involved in business development. I would also like to say a little bit about the budgetary procedure we have in Stortinget this time. I have been a member of the Economic and Social Committee and have learned how tied we are to our hands and feet after the Financial Committee has said ours, despite the amount of information gathered in the Trade Committee, despite all the hearings we have had, and despite all those who believe that we are in the Trade Committee, have opportunities. I have not changed my view of this budgetary procedure after coming to the Financial Committee. I still believe that it is unfortunate in that sense that we have too little opportunity in the trade committee to do something. In the Financial Committee, surplus information is very, very large. I think we're in a situation where we have a majority on Stortinget to do something more at some point, especially to those who need state help the most. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to draw the proposals No. 21, Nos. 22, Nos. 23 and Nos 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e814	It would have been the crown of the work in Stortinget today if it were such that in a situation where the government of Bondevik was forced to ask cabinet questions with an absolutely predictable outcome, it would not even be a small round of parliamentary leaders. I do not think the Stortinget could be aware of that, so I volunteer. This is the story of an alert yawn. There has at no time been any excitement about whether Bondevik was going to ask cabinet questions when Carl I. Hagen ordered it, and what the group of the Progress Party was going to vote when the knife was put on the throat. They asked for it to vote on what Bondevik wanted them to vote on, but they have not changed anything that can be written about at home, in Christmas cards at least. It's a ritual cabinet question, and Prime Minister Bondevik says that this can't be done so often. But you've been in that situation right now, once until Christmas, once a summer. We are now going to have a revised national budget where no majority in the UK has any kind of agreement on what will happen to spring, to which one should deal. So then I guess the spectral starts again. So I think this is a story with just losers. I think it puts the Storting as such to laugh, even to us poor, innocent people who have nothing to do with the game, and I think it presents Bondevik with a humiliating view, and the Advance Party is revealed as a terrible bad negotiating party. The progress party has not done its job on behalf of the voters. The Progress Party has had a golden chance on behalf of, for example: the country's hundreds of thousands of pensioners to regulate the basic amount as the Progress Party has fought for a long time – if they would have, if they had not taken their entire party program and everything between heaven and earth, as all the members of the Progress Party have been talking about all day. The Progress Party did not want that. And the next time I meet Alvheim in a TV debate and he corrects a pain-removing finger, which is about twice as long as mine, and talks about what kind of assault is being done against the country's pensioners, disembarked and everyone else who is struggling with low incomes, we can say that it is the jam thanks to you yourself, because the Progress Party has had the opportunity to do something about this, an opportunity that they have not cared about using. At some point it must be known to the voters of the Progress Party that they think it is more stubborn to be on TV than to get cash for worn-out pensioners with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e825	At the end of the debate, many have been referring to the allegations of a breach in terms of student funding. Let's just briefly take some history before we look at what happened. In the 1997 elections, several parties took place, including: the three central batches, to decide that they would introduce 40 pst. participation in grants during the period 1997 to 2001. In the Workers' Party, we said no to that, because we didn't think we could manage to do it in that big time period. The central parties that came into government, did no world thing to raise the grant a millimeter over 30 pst. On the other hand, we made proposals in February that the grant rate would be 40 p.m. We carried out more than we promised. The centre batches were unable to implement what they promised. Then came the treatment in Stortinget in June in the spring. Then the criticism of the Workers' Party was the opposite, that we didn't go far enough. A historical increase in study funding of SEK 1.3 billion in annual impact, a rise from 30 p.m. to 40 pst. in a grant share and a cost standard NOK 10 000 above what was then, was not enough for the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Center Party and the Right. No, they would spend more money on the study funding. And the students of course said yes to it, and preferred a scheme that was even better than the Workers' Party had put forward. We will not ignore the fact that some student even voted for some of these parties in the hope that what they said in June was still valid in October. Therefore, disappointment was great among students, but also among the other parties, when the new government removed 260 million. kr from the study funding. Then they say that this is an improvement in student funding for those who are delayed and deleted. No, that's not true either. With the Workers' Party's grant share and study funding, for example, a nursing student who studies for four years, but is one year delayed, receives a total of NOK 124 000 in scholarships. With the cooperative government's proposal, that student will receive NOK 120 000, and thus lose NOK 4000. A person who conducts his studies in a normal time will in fact lose NOK 28 000 in scholarships with the proposals of the Cooperation Government. It's a huge lifting breach. It was said in June this year that it would be implemented from the autumn of 2002. The finance minister says that you can't do everything in three weeks. But it's a fact that if they hadn't been there for a minute, the study funding would be 260 million. kr better than it was when they left in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e834	This has been a strange day and a strange debate, because we have all been prepared for a cabinet question and we have all been prepared for the outcome of it. What's strange is that the government parties and the Progress Party obviously have some problems taking the consequences of the government shift we had earlier in the harvest. Normally, the parties who took responsibility for giving the country a new government – to give the country a new course, as they said – should also take responsibility for giving the country a new budget. They can't do that. What they've done is put in place a new government, after some things over and over and over, but they don't agree on a new budget. The only way a budget is adopted is through a cabinet question. I feel that it is devalued by the government parties. It is a serious and powerful instrument, and that means that we are having a budget adopted, but a budget for which it is not, in fact, a majority in the Grand Duchy. Then it's going to be something halfway. It will be halfway in the sense that the government parties have formed a government that could only see the light of the day by means of the Progress Party, which could never take the positions and government offices without the Progress Party, but they have problems taking the consequences of it, namely to adopt an economic arrangement with the party that brought them the government power. It follows responsibility to assume a government responsibility. Taking a government responsibility based on the Progress Party is a responsibility which means that one must also be prepared to make budgets together with the Progress Party. But obviously you haven't been able to do that, and instead you have chosen a solution that in the long run is not good, either for the country or for the Norwegian economy. What we are also seeing today is that a budget is being adopted that contains significant breaches of promises. The representative may include the study funding referred to. I myself attended a wide range of debates in the election campaign where representatives from the government parties were unique at 40 p.m. the share of grants and that it was to be linked to the major quality reform. The money is now withdrawn, and it is announced that it will come later. I was at an innumerable meeting where government parties said it was important to strengthen research and innovation. Now it's cut in research. It was cut into innovation. It is cut in the seed to give new value creation. I heard the government parties talk about more to the districts. Now it's cut. They said you would have a defense budget that cost about NOK 3 billion more than what we provided. Now it didn't get one penny. It is a massive budget breach that is adopted in contravention of what the Great Britain really believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e845	It was the knowledgeable and instructive article from Kristin Halvorsen that also made me fall for the temptation to go up. It's clear that for a party like SV, which had a good election result, but has zero influence and zero significance, it's easy to become just like part of the spectators of football matches, handball matches and ice hockey matches: you're so much better than the ones who're in it. And that's what characterizes Kristin Halvorsen now when she comes up with a canonade of criticism about how miserable work you've done. She would have been right if we had given ourselves for the very small things we were offered when it came to these negotiations, but we did not. We've actually fought like some lions for the voters she's talking about, and she's definitely going to meet John I. Alvheim in debate on these things later. But she herself and SV have achieved nothing. Clearly, then, the volume of voice, sarcasm, and the instructive tone take over. It is probably also the same thing that she is actually doing in terms of the bombing of Afghanistan. They've been so high on the track and fooled themselves to those degrees out, because it turns out they've been wrong, and so have they. Jens Stoltenberg has one point – and there I agree. I also find it regrettable that the parties behind the formation of government did not find a solution. That should have been possible. We think we should have done it. Had it been an attendance of the government parties and a flexibility, we should have been able to get to port. It's not a good situation that we're going into a period where it's not really a majority of the budget that's being adopted, because the government is now taking its position on the adoption of the framework. But it's also clear that we have to look at it from our point of view. All parties, including the Advance Party, have as their guide the policy they have told the voters. That's the main guideline for us. And now, at least, we will have the freedom to be able to influence the policy on the rest of the budget, on all committees. The starting point is that we want to have an influence on our policies and are open to further negotiations, as has been said earlier. And then there's a period in the spring. Jens Stoltenberg, and not to talk about Kristin Halvorsen, it probably seems that there might be new situations where, as spectators, they will see that others can have influence during negotiations on the revised national budget and other things. But that is something the Progress Party is aware of, that we have the freedom to negotiate for the best of our policies. In this way it is clear that it is a better starting point for us what is now the situation than if we had given ourselves for the buttons and slides we were offered during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e858	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, has had more articles today talking about the game. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, is rhetorical and always exciting and fun to right on, even though, in my view, there were a lot of characteristics in relation to the realities that led. But there was one thing that the representative Halvorsen ran on, and it was that when Carl I. Hagen says jump, we jump – even the representative Lilletun, even if she took a little correction on it afterwards. What is the reality here today is simply the opposite. The reason why the budget is adopted in the way it is, is that the government party has not jumped to the extent that the representative Stoltenberg and the representative Halvorsen thought we should have done to meet Carl I. Hagen. Neither has the Progress Party jumped. They've been on their own principle. I don't agree with the description that Mr. Carl I. Hagen gave us. But the reality is that they've been on their principles and we've been on ours, and that's when an almost unchanged budget from the Cooperation Government is agreed tonight. And then I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party for being neat in relation to what they do tonight: vote subsidiary to the budget. And then to the representative Stoltenberg. Now it is up to the Labour Party and the representative Stoltenberg to describe what they thought the cooperation parties should have done. But now it's not automatically such that those who have helped a government to power are the ones that one side cooperates with about the budget. We had a situation where a government also went off a few years ago, and then the representative Stoltenberg came to the other party to settle his budget. So it's not automatic in how to move on, as the representative Stoltenberg said. The reality now is that we get a budget that is good for the country. We're going to have a budget that serves to cut interest rates before Christmas, and we're going to have to work hard to get the Committees through what's the Storting's total job in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e873	Kristin Halvorsen was in on the game. I would like to be so strong that I can draw the attention of the Cooperation Government that the negotiations on the budget have been so far from any game on our part. I have tried several times in articles today to stress that we both had the will and tried everything we could to achieve cooperation around the budget. So we registered that the distance was too large, and that we didn't get it. At the same time, I fully respect the view of the Progress Party in this area. But to characterize it all as a game, I think it's wrong. Then to the representative, Stoltenberg. You have to listen intensely when the Workers' Party is talking about a breach of promises. There are many examples that the Workers' Party in the opposition has promised things that they have never done in the position. The representative of Stoltenberg knows that well. And then to the representative Carl I. Hagen. I disagreed with the description he gave of the offer we made. I believe that there must be an understanding that when the government has three weeks to create a new budget, and at the same time we give a considerable tax relief, the space we had to give to the Progress Party in the form of new measures was severely limited. Of course, it would have been a different situation if we had created the budget ourselves. I ask you to understand that. And we also believe that we gave significantly to the Advancement Party, but I note that it was not enough. Then it's true that the representative Lilletun said: Norway has got a good budget if it goes as we all think now. We get a budget and a new course for the country, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e888	I don't think there's any reason in this room to wonder that there are many of us who have a sense that there is a game that has been going on for a relatively long time. At least according to Jan Simonsen, the Progress Party has ended up voting for a budget that is far worse than the ones offered to them in negotiations. I cannot confirm it, because I do not know what kind of offer the Progress Party has received in the negotiations that have been held, but it obviously knows Jan Simonsen. In any case, there is reason to congratulate the Minister of Finance – probably as the first Minister of Finance in history – for having adopted a budget in the United Kingdom without moving in one comma, other than for purely internal medical reasons, not in the interests of the negotiating partners, but in the interests of the parties involved in this government. The feeling that there is a game that has gone on is reinforced by two things. Firstly, the recording that the Central Party made shortly two weeks ago, to make some changes to the government's draft budget, which could at least lead to a minimum solution in the Storting, has not even taken the government parties to respond. Nor has the invitation given to cooperation by the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party been answered in a way other than that it has been considered almost unprofessional because the recording has been late. But it is with respect to notifying the government parties that are responsible for providing for the majority of their budget. This testifies to nothing but the feeling of 100 pst. ensuring that you would receive the support of the Advance Party when you put things at the head of the hall, and that you felt comfortable with a solution that you have come up to in this room tonight, and therefore you have not at all wanted to make any attempt to find solutions with other parties. We'll take note of that, but it also shows what we can expect in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e900	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice. As this is a debate dealing with a cabinet issue, the President will allow the parliamentary leaders to go a few more rounds – if that is very necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e903	Fortunately, we live in a free country where the president's wish to take the evening cannot put a lid on the free debate. I'm not going to claim to be some big football expert, but I know at least so that you can get a yellow card for filming. And I think that actually Carl I. Hagen and the Advancement Party have got that today. There has been no excitement around it Carl I. Hagen has actually done it here today. He's on TV, that's right. If you think it's stimulating with cameras in the face, lightning, people jumping for you and wondering and like that, it's really nice. But I actually don't think there's much more to it, because what the Bondevik and the Government can do with cold blood is think, well, that's not like people we usually tend to deal with. Let me take an example from my own most powerful youth – and not hang my kids out, but use myself. Then the discussion with my parents was something like this: you can't force me to join the boring cabin trip. I'd rather do something else. Yes, we can, said the mother and my father. - You can't! - Yes, we can, they said. And then they did. But Carl I. Hagen is quite the opposite. He says, "Force me, force me!" [[Laughter]] Well, says Bondevik. Yes, well, says Carl I. Hagen. Why in the world should anyone drive and negotiate or do anything in relation to Carl I. Hagen another time? If the Bondevik government is only interested in going these humiliating and degrading rounds, they know very well that at least for a while they can only deal with Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party in that way, because they are not interested in achieving results on behalf of their voters. They are more interested in being on TV. And a lot of voters think that what they're watching on TV is what you're working on when it comes to politics. But it's actually not like that, because what determines their social security, their rights, or how much they get when they're spouses and pensioners, are actually the decisions they make here. And it cares about the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen's dying of death. Well, that might be nice to know. But I do not think that the Storting as such comes something particularly strengthened out of it. Shall we sit here with the roll of names, yes and no and draw down, and Bondevik sit? Can we hold on like this for four years – twice a year, three times a year, four times a year? No one comes strengthened out of it. People will lose faith that politics is a serious job. It may increase the entertainment value for some, but it increases the confidence that there is some point in participating in politics, that there is some point in casting a vote, that there are some people doing a really serious job, we don't think.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e914	I wonder if Kristin Halvorsen's performance in the pulpit today contributes to politics being seen as a serious work. I also remember the expression that by itself you know others, when it comes to doing things to get on TV. I want to say as both parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, I think, and the Right has said that what has happened is absolutely no game. Does it mean that every time there are intense negotiations, it is a game? Has what happened in the case of Kværner been just a pre-agreed game? Is your paychecks just a game? Is political negotiations on a government budget and on government formation just a game because it is incidentally covered by the country's media? Of course it isn't. It's hard-boiled realities. The insinuations that the Progress Party should have some other motive than to do its best to get a political impact on the things we have promised our voters, I think it's an attempt to strike under the belt. It was exactly if we had given after and not insisted that we could say that. I have also stated – and I think the Prime Minister has noticed that, and I am very pleased that the Prime Minister also said it himself today – that asking cabinet questions and using coercion is something you can do a limited number of times. For the reception it gets, is not exactly what Kristin Halvoren thinks, that this is something we've asked for. We certainly don't. We wanted to get to port with negotiations. But we've said that if we're going to vote for something that we're against, it has to be because voting really becomes something else. That is what the Prime Minister has done with the budget increase this evening, making it a matter of government existence. We've received quite a number of enquiries from voters who have said that something else they wouldn't accept, if we hadn't got more insight into some of the things we've been fighting for. But I want to keep in mind that that's what I said instead. Kristin Halvorsen is boundless jealous because she herself is not in what she calls the "game," and because she knows that as long as we have the current situation, she will be in the valley of shadows. It is clear that she is therefore doing her best to make life as miserable as possible especially for the Christian People's Party. The whole SV strategy is to make life as sour as possible for the Christian People's Party, so that they go out of the current government formation and together with the Workers' Party. For then probably SV will come a little out of the shadows' valley, get a hand on the wheel and get the influence that she now is boundlessly envious of that the Progress Party is likely to have for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e925	I also think the representative Halvorsen should be a little careful about accusing others of making policies for entertainment, when her own contribution was to the levels entertaining, but not similarly sharp in terms of the political analysis. I would like to conclude by saying that I am satisfied that it is a budget decision which is responsible and which provides a basis for lower interest rates, to the satisfaction of people, businesses and municipalities. There is a budget that is better than the Stoltenberg Government's proposals in terms of taxes and taxes, in favour of people and businesses, which are also better in terms of the environment, poverty reduction and working conditions of non-governmental organisations, to mention some important issues in which the Cooperative Government has presented a good and better budget than the Stoltenberg Government. Some have been concerned about the adoption of the budget by means of a cabinet question. But the whole of the budget and the framework of economic policy is probably the most important matter dealt with by the Storting. Then there is some issue that qualifies for the use of cabinet questions when it does not become an agreement, it must be the framework of the budget. It has actually been prime ministers before me who, because of the old budgetary system we had up to 1997, missed such an opportunity. Using cabinet questions is not humiliating. It's the opposite of setting a limit and then facing the Storting against it. Otherwise, I note that in the debate, representatives from the Labour Party and SV have criticised the budget of the cooperation parties for being too right-wing-dominated, while the Progress Party has criticised it for being too little Right-dominated. It is a good expression for me that this is a balanced budget in cooperation between the Right and Two Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e936	I would have slept badly tonight if Kjell Magne Bondevik had received the last word in this debate. [[Laughter]] I sat for a long time and assessed whether I should say something, and tried to keep myself in place, but when the Prime Minister again repeats things that are wrong, there has to be another comment. It is not right that the budget for which the Government Parties are now voting is better in terms of poverty reduction, better in terms of the environment, or better in the other areas referred to by the Prime Minister. There's a lot of reasons for that, but one reason is that he's not equal to the same thing. There are two completely different assumptions for the budgets that we are now dealing with and that he is comparing. One is our original budget, and the other is the adjusted arrangements both from the government parties and from us. The adjusted arrangements are better for all of us, simply because we have 2 billion extra dollars to spend because the assumptions and estimates in the budget have changed. With an extra $2 billion, we can all make a more pleasant budget. That's why you look at our changed arrangement, there's a clearer social profile in the Labour Party structure. We've used the increased space of action that we got, to strengthen the social profile, to give more to those who have the least, while the government parties have chosen to give more to those who have the most from before. I think it was useful to say that – if nothing else for me to have a good night's sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e943	Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e951	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the items on agenda No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e958	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2002 State and National Budget in the Grand Duchy meeting on 11 October 2001 and the Minister of Finance's statement on changes to the St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 on the State budget, including the 2002 public deficit, is annexed to the Protocol at its meeting on 9 November 2001. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e967	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I for 2001-2002. Case No. A total of 26 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 2, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 7-13, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 5 and 6, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 14-17 and 26, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 20-24, by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 25, from Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party The President noted that the proposals No. 21-24, from the Central Party, is withdrawn. In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2002, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 26 October 2001 and supplemented on 14 November 2001. No TitleRoom1State administration10 290 073 0002Family and consumer32 672 014 0003Culture2 258 550 0004Foreign trade16 022 201 0005Justis10 310 010 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour10 466 367 0007Day money, etc.14 587 800 0008Defence27 251 831 0009Industry4 708 270 00010Fiskerry470 820 00011Agriculture13 581 513 00012Oil and energy-73 849 420 00013Environment2 613 024 00014Storting et al.882 350 00015Social and health56 931 005 00016Population, social and health170 278 700 00017Church, education and research29 253 252 00018Samferdsel17 966 305 00019Rame grant, etc. to the local government sector72 539 300 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue6 709 474 00021Export guarantees etc.-387 400 00022Financial administration8 131 008 00023Taxes and charges 564 275 700 00024Distributions etc.-11 260 852 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund-141 849 505 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1209	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2002, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 26 October 2001 and supplemented on 14 November 2001. No DesignationRammesum1State administration10 324 573 0002Family and consumer32 450 114 0003Culture2 340 830 0004Foreign affairs16 156 651 0005Justis10 268 210 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour11 090 567 0007Day money, etc.14 587 800 0008Defence27 251 831 0009Industry4 832 77000010Fiskerry479 320 00011Agriculture13 833 013 00012Oil and energy-73 934 170 00013Environment2 607 179 00014Distribution, etc.882 350 00015Social and health56 832 905 00016Population, social and health170 087 100 00017Church, education and research31 003 572 00018Company18 743 305 00019Social and health matters1 to the local government sector73 620 600 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue6 509 474 00021Export guarantees etc.-387 400 00022Financial administration8 151 008 00023Taxes and charges 575 508 300 00024Exchanges etc.-10 713 352 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund 148 490 050 000 B The Government asks the Government to ensure that all municipalities that have applied for grants to nursing homes/hospitals in consultation with the House Bank and county councils/districts by the deadline of 1 October 2001 provide for grants. C Top funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. Municipalities pay a dividend of NOK 600 000. The state pays 80 pst. in addition to this, the costs.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1427	Proposals Nos. 21-24, from the Central Party, is withdrawn. There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget, to submit proposals for a new system to ensure that Norwegian seafarers are competitive.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1442	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortingen regarding the relocation of State jobs from Oslo.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1459	Proposals Nos. 14–17, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘A For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2002, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 26 October 2001 and supplemented on 14 November 2001. No DesignationRammesum1State administration10 336 213 0002Family and consumer32 143 482 0003Culture2 452 850 0004Foreign affairs16 501 556 0005Justis10 254 610 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour11 560 067 0007Day money, etc.14 537 800 0008Defence24 434 8310009Industry4 729 270 00010Fiskerry479 320 00011Agriculture13 801 613 00012Oil and energy-75 727 420 00013Environment2 790 179 00014Distribution, etc.882 350 00015Social and health56 078 505 00016Population, social and health170 287 600 00017Church, education and research32 567 302 00018Company18 403 605 00019 to the local government sector75 368 600 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue6 709 474 00021Export guarantees, etc.-387 400 00022Financial administration8 167 208 00023Taxes and charges-575 941 700 00024Distributions, etc.-10 573 352 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund-150 143 437 000 B Top government funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services where all expenditure exceeds 600 000 kroner per year. user is covered by the State.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to designate 5 billion. SEK of the Petroleum Fund for investments in the 48 poorest countries of the world [[the so-called MUL countries]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is required to assess the impact of all structural and regional policy decisions on rural policy.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a plan for increased labour supply early in 2002’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1691	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the preparations for the sale of the State’s shares in DNB pending notification to the Storting of the measures that can be taken to ensure that some of the major banks and insurance companies remain in national ownership.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1708	President! I voted wrong! I voted against, but I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1715	The number of votes 131 against and 28 for the Socialist Left proposal are rejected. Proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an action to monitor and combat the black economy.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to enter into negotiations with each county municipality on the settlement of the property stock and the level of the extraction of the county operating costs in line with the guidance given in the comment under Chapter 2.2.2 of the Innst. S. No 326 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1741	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to continue the organisation and ownership of the SIVA Society for Industrial Growth.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e1756	Proposals Nos. 7–13, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘A For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2002, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 26 October 2001 and supplemented on 14 November 2001. No DesignationRammesum1State administration9 997 814 5002Family and consumer32 888 159 0003Culture1 323 003 0004Foreign policy10 523 456 0005Justice10 628 223 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour7 709 511 0007Day money, etc.13 387 800 0008Defence27 710 661 7939Industry4 720 220 00010Fiskerry446 320 00011Agriculture8 359 013 00012Oil and energy-74 496 900 00013Environment2 555 839 00014Distribution, etc. to the local government sector67 648 691 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue6 715 724 00021Export guarantees, etc.-387 400 00022Financial administration7 925 893 00023Taxes and charges 534 344 700 00024Exchanges, etc.-11 174 602 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund-130 956 349 707 B Section 5 of the Appropriations Regulation shall be amended as follows: the following point 5 is added: Department for the Purchase of Goods and Services from the rest of the world C The decision of the European Council of 26 October 2001 on the allocation of the State budget to the Committees is amended/additional to the Financial Committee as follows: [[Foreign budget]] D Under the Framework Area 25, the external budget is allocated for 2002 as set out below: Income [[Transfered from the Petroleum Fund]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the legislative amendments to the Central Bank Act necessary to ensure the operational independence of the Bank of Norway in relation to the Ministry of Finance.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to make the VAT compensation scheme general to municipalities and counties.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide a regulatory report for existing regulatory regulations so that the regulatory cost can be measured against the objective and an assessment of the introduction of public payment to enterprises for work on forms that have only a public statistical value.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new system of full or partial financing of pensions based on the return of the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund and, in the case of sub-financing, proposals for the introduction of earmarked pension and health contributions paid by employers and employees.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of the basis for VAT on Norwegian weekly press.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a complaint in respect of the 2002 Revised Budget on energy companies and the group coordination of the land interest tax, the introduction of tax ceilings on property and technical tax changes in order to base spot prices rather than the company’s actual revenues.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2122	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2002, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 26 October 2001 and supplemented on 14 November 2001. No DesignationRammesum1State administration10 319 573 0002Family and consumer32 672 014 0003Culture2 272 400 0004Foreign affairs16 131 651 0005Justis10 265 010 0006Immigration, regional development, housing and labour10 694 167 0007Day money, etc.15 074 800 0008Defence27 251 831 0009Industry4 587 77000010Fiskerry471 320 00011Agriculture13 583 613 00012Oil and energy-73 854 170 00013Environment2 596 679 00014Greatness, etc.882 350 00015Social and health56 712 105 00016Population, social and health170 712 600 00017Church, education and research29 576 802 00018Company17 833 305 00019Rame grants etc. to the local government sector71 375 600 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue6 609 474 00021Export guarantees, etc.-367 400 00022Financial administration8 151 008 00023Taxes and charges 572 456 700 00024Distributions, etc.-11 215 802 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund-150 120 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2328	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the Aviation Agency’s economy and to assess the need for additional appropriations or other measures in 2002 in the light of the highly uncertain revenue base of the Aviation Agency. The review is also assumed to include the relationship between administration and operations within the Aviation Administration. The Government is asked to return to this in an appropriate manner to the Stortinget as soon as possible, and no later than in the spring of 2002.’» The Progress Party has announced that they wish to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2345	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to withdraw proposals for changes in state ownership, see Roman Numeral Decision XII of St.prp. No 1st@item: [[2001-2002]] Appendix No 4
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2360	The proposal for Decision I shall then be put to the vote. It is through this Decision that the Stortinget lays down the framework for the further examination of the budget. The President has understood that the Prime Minister has made it clear that the approval of this proposal by the Storting is necessary in order for the Government to continue. We are then faced with what is called cabinet issues in constitutional language. It's a tradition that, in such a situation, the Storting is voting by roll call, and the President will therefore propose that we do it this way. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2567	The name ring will start with Representative No. 6 for Uppland County.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2604	For this matter, a total of 32 proposals were put forward on pages 101-138 of the statement. It's the proposals No 1, 6, 10 and 15, from Hill-Marta Solberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 2, 8, 11, 16 and 24–26, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 22 and 23, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 3, 12, 17 and 27-29, from Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party, proposal No. 20, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 21, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the No. 4, 9, 13, 18 and 30–32, from Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, andproposals Nos. 5, 14 and 19, from Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 19 in the setting that will now be voted over. Proposals Nos. 20–32 are independent of the framework, so these will be over. The President then first refers to voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. The President drew attention to the fact that the Coastal Party should be part of the proposal No. 30. In addition, the Coastal Party has notified support for proposals No. 31 and 32. The President will first vote on these proposals. Proposal No. 30, from the Senter Party and the Coastal Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in the 2002 Revised National Budget to eliminate the inheritance tax on industrial property by generation change in unlisted family-owned enterprises.’ Proposal No. 31, from the Center Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer the matter to the Stortinget to make the corporation tax municipal and production site bond.’ Proposal No. 32, from the Center Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a specific deduction of income from agricultural incomes and to come back with proposals in the context of the Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2661	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27–29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose revenue-neutral changes to the charging system with a view to removing charges that do not have a reasonable explanation.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to submit a proposal for the repeal of the special rules for shipping companies in the tax law §§8-10 flg. with effect from the revenue year 2001, and propose appropriate transitional rules.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an overall review of the level of alcohol charges in relation to limiting alcohol consumption and reducing the level of illicit alcohol turnover. The level of prevention and control measures must also be assessed in this context. This is presented to the Stortinget in the context of the Revised National Budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2688	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to wind up the environmentally-differentiated annual tax scheme for diesel vehicles.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals in the context of the Revised National Budget to wind up the system of weighted annual fee based on two suspension systems.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a plan for the liquidation of the basic charge on disposable packaging for beverages as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2003 Stasbütt budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2715	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote a plan to wind up the levy on chocolate and sugar products by 2003 at the latest.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2002 to submit a phasing-out plan for the fee on boat engines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2737	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a review of the depreciation rates. The objective shall be to determine rates based on a depreciation period reflecting the actual depreciation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2752	We shall then vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The majority asks the Government to submit Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement for consideration in the Stortinge.2. Examination of the proposal for Decision II(B) of the Decision on customs duties for the 2002 budgetary mine shall be suspended after the entry into force of Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2769	The President did not get a vote here, so the votes should be 34 for and 129 against the proposal – including the President! The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution and we will begin with the framework section 19. The President makes it clear that there are minority proposals from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. One, two, three, four, five. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. The president assumes that no one is in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2985	For a brief explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2992	Mr Hagen has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e2995	There are now four areas for voting, where the sum must be that adopted in the previous case. There are formally no cabinet questions on these four frames. We disagree with them, we disagree with the sums that are in them, but it would certainly be a courtship if I were to ask a cabinet question on each of these four frames, with new name calls – despite the fact that Kristin Halvorsen thought it was nice to become more familiar with some representatives in the form of name calls! So we've come to the conclusion that in a way, we'll just include these four frames in the cabinet issue ratio that the prime minister has previously announced, so that it's effectively set five pieces tonight. We then intend to vote in favour of the setting up of these frames, and consider this as part of the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e3004	In order to release further explanations of vote, the President shall state that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have notified that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e3017	There are minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party for Framework Area 20. That is the proposal No. 6, 7, 8 and 9, which are now going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e3168	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and under this area, the Storting will adopt the tax rules and the revenue from them for the next year. There are minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – this is the cause no. 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. These proposals, too, are falling away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e8205	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e8217	Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – this is the cause no. 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e8663	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28-2.ana.ud1538e8675	We should be done with the voting under case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
