ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e45	The setting discussed today is a historical document. It opens up the possibility of finally establishing new universities in Norway after many years of stamina. That makes sense and right. Today's universities are becoming heavy-bore colossals. There should be some decentralisation within the university structure. There are many ways to establish new universities. We can imagine a solution where a large majority sees the need for a fifth university, and we get a debate on where in the country this should be placed, with a lot of lobbying against the Stortinget, with district policy arguments and a more or less random decision in the main hall. It is a poor solution to make such an important issue as the setting-up of new universities into a district policy issue, such as: the champions of an inland university do. The government's solution is not much better. It will lead to inflation in university titles. Of course, we could have jubiled in Rogaland over two new universities, if both the Missionary College and the Rogaland College had got this title in a short time. But it doesn't mean to change the titles and names of a school, when the content doesn't change significantly. What we need is a university not only in its name, but also in its content – in other words, a university based on quality and quantity. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the Committee joins the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which demands a broad range of quality before a university can seek and achieve university status. It gives the universities something to stretch to, which can be achieved through a common commitment from county municipalities, municipalities and businesses, private organisations and colleges themselves. It is better to wait four to five years to achieve a university which starts at a high quality level, rather than to achieve a title immediately without the professional quality that should accompany it. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Ursula Evje, for her commendable words about the Rogaland College. If there is a general perception, even in lots other than the Progress Party, that this college differs positively by its quality, there is little doubt as to where research funds should be invested in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e58	Not long ago I had the pleasure of meeting a biology professor who had just returned to the University of Oslo after teaching ten years in New Zealand and in England. The description he gave of it coming home from these places, was quite scary. He told me that it was like going back in history. While he had used other forms of teaching, had a completely different type of professional management, been evaluated by his students and at all was in a much more progressive culture with demands on him as a teacher, he came back to the University of Oslo, which was just the way he left it. This description I think more than he recognizes, and I think the most important thing is that we can do something exactly with it. The aim of the Workers' Party has been to change this picture of reality, and not just in the case of higher education. The Stoltenberg Government has taken the lead in reforming and renewing the public sector. We have to do that job, take those steps, so that we get a modern, restructured public sector that is able to meet the needs of the future society. And that's not easy. It's heavy, it takes time, and it's resisting. And of course, it's always the way that there are forces that will put the brakes on. Right is one of those cancers. Throughout history, they have been more brake pads than they have been with and have provided drag help for the reforms that have been necessary to implement. The Representative for Wage spent time in his intervention to present two of the reforms that the Government has promoted, as if they were springing from different ideologies. I was very surprised at that, because it's not sweet! Hospitals are never going to govern themselves, as wages will make higher education institutions. Tore Tønne has never thought that doctors and nurses should choose their own leaders. And this with private: is there anyone who has heard Tore Tønne suggest that Rimi-Hagen and others are allowed to own hospitals? No, the political dividing lines do not go between Trond Giske and Tore Tønne, they go between the Workers' Party and the Right, not least in the will and ability to take the necessary action, so that we can carry out the necessary reforms. The representative also spent time talking about, as he usually does from this pulpit, that the Workers' Party is starving the public sector, we're not giving enough money. I just want to end by quoting from when the pay side itself put in government. Then they said:... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e69	Time's up. - So then we're gonna have to stay in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e72	In my opinion, there are two winners today: the students, who get a better quality, internationally adapted and fully funded course of study, and the country, who gets more up-to-date professionals with higher education, most with education partly or entirely abroad. The fact that there is once again a worker party government offering an educational case has been, of course, in Norwegian school history. That it is the Council of State Gieske, who is young and has a study period close by, who has taken on the task of obtaining support for major and important changes, I see as quite natural. On behalf of the government Stoltenberg and for the benefit of future generations, he has shown the ability to be both visionary and pragmatic. He's supposed to be bragging about that. In Rogaland, the discussion on reforming higher education has largely concerned the possibility of being accepted or allowed to develop into universities. It's got a lot of stuff. I worked for a long time. I thought the message to give recognition as a university to those colleges who already have doctoral programmes was correct. It provides an important authorisation and is an important stimulus to those who have developed high-pitch skills at the doctoral level. At the same time, it ensures that not all eggs are placed in a basket against the goal of becoming a university according to the Mjøs selection criteria. Some of the professional training courses in Rogaland have already complained about this. I'm not in doubt about that. the Hojskull in Stavanger will also become a university according to the Mjes model. But I am sorry that the majority in Stortinget does not make decisions today that could give me. us universities from the next fall, instead of adopting a system that will lead to it taking many years. Sorry, there's no plurality in this room. But I'm slipping to the election campaign. What I'm probably most disappointed about is that the leadership at the Stavanger High School has gone into partnership with the most conservative forces in the university sector to limit other high-spherical spheres' potential to become universities. Talk about switching sides! At the end of the day, there has also been a great deal within the Labour Party also in the region about the Government's proposal. Universities and higher education institutions, major colleges, shall and should live in close interaction with society otherwise. That's what they do to a great extent on our topsole. I have no doubt that this is related to Stavanger's marble having external multiples. I'm glad that the number of external representatives is increasing all over the line, and that there are still open externally multiples, and I hope that several of them will pick those schemes gradually. I am otherwise satisfied that the Committee is asking for an opinion on the veterinary sculpture, including the question of clinical instruction. I am sure that veterinarians need training in the handling of farmed animals. The Foundation is competent and the yeast region has the largest stock density in the country. But this is what we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e87	The Minister of Education is a man of surprises. A short time ago, he made a public announcement that he wanted to wind up the school election debates because they weren't serious enough. After listening to part of the speeches by the Workers' Party's speakers in this debate, I begin to understand the context: The opinion was to close the school election debate into this room instead. Most of what has been said by working party speakers about Higher Education Policy has nothing to do with this matter – nothing to do with the attitude and nothing to the big message. In the big news, the Right has promoted a proposal on which we stand alone, otherwise we are largely in agreement with the majority. And that proposal is a proposal in which we ask the Government to facilitate that universities and colleges themselves can choose the organisational model. That freedom obviously does not want the Workers' Party to take the chance. Governments have defended their proposal for a study funding model in a way that has created complete confusion in Stortinget. The big message says: «Full student participation requires the student to follow normal study progress.» As the Council of State now argues for its model, the need for efficiency has suddenly disappeared and replaced it with heat and social care. This must mean that all student organisations have misunderstood the proposal put forward by the Council of State, and it must also mean that the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Committee have misunderstood it, since they have found it necessary to dedicate themselves. First, they agree with the communication's proposal, and then they ask for the proposal on which the intermediate parties and the Right agree. I guess it's going to have to approach the old tipping system of 1 x 2. It would be desirable if the Council of State were able to clarify what he has actually proposed in relation to the study funding model. When Stortinget treated St. report. No 20 for a while back, it was not stoned back on the stone by the council that had proposed. In the case of St. Announcement. No 27, there are a few stones that lie where the Council of State put them, among other things. at the assistance of the Progress Party. But on very many points, the bulk of the population has said the opposite of the Council of State. And it must be allowed to wonder that, after he had made the announcement, the Council of State spent months radiating around the country to argue with all its ingenuity against the proposal of the Mjøs Committee on an independent accreditation and evaluation body. In Stortinget today he says that it is a very good proposal, almost identical to what he promoted himself. It's not that easy to deal with a state council that moves on the terrain in a way that confuses you with a spin-bass.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e107	I have no problems with dealing with politicians in any case, nor with state councils that detect and take note of what the Stortinget says. But I have a problem when you have to write about the history so it fits with the present. The Council of State says that accreditation is now in order, because that is essentially what is on page 53 of the Storing Message. But it does not say about accreditation, it says about quality assurance. And what comes from the Norwegian Web Council is something quite different than what comes from the Mjøs Committee. But it's quite fair to change your vision, even after you've agitated for something else, but it's going to be quite wrong to present it as if you've basically meant it all along. It is quite fine that you recognize that doing this costs something, and therefore you are in the position today, which tells you that education costs something. But it becomes problematic when it comes to justifying that it has been said all along, for example. where that part of the notification, which is not very extensive, clearly states that, apart from the study funding promise, the financing model may be covered within the budgetary framework. And all debates, almost until recently, have been about it. It's positive that you recognize that it costs something. But it becomes very problematic for any clear debate that it is presented as if it has been said in essence all along. Finally, when one first argues in the big message, as the representative of Wage pointed out, that one should have a scholarship under the motto ‘Do your duty – require your right’ to get through, and then reverses and takes almost a political position that is completely different from before, and says that this is essentially a social policy measure. It is a measure to ensure that people get through, and then, for security reasons, you have to pick out the homes that might have to be so good that they just place the student loan in the bank and otherwise not stay at the university at all. If you're going to take this last argument seriously, and ignore all the curvatures before that, you're left with the following: with the students that start studying, there's a real debt fear, because there's someone who knows they can't do it. There's someone who knows they're in debt. Then there must be a point if we are to have a reform that is OK, which is motivating, and which is to combat debt fear, that we are to create a security in the first place. Instead of first saying that he stands on what he has said, which basically means something other than what he originally said, and then for security reasons, the Labour Party is going to figure out something similar to what the representatives of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are promoting, then he should actually take the consequences of it, and actually go in for that proposal. That proposal provides the basic security for those who want to study, while providing the motivation and reward to go through the system when you have good teachers, good teaching — a research-based education. Then you would have been completely logical. What we have otherwise experienced, I experience as a strong series of political curvatures and adaptations. I think that's okay. But I think it's terrible when you argue according to the Bolshevik tradition that what we're talking about right now is essentially what we've always meant. I even get strongly provoked by it!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e122	After hearing some of the speeches at the morning meeting, I feel a need to beat a blow for the colleges. It's a picture of the colleges that's obviously unlucky. Our higher education institutions are conducting research-based education, and they are continuing to conduct research-based education. They have a significant and heavy responsibility to conduct research against the local business community. It has to be very clear. That's why I'm reasonably surprised when someone can allow themselves to say that if they don't get university status at the University of Agder, Rogaland or where it might be, this would have consequences for the economic development of the region. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... We have colleges, and they're still going to do research. Then I would like to remind you of the comment that lies there, for which, unfortunately, there was no majority, where we made it clear that universities with doctoral degrees and with basic research responsibilities are to receive research funding in line with universities. It would have been a proposal that supported higher education, rather than making some cramped attempts to create universities of higher education — doing a great job and a good job as a university. I'm sorry that there's no majority for this clarification in the comment that we put in. There would be a handshake for our colleges, and then we would have managed to get a good division of labour between the different institutions. We really have two choices, as I see it: calling everything for universities, or having a division of labour between universities and universities. I am quite convinced that the model on which the majority is based is the best model, but in that case, universities that have a doctoral education receive funding in line with universities. So to the Council of State: I agree with the Council of State that almost all of the cases have been passed on to him. Once an accreditation and evaluation body has been brought forward, the Committee has not defined what should be important, what should be emphasised. We are voting in favour of this proposal, but we have a completely different emphasis than the one that the Right and the other have. For us, it is very important that we have a good evaluation body that can follow up the institutions, give advice, etc. It's in our opinion the most important thing about such an organ. And then finally, I haven't mentioned or said that students who come from the working class make the studies worse than others – rather the opposite. I am quite convinced that they are at least as good as the other students, but what is unfortunate about the new study funding scheme is that it will prevent them from starting longer education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e137	Rikke Lind drew a picture of a professor of biology who came home after working abroad, home to Norway from an expansive environment where demands were made on the professors, where they were evaluated, and where also the professors had clear objectives to reach. They came home to a system of stagnation. With the majority's decision, of which Rikke Lind is actually part, this will be a state that will continue indefinitely. The party of progress regrets this. We clearly had different objectives and assumptions, but it won't get the necessary majority. So I'm going to go over to the Council's response to my reply, which revealed a perhaps slightly arrogant attitude to the individual's right to personal thinking and to take independent positions. I tried to explain to the Council of State that the enormous savings that were found by the Norman Committee in «Towards a Better Knowledge?» would, far on the way, cover the increased costs associated with the proposals of the Progress Party, and that therefore there would be no need to use as much of the profits that we are stockpiling, as that Council of State led us to believe. There are limits, and there should be limits, to young people across the board. When the Council of State mates that he does not understand where the Advance Party takes away the money, it must be possible to suggest that a listening attitude to the other representatives of the Storting would be dressed in this context. I have said earlier in my main post that I do not want to participate in a howl against the Council of State. Nor will the Progress Party try to claim that the Progress Party owns significant parts of the reform adopted, even if this will be clarified over time. On the other hand, the Progress Party is concerned that good work must continue continuously in order to establish new disciplines of high quality and new research, and that students are properly and respectfully looked after. These are important things for us. And I expect that we will also meet in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e150	I asked for the word because I did not receive an answer from the Council of State instead on my first question in the reply to the Council of State. It was about how he can defend calling the message a quality reform, when it says at the same time: ‘The proposals for a new funding model for universities and higher education institutions may be implemented within the existing budgetary framework.’;» I did not get an answer to that. Does this mean that quality does not have to cost, contrary to what the University and Higher Education Council says? For the saying that those who wear the shoe know best where it presses, it is still valid. I challenge the Council of State once again: what is it in ‘within existing budgetary frameworks’ — what does that mean? Is it only study funding to be taken into account in the quality reform? Closer follow-up of students, i.e. more teacher follow-up, will require both conversions and closer teaching staff. Can the Council of State not admit that substantial funding is needed for the institutions if there is to remain research-based education at our universities and colleges? So to the representative Aud Blattmann, who had a post where she particularly pulled out the University of Agder, and now it had no special opportunity to become a university. As far as I know, neither the University of Agder nor the College of Stavanger have said that one doctoral course is sufficient – at least as I have understood it. In the hearings we've had, they've put a lot of emphasis on quality, and they've been aware that it's a way to go before they meet quality standards. When the Workers' Party makes a number that scientific colleges cannot get university status after the decisions we make today, I think it's something sought. With the broad experience and great level of research education that these institutions have had over the years, I will be surprised if not most of them will be approved by an accreditation body. For the Uppland-Hedmark inland region, an inland university is an important objective. The enquiries I have received have, however, put the word quality centrally. There will be fights about the students in the future, and these will be asking for just quality. We don't deserve to get any university lights, in my opinion. Of course, the decisions taken today do not prevent us from getting a national university in the long term. And when the representative Fallet says that the central party is failing the districts in this case, it becomes a bit of a relief. As you can see from the setting, only the Center Party and the Workers' Party have their own special comments about Inland University. So there's no majority to think about this in the Storting today, so the Workers' Party's proposal, where the Inland University is based, will suffer defeat regardless of the Central Party's vote. For the sake of the matter, it was best if the proposal was drawn or sent, but of course it is not my area. It is up to the Workers' Party to decide, but it would be best for the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e170	First to Marit Tingelstad: I am sorry that I did not get a response to the first question. There were many questions. When it is said that a new funding model can be implemented with the existing budget, there is nothing more dramatic than the fact that a new financing model itself does not have to change the budget of each institution. So it must not be that a new funding model makes some colleges, some universities, look terrible. We have to make sure that we start at level A, and then the model better reward institutions that do well on the level of the day. It would be dramatic if, for example, A college would cut its budget by 30 pst. because the financing model itself results in such results. That's what that sentence means. There are several points in the Communication that institutions need to be secured with sufficient resources to implement the reform. In presenting the message, where also the representative Tingelstad was present, I underlined this with both more money per person. students, research escalation and also the freedom of institutions to make better use of funds. Then to the confusion about the study funding. So it's on page 8 of the setting, in the summary that the comi-tea has written, very clearly how this is going to happen. It says that the student benefit is first paid out as a loan, and then it says: ‘The tibia comes step by step after the decals.’ The loan is converted into a grant as the study is completed. It is correctly described in the summary. The study funding consists of several parts: Firstly, an increase of 80 000 kroner in the cost standard. We've had an impact on that. A grant of about 40 pst. We've had an impact on that. That there is a link between completed studies and scholarships, we have a broad majority in favour. I guess only SV goes against that principle. So it's point 4: how are we going to do this? Here we have joined our principal model, but we already say in the message that we, among other things. must take into account student policy, student activity and student welfare, as well as all welfare arrangements for birth, sickness, etc. Now it is also said in the recommendation that you should look at the possibility that full-time students who complete the exam, who do the tasks required to complete a study, but who do not receive a scholarship, can also get a fixed grant. There's something quite different than the Right and Center suggest, where it's still going to be fully possible to charge 48 000 kroner in scholarships without ever having been to a study institution. I accept that Inge Wohnning believes that the Right's policy has nothing to do with the matter. But it is actually in the position that the representative, Mr Wohnning, put forward in February: ‘The committee believes that the grant rate should be at the current level and should be curtailed if the students spend more than normal time getting through the study.’ It is okay that wages think this is such an extreme policy that he does not promote it in the position, but then one should not hound and moralize over the policies of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e203	Today's debate has made it clear that there is a broad consensus that we should have a quality reform and that the Labour Party has had its State Council implemented for the most part. There is only one option to read and enter. One doesn't have to stand here with the big words for it. Then we've been in the Labour Party for something that's not in the message, but where we've been with the plurals and we've had some changes, and then a jam will be insulted for it as well. The way one has put up the debate is that one should take the Council of State. I seldom bother to characterize people from Stortinget's pulpit, but I have to say that the representatives Wage and Doorum have surprised me today. There's nothing but chattering about how a person behaves, and how a person participates in debates outside. It's made into something fun. In fact, I thought that one of the tasks that a government council had, in addition to all the major representatives and all those who are conscious citizens, was to participate in the debate on the quality reform, whether it is a matter of children's school, further education or higher education. That is the way a debate is going, which at least makes me react, when one agrees so much about the reform that has been put forward, that there is a quality reform that has more money in it and that it should be followed up in the forthcoming budget. I have to say that when the Right Inge Wage manages to go to the Chair and say that the Right ing Programme has nothing to do with this that we are discussing today, because it is an attitude that we now have to debate, I am also surprised. I actually thought that our policy here in the house was based on our party program. But that's okay. I also accept that one does not promote its own primary position. I think it's okay - but then don't give up so much attention to others! It is a very good study funding link to this reform. I think everyone today has made it clear what it's all about: an extra scholarship of 39 pst. It's good for the students. But then I actually think it's its individual here in the hall today that has been a little bit surprised, because they actually don't understand the entire content of it. It has been in a way better than what they felt when the debate began. All in all, I believe that the Storting should cost a lot of money to be able to end up with this reform, which is so important for higher education. Do not use the time to chat and chat over small things or how to play an event when you are out of debate. For people not to go – no, now I don't dare to take up what didn't get Rikke Lind read, because then I won't be in port either!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e216	That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e219	There was a major shortage in the mandate of the Mjøs Committee, and there is also a shortage in the notification. It is that it takes too little inwards the need for the organisation and opportunities of higher education for people with disabilities, especially the situation has been demanding for students with reading and writing difficulties. The treatment has partially corrected this. There has traditionally been little understanding for people with disabilities, and very many have been left to their own will. If they've been lucky, they've met someone in the system who's understood what this is. Maybe they've been so lucky that they've met someone who's had some knowledge of it as well, and have been able to help them. But many have encountered insensibility, lack of knowledge, and some also direct reluctance. It's tragic, because, in parallel to this, we also work to get more people out of work, not least for more people to be able to deal with income from their own work. What we know is that those with different types of disability are those who have the biggest problems getting work. If they get it, it's in low pay. So here there is a need for a series of measures that can secure these students we're now talking about. These include measures that make the right to education, i.e. admission, real, part- and real competences, and the provision of the necessary tools and educational arrangements for teaching. As it is now, you have such rights, but it can go both winter and spring before you get the help. Once you've fought through and been motivated, and then you don't get the tools to get started, it can be terrible. So this has to be in place, and it has to be in place quickly, so that when you get a place to study, you are motivated and have received, it shouldn't be on whether you get a grant. There is a lot of positive in the setting for new evaluation and examination forms. It will be positive for everyone, and very positive for students with different types of disabilities, especially for people with reading and writing difficulties. In addition, special arrangements will be necessary for some individual students with such problems. It has to be attached to the permissions. Finally, it is also necessary to have a diploma system, so that a stamp on the diploma is released, which means that the diploma is placed at the bottom of the application bench when applying for a job. It must not be on the testimony that he is disabled so that it remains at the bottom of the pile. I believe that there is a need for the organisation of these students, and that such organisation is legalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e232	Christian People's Party has long been a proponent and supporter to get a university in Agder. I am therefore very pleased that today there is a majority to follow the position of the Mjøs Committee. In practice, a university in Agder will be a reality in a few years' time. It is not right, as the Workers' Party's representatives, Aud Blattmann and Gunnar Halvorsen, from Agder today say, that this is a "lowlag for the University of Agder", and that the Christian People's Party pushes the university "out in the blue" – on the contrary. We're among the top speakers of a university. We want a university with a certain width, which can have a high status both nationally and internationally. When the principal says he believes that college will be ready as a university in a few years, there's no reason for us politicians to look at it. I have the same faith in this as the principal. This also has nothing to do with who becomes the first of Stavanger and Kristiansand, and that today's result should therefore be a defeat. This is a question of quality and the status that comes with it. We want not just a university stamp, but a content and a width that we need, and that we can be proud of. Of course, there should still be a requirement to use resources on the students. I also take it as a matter of course that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party still agree on the goal here, and that research funding will be provided so that the University of Agder can further develop towards becoming a university. A University of Agder will play a major role in the business life of the South and for most people, both to enhance their skills and to maintain their skills in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e245	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e248	To the Chairman of the Committee: I'd like to discuss Right's program anytime and anywhere, but preferably with people who've read it. The quotations used by a number of working party speakers in this debate are not from the Right Program. They're picked up from an investigation that you accidentally stumbled over once in a while in the spring. The right-hand program is available to everyone, and that's where our positions are downgraded. It is true, as the Council of State pointed out, that the Right has taken the view that the cost standard was the most important one in the field of study funding. Exactly the same position had been taken by the Workers' Party as late as the day before the proposal was submitted for a notification. It is probably also right to remember that the Workers' Party is the party that has most and most steadfastly opposed an increase in the scholarship share. It is therefore gratifying that the Labour Party has turned around and that we now agree on that increase. But it's still just as unclear as it has been in the whole debate, what the Council of State's proposal for a model is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e259	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e262	Of course, the debate on this reform is taking place both inside and outside the Chamber, especially because the Council of State made it clear very early that he would be holding the debate outside the Chamber even before the notification was presented. So that's a perfectly legitimate way of going forward. It is also quite legitimate to state that the Committee, with the votes of the Labour Party, has made changes to the notification. We've actually done that. There are also a number of points where the Workers' Party has been voted down in the Committee, but there are points where we lose, and that is the study funding. And it's still so that even though it's obviously clear to the Workers' Party's speakers what the Council of State thinks, it doesn't seem to me that it's clear how the conversion from loans to scholarships is going to happen. Nor does it appear after the last State Council article that there are now any requirements for the conversion to take place other than that of being present. Then I don't think you have contributed to any clarity, you haven't helped to create the clarification you should get. I hope that in the next few months the Council of State will contribute to that, so that we can get a solution. But the best way to do that is to keep voting on the proposal presented by a minority here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e269	I think it goes quite clearly as to what is the study funding model of the Workers' Party. I believe that we should look at the possibility that full-time students, not at attendance and absence protocols, but by conducting the examinations, deliveries, presentations or what is now the basis for the evaluation that is now to be carried out over the year, can also be given the opportunity to receive scholarships even if they are not in the profession. We'll see about that. But it's far from the model that the Right and Center doubt, by getting scholarships completely independent of whether you're actually a student or not. In the case of the Right Sample, which was headed by Inge Wohnung, there is a difference between this and what the Wohnung refers to in the Workers' Party's programme, for this was actually the Right Response to the work done by the Mjøs Committee and the Aamodt Committee. There was a review from their side of what policy the Right stood for in that context. And it must be believed that if the representative of the Wage had been sitting and running the Ministry of Education and had to send a message, these would have been the results that have been promoted there. And it actually says, ‘The committee will not propose to increase the grant rate... By providing most of the study funding as a loan, the students themselves will have to bear most of the costs of delaying the studies. The grant should therefore remain at 30 per cent. The scholarship should also motivate the rapid implementation of the study by reducing it by professional delay.’ So not enough that the Right would introduce a model where the scholarships will be reduced by professional delay, but they will be reduced by today's level and not get such a kind of increase. That's when I think it might be a bit exaggerated to go to the pulpit and criticise those who have actually fought through the greatest increase in student funding in history. And to talk to me about the school debate: I've never met the most rude Young Right person who has actually distorted the Right Policy to such an extent in any school debate. I've never experienced that. When you can prove that it is a different policy you actually stand for yourself, but don't dare to advance in the setting, however, then you might want to go a little bit quieter in the doors. So to Dørum, who has been very concerned about the economy in the message, and who has traveled the country and the beach around and said and also written in the newspapers that the Council of State Giske says that you should actually go as far as to take money from the university and higher education sectors and give to other sectors. There have been articles in many newspapers. It's simply not true. One would like to continue to use that kind of argument to prove one's own claim of a savings reform, even though it is actually stated in the message that sufficient resources should be allocated, and one also says once again that one should have more money per. student. But then you'll have to stop standing on Stortinget's pulpit and talk about being fair and real.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e285	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e288	It's not easy to realize what the different parties mean. One of the last to speak here was the representative of Stråtvej, who had a strong defense for the University of Agder, and she went up with the need to get research appropriations in line with others. At least that's how I perceived the article. But in the setting, Stråtveits party colleagues had the opportunity to join a comment from SV that states that universities with doctoral degrees should be awarded in line with universities. Then I'd like to put questions directly to the Council of State on exactly what's going on reforming colleges and universities, because I think it's a little unfortunate the debate that has evolved, where in many ways colleges are stigmatised as something slightly different that's not good enough. Does the Council agree with the Swedish Government that universities with high-level, good research environments with doctoral education should have funding in line with the universities for this education, i.e. basic research appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e296	Arne Lyngstad has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e299	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have not commented on the proposal for a «Green University». We also agree with the Committee's comment to investigate it on a free basis. However, I would like to add that we believe that such an investigation also needs to assess the location of parts of the establishment in livestock-rich areas. Then the representative of Frøiland was a little concerned that the confusion that probably prevailed this morning, now seems to have been resolved. Then I just have to say that the confusion that was created was created by the Council of State when he said in the context of the study/student that it was independent of the study implementation. Then I wonder, like the representative Dørum: how should the conversion from loans to scholarships be? It's still unclear, and it's left to answer. Are there any demands left in addition to being present at the university? It seems to me to remain as a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e306	First to the Council of State. I would recommend the Council of State to read Right's program and look at what we have suggested in the matter, before he starts talking about what we think about study funding. So, to committee leader and case spokesman Ranveig Frøiland. It's not crazy that the Workers' Party is changing their minds, but it's striking when you're being driven from shoe to shoe, that you're still trying to make this up as one says. Frøiland says the Storting must be very happy. Yeah, I'm pretty happy. It is not the Government's proposal to thank, but that the Committee and the Storting have done the work that Giske and his department and government have not done. When it comes to the fact that the Council of State and the Government have come through on everything important, I will ask some concrete questions to the Council of State in a number of areas for which there are multiples: When the Storting now clarifies progress and does not skip, as the Government did, all the financial obligations by saying that this should be in place in 2003, is there one thing for the Council of State? When the Stortinget asked the Government to design the legislation so that the institutions are given the freedom to design the contents of the Bachelor's degree beyond the first 20 credits, what is it? When we order the Government to include its international exchange work in the financing model, is that clarification one says? When we say that the criteria, regulations and procedures drawn from the Mjøs selection must be the basis for an institution to be able to identify university status, is that one thing to say? When we say that state high schools – contrary to what the government has said – should have the freedom to set up and shut down study facilities that last up to three years, is one thing to say? When we want to release mission research units at universities and colleges in e.g. company – contrary to Regeringa’s view – is that one thing that says to Giske? When we are able to reverse the fact that the Government would stop the system of invocation to a professor by competence, when we ask for an independent accreditation and evaluation selection – is that one thing to say? When we want a common law for state and private institutions in the field of higher education, when we want to continue and save the fee grant for foreign students, when we ask for the tuition fees for students at the BI School of Commerce to be partially covered – is that one thing to say? To be honest, if the Council of State is still trying to present this as one of the statements of the Government, I wonder what a defeat will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e342	Ursula Evje has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e345	Something about this debate reminds me of 'The old man and old man lay and pulled, and did not get up the root'. That's how it keeps going, and it keeps going, and we'll never get any further. Why I'm standing here now, I might be a little in doubt about myself, but I feel that it's in the name of justice. In the case of the Right sample and its assessment in relation to the Mjøs sample, the sample in 12.4 says: ‘The committee believes that the grant rate should be at the current level and should be curtailed if the students spend more than normal time getting through the study.’ 18 November 2000 – Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘The main principles are presented in the Bureau and the Central Board of the Right, without encountering any objections.’ Something makes me react to this relationship, regardless of whether it's a socialist or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e360	As far as the last point is concerned, I fully agree with what Mr Evje states. This was dealt with in the Right Central Government. There's nothing in the Right's program that you've taken away from this, so I really think it's a little too bad that the Right actually doesn't dare stand up to the policy you've designed yourself. But it's very good for the students and for the student funding that one goes away from this, which would actually be a deterioration even in relation to today's level. I have to mention a few things that I have not come up with, among other things. «Green University». We take note of the committee's position and will look at that matter. As far as colleges are concerned, I fully agree with what the representative, Mr. Rekovam, says. I don't even like the debate about some institutions being 'upgraded' to universities. In order to train teachers, nurses — vocational training — it is equally important to carry out broad research or basic research and the tasks of universities. There are different problems, but they're equivalent. The new funding model will primarily reward the quality of research so that higher education will also be able to participate in research activity and research appropriations based on productivity and quality. There is already a lot of valuable research going on at higher education. Then I also have to comment on the art scholarship, because there has been criticism of the model that we are proposing there. I think it's a model that's better for the arts students. For what happens if you're a fully trained ceramicist and you start up on your own and try to get into the profession? Is it best, then, to reduce their student loan by NOK 50000–60 000 – or what an art scholarship would mean – or is it best to be able to get a grant to maybe invest in a workshop, start up, have equipment and actually get into the activity for which you have been trained? I think for very many, the last solution might be as good as the first. Then to the confusion about the study funding. I can't say anything but that we've tried to clarify quite many times now. It's not about presence, as Lyngstad talked about, but it's about looking at whether for those students who actually conduct the study, take the tasks, are involved in the evaluation and the answers, and what's going to happen during the academic year is the opportunity to get a basic scholarship. But it's far from a model where one actually gets a scholarship completely independent of whether one is a student or not. Then all of these "lower laws" that the representative Løvik is setting up. Yes, it is clear that some things have been done that we have not suggested, for example. this with the Mjøs Committee’s university criteria. We think that's a shame. We think it makes resources spread more, and it becomes more difficult for these colleges to get the university designation. But when the representative Løvik says that it is a defeat for us, for example. that the international activity is to be included in the funding mechanism, that it is in a way a defeat for us, I would say, no, on the contrary. It's been a prerequisite from our side at all and it's perfectly all right, and so it's with a number of the things Petter Løvik was inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e373	There were two relationships that made me take the word again. The first was Agent Ausdal Starrfelt's posts, in which she expressed disappointment that the management of the Stavanger College is still on the criteria of the Mjøs Committee. It tells a lot about the Workers' Party's view of educational institutions. When an educational institution intended to be a corrective – a debate correction – in society decides in an early consultation opinion to meet the criteria of the Mjøs Committee, the Workers' Party's representatives are actually disappointed that the educational institution does not jump after the State Council of the Workers' Party when the Workers' Party has ended up at a different point of view. It's a strange attitude to those colleges and universities that are going to be a corrective thing in society, but it might tell you something about why the Workers' Party is not willing to accept that these get a more freer connection with the state. The next relationship is the repeated attempts of the Council of State to try to define what is Right Policy. This was also followed up by Ursula Evje from the Progress Party. But these two parties represent two parties which should have absolute insight and understanding that, before a decision is taken, one in advance has investigations and different positions as part of a democratic process leading to a decision in the body that actually adopts the party's policy and programme, namely the national meeting. And there's no team in the statements that have come up, that the Right Policy is as the Council of State or Ursula Evje says. What Ursula Evje draws up in relation to the quote from Stavanger Aftenblad is about the criteria of the Mjøs Committee, and the Central and Working Committee in the Right are mainly associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e380	Finally, of course, they should have money for research. I'm sorry about that, to the representative Wages from the Right, I referred to the selection work, not the program. But equally fully, the Right remains completely delineated in relation to study funding. And I actually mean that Odd Einar Dørum also does when it comes to the campaign he's been running around in relation to the "spare reform" that is now being implemented. Today, everyone – from the Labour Party, from the Left, from the Right and from all parties – is denied this is no savings reform. This is a quality reform, and all the parties are in favour of us agreeing to give more money here. Nevertheless, Odd Einar Dørum has traveled around and talked about this savings reform that has been thoroughly rejected today. Overall, students get a very good quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e388	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[See pages 3714, 3717 and 3718]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e402	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e411	As case spokespersons and first speaker in the last case to be debated in the Storting of the sitting CUF committee, I will do my best to continue the traditions we have – traditions that go on short and concrete. I shall only point out that in this Document No. The 8 proposal has made a number of proposals that have financial implications. A large majority have chosen to show this to later budgetary procedures, and we also refer to the setting both for the long-term programme and for the revised budget. There is one proposal that a comprehensive committee has accepted, and that is to show greater flexibility when it comes to the approval of trials under the training law. Besides that, I just want to make the suggestions where the Right is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e425	Petter Løvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e428	for which the word has been omitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e433	There are many interesting suggestions that we will consider through this Document No. The 8-proposal that comes from SV. I agree that the challenges of youth in particular are high and will require special attention in the future. It could therefore have been tempting to throw yourself into the election campaign immediately and make the big promises. The Christian People's Party also sees the need for increased resources and addresses this in budgetary terms, where it belongs. A good school shall disseminate cultural heritage, values and knowledge and assist children in mastering, unfolding and developing. A safe school environment with good school facilities stimulates children and young people to learn better. The Christian People's Party believes the school needs both an internal and an external upgrade. When the main emphasis is placed on building investment in the care of the elderly, efforts must be directed more towards the school. Last year, 80 local trials were started in Norwegian school. It increases exposure when you get the opportunity to try out alternative solutions that you think are better suited to the actual situation. Development locally also gives both pupils and parents a sense of belonging because the school is then perceived as their own. The central government has taken important steps to reverse the school pyramid, i.e. development of the school is increasingly concentrated in local school, thus reducing central governance. The Christian People's Party wants magnification and government to focus on the framework for what the school is going to learn, and to leave it to the teachers to decide how this is to be learned. In particular, the youth dimension has been poorly addressed in recent reforms, such as the 6-year reform and reform 94. Many secondary schools are struggling with poorly maintained school accommodation, and new ways of working also require new design of the premises. It is therefore important that municipalities take this into account when renewing school facilities. Some municipalities have already invested in investments in modern school buildings, such as Presterød youth school in my own city. Rather, they need funds for internal investment, such as more ICT equipment, etc. It must then be up to local authorities to see where new funds should be invested. To develop a good school, we need skilled teachers. The role of teachers must be strengthened by allowing teachers to focus more on the teaching itself. Other occupational groups may help with, inter alia: social pedagogical measures. We must help to ensure that the teaching profession is valued and respected. It is also important that continuing training for teachers is ensured so that we can meet the new challenges. In the review of teacher training next year, school-home cooperation should also be given greater emphasis in teacher training, as should the provision of differentiated teacher training, both for the purposes of education, the subject and professional immersion. The Christian People's Party wants a good school environment for the students to be ensured by law, and will come back to this when the Government makes its proposal. The Christian People's Party is betting on a good high-quality public school. The primary public schools should be free of charge, as the Education Act Section 2-1 says, and we expect the school owners to follow this up. IN NOW 2001: 6, ‘Growth with a price tag?’, we find several measures against commercialisation and purchasing pressure on children. It is encouraged to leave the school a free zone for commercial impact in children's everyday lives. But then it is important that the public provide sufficient funding for the physical environment and for educational material, and that we strengthen the growing-up conditions for children and young people. The committee stresses that the school is a public responsibility, that primary school should be free of charge and that textbooks should be free of advertising. Another measure is to organise value debates at school. It will contribute to the awareness that many call for in relation to the central role of the school as a provider of value in our society. These are useful contributions supported by the Christian People's Party. Private schools are for Christian People's Party no threat, but alternatives for parents who want other opportunities for their children in terms of alternative education or life views. In order to safeguard parental rights, we believe that these schools must also have the right to life. In this Document, No: The 8 proposal promoted by SV calls for a stronger emphasis on primary school resources. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered on the proposal, which is intended to demonstrate great flexibility in the approval of tests under the Training Act § 1-4, so that no requirement is made for all attempts to have a change in the legislation to be approved. For the Christian People's Party, school development is important, but development is not adopted – it is created. Finally, I would like to address the proposal where the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e461	Elsa Scarbøvik has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e464	It's approaching elections, and it's a struggle to set the agenda. I understand this document No. The 8 proposal as a contribution in that direction. I do not doubt that the intention is the best, but it is limited how much one can obtain in terms of economic bonds through a Document No.8 proposal. Let me immediately add that the Centre Party agrees with most of the proposals, but is opposed to the SV bound by budgetary agreements that require us to be more general than the proposers, who do not have these commitments, but who have also had no direct influence over and responsibility for the policy. At the same time, let me say that I think the case rapporteur has done a good job with the setting in a hectic time when we gave the setting for higher education. In line with what I said earlier, it is not natural to comment specifically on the proposals I, II, VI and VII in Document No. 8:109, as they are directly budget-dependent and thus have to be seen in a larger budgetary context. There is a political disagreement about how much the oil fund can/should allow to be used over public budgets and the corresponding amount to be transferred to the municipalities. That reality must be dealt with by the various committee representatives. The centre party wants a stronger community economy, and we have proposed debt cancellations just to provide better school and health services for the population. The centre party has repeatedly pointed to the challenges of youth in recognising that this stage has been lagging behind in relation to school reforms and needs a boost, so that the intention of the curriculum can be fulfilled. This concerns both resource access and educational development. Furthermore, it is necessary to test alternative forms of training and to provide more practical insights in many of the subjects. It is also important how school facilities are designed to take on new forms of learning. This will cost considerable sums, without me being ready to figure it out today. In the case of proposal IV, on the experimentation, the proposers are given a majority in order to avoid necessarily having to change the regulatory objective. In this way, SV gets a small victory. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that one stimulates educational innovation in school. In the context of the proposal on the details of the curriculum definition of local learning material, the Central Party points out that reform 97 is under evaluation. It would surprise me a lot if the not mentioned theme would be central to it. In my view, it would be unfortunate if political decisions were to be taken with strong results in the middle of the evaluation process, for which the Research Council is responsible. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is a considerable room for action by the individual teacher and school to make the training more locally anchored. This is underlined many times by both the former and the current Minister of Education. I ask, is it possible that the teachers are so loyal to the central authorities that they do not dare use the space for action? That being said, it is essentially financial resources that it lacks. An example from my home country, Uppland, shows that attempts at flexible school days are prevented because of the school skyscraper system. Here the county economy sets a framework in the form of bus routes, instead of pedagogical considerations. It's a problem. In proposal No 7 from SV, says that the Stortinget asks the Government to ‘include participation in everyday life and the psychosocial work environment in its proposal for working environment regulations for pupils and students’. This is ideally a perfectly correct goal, but how this can be fully implemented is the big question. The Centre Party believes that diversity and local adaptation are possible only if students have real influence over everyday life and a teaching adapted to their assumptions and levels. In the general part of the curriculum, which I hold in my hand here, I perceive that the cooperation aspect is the guiding principle. The emphasis shall be on developing good forms of cooperation between teachers and students and between home and school, focusing on a good working environment and good cooperation. And the prerequisite for cooperation is codetermination. As can be seen from this, the Centre Party fully agrees with SV in substance, but is uncertain as to how appropriate such a proposal is. I think the most important thing is to give the school and the teachers the opportunity to create learning environments where these goals are central. Responsibility for own learning is an important part of the participation of students at all levels of the education chain. Moreover, I refer to the joint comments of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e494	Tomorrow, Stortinget will deal with a matter relating to the future of the Defence. It is a big message we are about to deal with, not a budget. The majority of the population is going to decide to spend 15 billion dollars on frigates. They're going to decide to spend $6 billion on MTBs. This makes Storting independent of a budget debate. So the other parties moralize over SV who are trying to take up a proposal that goes on education, regardless of the budgets, and argue against our proposals by saying that this belongs to the budget. It does, and I understand that. However, when the same lots can spend more than DKK 20 billion on initial investment in defence in connection with a roll-out notification and commit themselves to this in relation to the budget for the autumn, one should be able to make a commitment also in relation to education, well aware if one believes that education is important. That's the jumping point. If you believe that the matter you are dealing with is the most political one, you commit yourself when you have the opportunity to make a commitment. I accept and realize that the other parties believe it is more important to invest in defence than it is to invest in our children. I take note of that. But then you can't go into the election campaign and tell us that education and school are areas of activity, because you have the opportunity to show now that these are areas of activity – that's the most important thing we're going to do in the years to come. Therefore, one cannot hide behind the fact that this is not a budgetary matter, but that it is a Document No. Eight proposals. For a user as said, a big message to commit in other areas, and then it's a lot more money than what we're talking about here. Nor is it able to support a proposal that requires primary school to be free of charge. We're in a situation where there's an ever-increasing proportion of people in the education sector. The study carried out by the Ministry shows that the balances are now in excess of 200 million. kr. This is an increase of approx. One hundred million. 1997 kr. I'm going to think that this estimate is pretty low. Opinion, which has done the survey, also says it's probably too low. Neither does the majority in this room manage to be in, to say that we shouldn't have large percentages, so we can't have it in Norwegian school. We have examples that children can't afford to attend camp because it costs too much. We have examples that up to a quarter of the students in a class have to say no to attending camp school because their parents can't afford it. This is unworthy of the Norwegian school. We can do something about this right now, if you want. If you think this is wrong, if you think this is a bad policy, you now have the opportunity to support an SV proposal that all the excesses should be settled. One also has the opportunity to say that we're going to spend more money in school in the next few years and undertake that when we get to the budgets, we're going to give $10 billion in the next four years to clean up the school. The Children's Ombudsman has estimated that an upgrade of NOK 15 billion is needed if the objective we have in the Environmental Health Protection Regulation is to be met. It only applies to primary schools and kindergartens. 15 billion kroner is needed – 15 billion dollars is available for frigates, but we don't have it for school construction. That's the actual situation, and that's what the majority says no. That is what they do not want to be involved in when they do not support SV's proposals. Nor will they contribute to the commitment to say that development measures are important in the years to come, to say that progressive schools that try out new forms of education should be able to obtain additional appropriations and support, and to earmark funds for that type of action. Neither will you. So, none of what we propose – important education policy, school policy issues – gets a majority, but tomorrow, you decide to spend over $20 billion on defence. It's school bet! I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e514	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President. Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e522	I made a strange turn here instead, because when I went down to the pulpit after hearing Petter Løvik's exemplary posts, I did not find it necessary to take the floor. But when the others have spoken anyway, I shall briefly say a little about the Labour Party's policy. The Workers' Party will have a single school of equivalency, security and quality. We want a common school where there's room for everyone and look for the individual. Adapted training is essential in order to achieve the objective of equal opportunities for all to develop the best in themselves, regardless of social background, cultural background, place of residence or sex. Equal rights to education are a guiding principle of the Workers' Party. At the same time, the school must be based on the community and it is the municipalities that run the primary public school in Norway. This is a demanding balance. Now we see it especially when it comes to school construction. The most important thing we can do to strengthen the school's investment is to give more money to the municipalities. At the same time, the Workers' Party believes that students should be entitled to a good working environment, such as adult employees. That is why we have sent out a legislative proposal on this at the hearing. It's getting closer to campaigning. With all due respect for the representative Rolf Rikvam, who is a real and constructive vessel, the proposal we are dealing with today cannot be seen as anything other than an electoral campaign document. But all the favours of SV, which addresses important questions. A lot of that we agree with. I could talk and talk today about everything the great Workers' Party stands for in education policy. The working party could put in much longer comments than we have done, but for us it is an important point that matters should be dealt with where they belong. It is not that the Storting cannot undertake obligatory treatment in the case of increased bets; we have just addressed and discussed a growth message here in the Chamber on increasing the rate of student funding. In addition to that – now I have spent two minutes – I will just show you what the case rapporteur said in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e533	For my part, I would just like to stress that although my party and my group do not vote in favour of a number of proposals in connection with a Document No. 8 proposals, doesn't necessarily mean you're against what's suggested. That's the way it is when you get a Document No. Eight proposals for consideration, that's what Reikvam's representative knows about. I just suspect that, when we get to the election campaign, we will be met by the representative of Reikvam once and for all after the vote and that proposal in connection with a document No. Eight proposals. That's why I also want to stress from this pulpit, so that when he travels around the election campaign, he can take the record with him, that it doesn't mean the same thing. On the contrary, there are many of these issues that we are actually working on in the department, not only with regard to SV's proposal, but also with regard to the proposal of the centre parties on teacher training. We have, of course, started a major evaluation of teacher training, and it may well be that the result of this is a more differentiated teacher training where you get more involved in the subjects, especially, I think, in relation to youth, so that we have to look at that possibility. In this respect, strengthening the municipal economy in relation to school buildings. We have to come back to the sums in each budget, but I fully agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that this is important. That the buildings should be architecturally designed in relation to educational and organisational expressions in the school, I consider almost a matter of course. When it comes to ensuring the safety and health at work, we also have a proposal on it at the hearing. The result will be presented to the Stortinget and addressed in this context. As far as ICT is concerned, this government has provided 100 million. kr extra to ICT at school in 2001, so we are also doing very well. In the case of tests, many of these are in progress and in the case of Proposal No. 10, on probabilities, I really don't even understand what the proposal involves. Because today, in fact, everything about the implementation of the curriculum is going to be free, and we in the Government, for example, are going to be free. would grant extra money to those who break the law, I think would be a very strange procedure. So in the field by area, we fully agree with what is proposed, but that is not the way we usually deal with major educational policy issues, especially when consultation processes and discussions are being carried out, which will in any case be presented to the Storting on a later occasion. We're going to bet on school. We have to upgrade school buildings, we have to develop the school, we have to strengthen teacher training, we have to train more teachers, and we have to organize the school in new ways. All those things we're doing. I am glad that SV inserts such reminder notes in a Document No. Eight proposals, but it's in the follow-up of the individual issues that it really counts, and there Reikvam knows that the Workers' Party will stand on. Finally, I would like to say that this is the last debate the Education Committee has had before the summer, so I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. In particular, I would like to thank the committee leader and the Vice-Chairman, with whom I have had very good and constructive cooperation, and wish them a good summer, if I may.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e550	There are two things in what Rolf Reikvam said, which unfortunately I had to take the word again. First of all, the representative Rikvam was a little surprised that when the Stortinget adopts NOK 20 billion tomorrow for the defense, we cannot adopt about the same thing today. I will then be allowed to remind the representative of Reikvam that tomorrow there will be a long-term plan for the defence, a staging proposition with a pre-treatment period of two years, which will be up, where this is precisely the purpose, while today it is – important enough, but still quite different – a private proposal. Moreover, we have been in all of these cases in the respective parties in the long-term programme and in the revised, which is three days until we are going to go through the Stortinget. The representative Rikvam is also trying to run one of the SV's old glan numbers, about free baseballs. What we have also said in the setting is that here the representative opens doors with quite strong tools. The principle of free time in the Norwegian Elementary School has been established once and for all by this Committee and this great crowd. I want to show what we have said quite clearly in the training law: 'The public elementary school is free.' And if the representative Reikvam then says that it is too unclear what is in it, I will quote from one of the most important preparatorys of this law, the setting, in which the plural says: ‘The majority emphasise that students are not required to pay for camp school excursions or education, but that one can charge for school trips and other truly voluntary offers. In this context, the majority will stress the importance of the absence of economic pressure on pupils and their parents and that the schools take this into account in the educational system.’ The size is a lawmaker. Of course, if there is someone who breaks this law, it should be stated. From the point of view of the majority, it is quite clear that fulfilling the principle of free time, which is the rule of law and the deepening of the sitting process, is not the task of the Stortinget, it is the clear duty of the individual school owner to ensure that the principle of free time is followed. And then it is unnecessary, although it is a good proposal, to adopt it once more. It must be possible to know and remember, or at least to be able to read what we have said and meant before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e564	If free school is a glan number from SV, I'm proud of it. I wish that more people would try out a number like that, because the actual conditions are, as I said, that it's a lot of peculiarities. We can't get away from it. Most of the peculiarities we know are for camp school. And that has the consequence that more people are not allowed to take part in these trips, and it's quite serious. If we need to change the law – that may be what needs to be – so that it is not allowed to take part in camp school, we have to do it. But that's not what the majority wants. State Council Trond Giske is trying to say that this is election campaign for SV, and that we're going to get good things in the election campaign. We don't need that, because we have a lot of other good things. I assume that the Council of State will use against us, when we get to the election campaign, that we went against some kind of defence grant and caused some kind of'mo' somewhere. He's going to be allowed to use it against us, and we're probably going to lose some votes in the areas where the council is going to score points, score good points. But then we must also be allowed to say that what is most important to us, which is not the most important thing for the Council of State and others, is education. It's our most important election campaign. And it's important to get this out because most of the parties -- I think almost all of the parties -- have suggested and said that education should be an important campaign. Then we have to somehow make visible the way in which we want to do this, the way in which we want to raise education and school as an important matter. And we've done it this way. It's going to be a little wrong when the representative Løvik – and I draw out the defense as an example – says that it's a long preliminary work that has led to the appropriations for tomorrow's 20 billion kroner. But I guess we've got quite a long time, it's $15 billion to clean up the schools. There is no news for Petter Løvik and other representatives that it will cost NOK 15 billion. These figures were probably obtained in 1997-98 on the basis of a very comprehensive survey carried out by the Children’s Ombudsman. So there's a lot of good work done before these proposals, so it shouldn't be difficult for the other parties to give their support to them and commit themselves here and now to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e575	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3718]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e589	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e603	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into 5 minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time limited to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e610	The size shall now consider a proposal for the legalisation of municipal councils for disabled persons. In the Social Committee, there is full agreement on both comments and attitudes. An overall committee is concerned about the creation of arenas where representatives of disabled people’s organisations can enter into dialogue with local authorities on the design of all areas of the community – this because it is not possible for politicians, case handlers or other actors to have all the necessary knowledge about the obstacles faced by people with disabilities and how best to remove these obstacles. Disabled people have extensive experience and knowledge that is important to include in plans and investigations that form the basis for policy decisions. According to the Committee's knowledge, municipal councils for the disabled have been set up for about a year. half of the municipalities in the country. The feedback is that where these have worked according to their intentions, they have been a very useful tool. The Committee considers that municipal councils for disabled people provide the opportunity to pass on user skills in a constructive way and that this can contribute in itself to the building of relevant services in municipalities and the quality assurance of services for which the municipalities are responsible. The Committee considers this to be an important element in the modernisation of the public sector. The Committee is therefore in favour of municipal councils for people with disabilities but will not prejudge the work currently being done in the so-called rights committee. As you know, the Government has set up a public body — the Strategy Committee on Rights, Full Participation and Gender Equality for the Disabled. This selection has been mandated, among others: assessing whether the law-making of municipal councils for disabled persons is appropriate. This sample is to be submitted for its adoption on 1 July 2001, i.e. in three weeks’ time. The government is also working to evaluate the elderly and municipal councils of disabled people, and reports of this evaluation are to be made during these days. The Committee therefore has a positive view of municipal councils for the disabled, but will await the work that is soon to be done, and see what recommendations are contained in these investigations and reports. The Committee therefore considers that by the end of this year the Government will have to present a case showing whether the legislation of municipal councils for disabled persons is appropriate and, where appropriate, make proposals for such legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e627	Some of the things that have made me the most happy over the four years I have been a member of the Social Committee are the real interest shown by all parties to improve the situation of the disabled. So saying all the decisions have been unanimous. And there have been several improvements in the period. There has been a revision of the disability action plan, which had ‘participation and equality’ as a sub-title. It has long been an objective that everyone should have the same opportunity to participate in different social activities on the basis of their assumptions. Still, this goal has not been achieved, but I believe that more and more people recognize that a society well organised for everyone will reduce the need for individual solutions. Personally, I have good experience with a municipal council for people with disabilities, where we were actively told about the solutions that were optimal for most people, whether or not one needed some adapted solutions. As a national election, this was very useful to me and my colleagues, and we were the ones who learned the most. This dialogue is important. The Council called for an overview of your rights. It was high time we put down a public sample that has looked at this, and is going to present its results this summer. It has also been important to legislate for a user-led personal assistance offer. The user is himself an employer and can decide which needs are most important and at what time assistance is to be provided. A separate action plan to increase the professional activity of people with disabilities has been developed. A plan for greater participation has also been adopted through more organised education at our universities and colleges. There are a number of measures in place – relief options, financial support schemes and transfers that may be difficult to deal with. Many people with disabilities have a small overview of the institutions involved in rehabilitation around our country, and many do not know that some of these institutions have a nationwide competence function that can help their suffering. Treatment trips can provide many good experiences, both physically and mentally. In order to know more about the different offers and to ensure that user participation becomes something more than a payword, it is important for the individual user and for the organisations of the disabled to keep an overview of existing schemes and possibilities for the assistance and support measures available. The Christian People's Party believes that municipal councils can be a good tool for this. As long as the scheme is voluntary, it will lead to inequalities in the service, depending on the municipality in which you live. The proposers remind us that today we have statutory advice for the elderly in the municipalities, but not statutory advice for the disabled. In their opinion, there are no fundamental differences between these counsels. Both are important to increase user involvement and to increase participation. The government has started a job of evaluating both of these advices. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, has a positive view of municipal councils for disabled people and will await the evaluation report before we make a final decision to legislate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e648	In order to achieve full social participation and equality for people with disabilities, it is not only physical organisation that is crucial but also the attitudes of people with disabilities to the community. Disability is faced with many life-cycle challenges. Organising services and specific measures that can help to enable participation in many sectors of society will be of great importance to people with disabilities. In this context, it is of great importance that society chooses to prioritise precisely this field, so that the everyday lives of individuals with disabilities can be facilitated. In connection with the presentation of St.meld. No 34 for 1996-97, the Ministry considered that it was important to improve understanding that advice for people with disabilities could be a good form of work to improve the conditions for people with disabilities. Int. S. No 114 for 1997-98, the Social Committee expressed the following opinion: ‘As an instrument to increase influence and as a tool in municipal work, the Committee considers it desirable to establish advice for disabled people in all municipalities, where appropriate. as inter-municipal councils.’;» Unfortunately, the signals sent by the Storting regarding the desirability of setting up municipal or intermunicipal councils for disabled people have not been sufficiently followed up. It turns out that less than half of Norwegian municipalities have established this kind of advice. This is not good enough when you think about the complexity of how best to facilitate people with different disabilities. In NIBR 1996-132, ‘Availability of disabled people in outlying areas. How needs are addressed in municipal planning processes’ has listed a number of factors that show that there are wide variations between municipalities to the extent that one has arranged for people with disabilities, or to say so in a more correct way: the degree to which it is organised for people with disabilities. Several years have passed since this document was presented, but unfortunately the feedback is many that the situation has not improved so much in this area. It is a reality that no politician, caseworker or professional can have all the necessary knowledge of the obstacles to disabled people’s meetings and how to remove these obstacles, if any, in order to make everyday life easier for each disabled person. The point of progress is of the opinion that by legislating municipal councils for disabled people, a person will be able to capture some of the biases that exist between municipalities in terms of user participation. It is therefore gratifying that, at least in part, a unanimous committee joins the intentions of the Progress Party, in that the Committee asks the Government to present before the end of 2001 a case showing whether the legalisation of municipal councils for people with disabilities is appropriate, and possibly come back with proposals for such legislation. The Progress Party hopes that this work can be done quickly, so that no more time can be spent, and so that it is not the residence address of the individual disabled person that is crucial to whether or not one is taken on board – and thus the quality of the organisation of the individual municipality for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e668	The living conditions and living conditions of people with disabilities have been on the agenda on several occasions during this ageing period, perhaps primarily through the treatment of the disability action plan, with the sub-title ‘Participation and equality’, and also in connection with several other specific issues, such as: this with user-controlled assistance. However, there are still many unsolved tasks and major challenges with regard to the living conditions and living conditions of people with disabilities in the everyday lives of individuals and with regard to public services, such as: in the field of training and rehabilitation. We agree that in order to improve the condition of people with disabilities, good dialogue is needed between individuals with disabilities, their organisations and the public sector and the arena. And you also need to find formalized forms of dialogue so that you can get in direct contact with the authorities. In particular, it is important to be consulted on time in the field of planning and planning, which affects all residents of a municipality, and not least those disabled people who need additional arrangements to be able to function as fully as possible in their everyday life and situation. That is why we agree with the intention that there must be a formalisation here, and that through the establishment of municipal councils for the disabled, such formalisation can be achieved. I would also like to point out, for the sake of order, that about half of Norwegian municipalities have such municipal councils today, and that this is a proposal to legislate for all municipalities. The central government, after the treatment of the disability action plan, reduced a public body, the Manneråk Committee, to look at the rights and full participation and equality of people with disabilities. This strategy selection was also mandated to assess whether it was appropriate to legislate municipal councils for people with disabilities. In just a few weeks, the selection will present its setting. And with that in mind, the committee agrees that we should look at these things, plus evaluation of the function of the elderly, and also at the municipal councils for disabled people who have been in force now. By the end of 2001, we ask the Government to present a case which could result in the statutory adoption of disability advice in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e677	SV also supports part of the setting here, and we believe that a municipal council for disabled people is necessary. But the most important thing is that you listen to the advice you get, and that you have the generosity to follow up with the financial resources for the necessary organization, even when it costs money that is not intended to be earmarked specifically for any groups. For this is about adding to the right society so that everyone can have the same availability in the same places. And what works for disabled people works very well for everyone else. But a lot is built, and that means you have to go into the buildings that are there, you have to go into the transport systems that are there, you have to go into the housing facilities that are there, and you have to be willing to make arrangements that make the advice that we hope we are now going to set up, not just become a new hearing body that remains sitting and has said from, but has not been heard. It's very important. I think that some of the things that have to do with politics today are that you don't seem to be able to solve problems for people, and I think you have to do much more than what you do today, and especially for people with disabilities. Because it's unacceptable among the population otherwise that we can't make up for them. I have a rather fresh example from my own county, a municipality where you have built a new health centre where it turns out that the elevator is so that if you drive up on a floor and roll out a little quickly with the wheelchair, then a risk to roll down the stairs. Or if you're a little unlucky and don't get out of the elevator soon enough, then you can get ugly and dangerous hugged in the door, because it goes fast again. And that tells us that the sea in barley that's all new, this can be bad. I had the joy before I entered the Stortinget to be a student at the Lillehammer High School, which was then a fluttering new building that was built to the Olympiad at Lillehammer. There were also disabled fellow students, and we had to carry the wheelchairs up in the new auditoriums in order for them to have room and a table to write on at all. So that's how it works until today, and it can't continue to be that way. SV believes that getting community advice for people with disabilities can help to focus on this in a better way than what we've been given today. But I want to repeat again that we have to have the roughness enough to make sure that the advice they give us is realized. And maybe we should have a little disabled person's advice in Stortinget, too, because neither the main hall nor the large-scale building is well organized for people with disabilities. And I might think that in the name of modernisation, we should aim to provide the same accessibility for disabled people to e.g.. bemoan a job as a staging representative that we give to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e702	I'll be brief. I believe that there will be no major debate on this issue, but as the author of the proposal, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that there is at least an overall committee attached to this proposal protocol, which indicates that something is happening now that should result in concrete action in relation to the state budget for the autumn. Our proposal is to ask the Government to consider a change in the rules which means that the public interest covers the additional costs of specially adapted training and sports equipment for disabled people over 18 years of age, possibly carrying out trials involving the same, and to launch attempts to borrow certain types of sports equipment for disabled people. It turns out the government is working on such a case. In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the legislation on training equipment and a number of other specialised leisure and play equipment are now being reviewed, and the economic consequences of lifting or extending the age limit in order to provide free equipment to practitioners are being explored. It is very important that people over the age of 18 can also be provided with such equipment in order to expand their activity cycle and be more active both in leisure time and perhaps in other contexts, which in turn can lead to a strong improvement in the quality of life and contribute to rehabilitation so that they can return to normal function as much as possible. Finally, it remains to be seen that the Committee considers that it is not necessary to go along the path of pilot schemes but wants a rapid assessment and that this should be done in the context of the State budget. We hope that there are realities in what comes from the Government of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e727	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e745	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e759	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e774	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e788	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e802	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e816	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e830	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e844	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e855	In fact, I would have felt more comfortable if this proposal on supplementary appropriations had included all of our regional hospitals and the Radium Hospital. Those of us who follow closely in the budgetary situation for all of our regional hospitals may not have avoided having recorded that the budgetary situation of all regional hospitals, including the Radium Hospital, is alarming and that all regional hospitals have had to reduce their treatment provision in order to keep their budget balance. On this basis, I have no problem understanding the irritation from other regional hospitals and county municipalities that there is only a proposition about supplementary funding for the Rikshospital, but on the other hand I cannot agree with the criticism raised by many, that there is a special treatment of the Rikshospital we are doing here. This is a way of thinking that, at least, does not protect the interests of patients. Odelstinget has recently adopted what we call the hospital reform, a reform that is rightly called the responsibilities reform, because it is precisely the total responsibility for the specialist health service that is now being transferred to the state, and the state will at any time be accountable to the Stortinget by the Minister of Health. In my opinion, it should not be a surprise to any political party here in Stortinget that the resources of the other regional hospitals, and to the extent of the entire hospital system, are too scarce for the current year of operation. It should be equally known to all of us that the hospitals in the current term will not be able to use the total capacity for patient treatment due to lack of resources. What for me and the Progress Party is also a paradox this time, is that, despite their knowledge of reduced operation due to the lack of resources in our hospitals, the other parties in this process are not willing to provide sufficient money to maintain full treatment capacity. In the light of the criticism of the special treatment of the Rikshospitalet presented by all the other parties, I really expected these parties in the revised national budget to have entered and allocated more funds to the other regional hospitals. This is as far as I know, not done. Only the Progress Party has committed 40 million in the revised national budget. kr for all other regional hospitals, including the Radium Hospital. And not only that, in addition, the Progress Party has increased the input-based funding by 500 million. and proposed the removal of the crypt that is and has been an accident for the progressive treatment of patients. I have also registered that some political parties have expressed strong criticism of the management of the Rikshospitalet because one has had to make proposals for cutting off the treatment services for very heavy patient cases, not least in relation to children and young people and in relation to cancer treatment and treatment for reumatics. I think it is directly premature and immoral for some politicians to question the Rikshospitalet's motive in terms of the savings measures presented. I do not envy the Rikshospitale's management for the tough proposals that it has been necessary to save the 40 million that were missing in the Minister of Health's proposal. In fact, something else the Rikshospital could not do, especially in the light of the new funding mechanism we now have, and which most people agree that we should continue to have. In this context, one must look at the economy, the lack of income and increasing expenditure. Also, this case focuses heavily on the need for intensive work to improve the DRG rules, so that any hospital, regional hospital or other hospital really gets paid through the input-based funding for the cost of treatment. With a price of 80 pst. this problem would have been solved. However, when we get one hospital owner and one finance manager, I have good faith that the suspicion of former county municipalities that we have seen from the Ministry in connection with input-based funding is now gone, as it is now the state itself that is responsible for the difference between the cost of treatment and what is reimbursed. However, these are questions that I feel convinced that the Storting will have to come back to when we are going to get an investigation into the future financing of our somatic and psychiatric hospitals. I have no problem saying that I agree with the Minister of Health that there is not only a lack of resources that creates the problems of long waiting lists in our public hospitals, but perhaps to the same extent the internal organisation. The large supply of resources, not least by doctors and senior staff we have had in recent years, has not given rise to the expected increase in treatment capacity. It goes without saying that something must be wrong with the internal organisation of our hospitals as we constantly increase the number of doctors, the number of nurses and other health professionals and increase resources and yet almost on-site rest in terms of treatment capacity. During the examination of the present allocation proposal in the Committee, it looked promising that the Rikshospital would receive the 40 million. Extra kroner that you asked for, and a total grant of 270 million. kr. Unfortunately, in my view, it was fatal that at the end of the treatment phase in the committee, the centre parties jumped off the load and reduced their additional allocation from 40 to 30 million. kr, which has been included in the revised national budget. I can actually just describe this as the top of pettyness. It could be tempting to ask some specific questions to the centre parties in this context. What patient categories of the group the Rikshospital itself has estimated will lose its offer is what is now to be reduced its offer equivalent to the 10 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Are parts of the Berg Farm to be laid down? Is it the dove plants of deaf-born children to be reduced? Or are there fewer cancer patients going to have bone marrow transplants to survive that way? This minority must have thought through and be able to answer. Have you already forgotten the big words you used to say that you couldn't accept the reductions the Rikshospital put forward? Is it forgotten about everything? No, the center parties are always talking about values and human vision. What values are used here to cut the allocation by 10 million? kr when you so well know that this required the Rikshospital to maintain the operation and treat these seriously ill patients this is about? Finally, I address the minority proposal on which the Progress Party is involved and which is present in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e891	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e894	President! I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e901	Annelise Höegh – to a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e904	I must immediately arrest the committee leader as to what he said about the suspension of the revised national budget. If I understood him correctly, he said it was just the Progress Party that proposed 40 million. kr for the other regional hospitals. I can at least correct him on the Right by saying that we have added 250 million. kr, which, as far as I know, is 50 million. kr more than the Progress Party has proposed, and I also think SV has additional funding, as promised in the setting we are dealing with here today. When such misunderstandings, which are purely disinformation, are to be brought first to peat, you have to get involved in the setting mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e909	Does the representative, Mr Alvheim, wish to comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e912	I am fully aware of what the Right has put into the revised national budget. I also said that the Advance Party has invested 500 million. SEK in input-based funding plus 40 million. kr for each of the regional hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e917	The Rikshospital has been in deficit both in 1999 and 2000. The operational situation has now improved significantly by the completion of the relocation and the start of the normalisation of operations in the new premises. The relocation was carried out as planned, and the employees have done a very good job in this respect. Work on transferring patients from one day’s stay to one day’s work and outpatient treatment continued in 2000 and the average bedtime has decreased. In its report, the board said that last year's deficit was due to an increase in the operating costs of the new Gaustad plant, a lack of appropriations related to specific wage costs, and that the DRG system provides a lack of compensation for the activities of the Rikshospitalet. The Rikshospital stands in a special position, with a high proportion of cost-intensive national functions and multiregional functions, as well as many tried and tested treatment procedures. When pricing is based on average intervals, the Rikshospital necessarily gets worse than those hospitals that have consistently lighter patients. Financial systems need to be further developed in order to establish more cost-effective pricing. The Ministry aims at a review of the funding mechanism to assess simplifications and improvements, as we are familiar with. Cost-saving measures must be designed to protect, as far as possible, groups of patients with severe disorders who cannot be offered elsewhere than at the Rikshospitalet. When the Rikshospital was to save another 40 million. NOK, it was not to avoid this going beyond the patient offer. We found it very difficult to accept that this led to the closure of offers for highly vulnerable groups, and are pleased that an acceptable solution has been found for the treatment of the revised national budget. The management of the National Hospital has decided that a general saving of 3 pst should be carried out. This has resulted in a savings of between 50 and 60 million. kr. Nevertheless, it turned out to be an additional need for a back-up of approximately 270 million. kr. The Rikshospital itself has shown that there is a significant savings potential by increasing the effectiveness of hospital operations in the long term. Between 1997 and 1999, according to Samdata, the Rikshospitalet has had a weakened efficiency compared to other regional hospitals. However, one must understand that financial management has been problematic in the turbulence around the relocation process in 1999 and 2000. It is right that the Rikshospital should commit itself to a three-year action plan and review all possibilities for efficiency improvement. However, this hardly has any impact on the current year’s budget. It requires tight economic governance to minimise negative consequences for patients when it comes to streamlining effectiveness. The National Hospital Board has a responsibility to facilitate an operational plan adapted to both the financial framework and the responsibilities of the hospital to deal with patients who will have an offer at this hospital. It is unacceptable that it should be cut into offers under vulnerable groups — especially children. Offers which can be made mainly only at the Rikshospitalet must be protected. Furthermore, the Labour Party refers to the treatment of the revised national budget, where one will add another 30 million to the Rikshospitalet. kr. On this basis, we join the Government's proposal to strengthen the Rikshospitalet's economy by 230 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e949	In the proposal, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is promoting proposals for an increase of 230 million. DKR of the appropriations under the heading. 731 National Hospital on the State Budget for 2001. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal and, in addition, together with the Labour Party and the Central Party, refers to the treatment by these parties of the revised national budget, which will lead to an increase in the chapter. 731 item 50 with an additional 30 million. kr in relation to the proposal in this proposition. The background for this addition is that the Rikshospitalet pointed out that the difference between the 270 million. kr as the hospital requested, and the 230 million. kr proposed in the proposition would result in savings with significant negative consequences for different medical offers to highly needy patients. The Christian People's Party has noted that there are several reasons for the increased operating costs and budget excesses at the Rikshospital in the current year. Among these reasons, a relatively low DRG coverage of highly specialised treatment services has also been mentioned. The Christian People's Party is aware of this problem, which is also present at the other regional hospitals, both because these hospitals generally get the heaviest patients within each diagnostic group, and because these hospitals also have highly specialised, costly multi-regional or country functions. We have to assume that the savings plan presented by the Rikshospitalet, which would involve painful cuts that will affect vulnerable patient groups, has been carefully evaluated in an overall perspective, and that this would really be the consequences if the Rikshospitalet did not receive additional funding beyond the 230 million. kr. The weakness of the ISF system, which is pointed out, is real. As mentioned, we must assume that the same applies to the submitted savings plan. That being said, I still allow myself to doubt that some hospital owned by a county council would dare to submit such a plan to the hospital's owners, with unilateral cuts on heavy, patient-oriented sectors. The National Hospital does not seem exactly to be a good advertisement for state hospital operations. The Christian People’s Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, promotes a proposal to ask the Government to ‘make a full review of the operation at the Rikshospital and present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner’. I address this proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e964	The representative Are Næss has drawn up the proposal he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e967	It is gratifying for someone who has worked for a new rickshospital in Gaustad since the mid-1980s to be involved in ensuring the hospital’s responsible operation – now that it has finally come into place up there. The right has always thought that the majority planned an too small hospital. Unfortunately, we have got the right, but so late that the expansions have slowed down and considerably destroyed the project. It's not just the Rikshospitale that's struggling with the economy, and it's getting a steady deficit. This also applies to most other hospitals. This is probably due to poor use of resources, both internally and through the national framework conditions we provide. Like many others, I am concerned that the new hospital reform, the responsibilities reform, through its unique location of responsibility for government and corruption, will make it possible to make better use of resources, both at the Rikshospitalet and at the other hospitals. And not least, I hope that in the years to come, through the preparation and conclusion of agreements between regional health care companies and individual hospital companies, a tool will be developed that can give us a price of what individual interventions cost, what individual measures cost. Because it's only on the day you get a real pricing that you agree to, that you can give real budgets, so you can know who it is that has budgeted so that it goes to the tasks that you expect to be solved, or who it is that has not used the budget in a way that you could expect. But I'm afraid it's a little bit ahead of you. In the meantime, the exceedances have to be assessed when they arrive. But the deviations are so great between what is granted by the Stortinget at the beginning of the year, and the deficits that soon appear both at the Rikshospital and elsewhere, that there must be something about our framework conditions that is very wrong, because I consider the management of today's Reichshospital as both highly professional and competent – perhaps among the most competent in the country. And they don't do Scare Propaganda. The cut list the management and board at the Rikshospitalet had to go out with, has actually been assessed based on their best judgement as to what they have to do, given that they do not get the appropriations they think they need. The National Hospital has successfully implemented one of Norway’s largest relocation projects, with good results. In fact, good planning and impressive efforts by all involved resulted in that the waiting time for treatment was no longer in the move in 2000, and that is quite impressive, I think. There are still repairs for the hospital before it is fully functional. Nevertheless, the hospital has launched a very ambitious and very demanding efficiency programme for the current year to provide up to 60 million savings. kr. All Rikshospitalet departments are subject to savings which are not intended to affect treatment provision for individual patients. However, with the full success of the demanding efficiency programme, there is a growing need of 270 million. according to the management. We find no reason to dispute it. It is therefore gratifying that the department and also the majority are almost there, but the more disappointing – which was also the committee leader – that we are not going to the goal. Either you believe in the management that's up there saying that the consequences are not getting 270 million. kr, or you don't believe it, because a very large proportion of the Rikshospital income is activity-based. To achieve a saving of 10 million. kr, which is assumed by the majority, yes, it is therefore necessary to reduce costs far more than this amount, because savings are to be carried out in just under six months. The majority’s proposals for decisions – I am now talking about revised – can therefore have far greater consequences than one might think. There are still a few days left to deal with the revision, and I can only encourage the majority and the Minister of Health to think well about whether it is really the case that single patients and single treatment should be affected in the way it is likely to be affected, if the majority remains firm on its proposal for a decision. And speaking of the revision, I really have to ask, how is it possible just to see the Rikshospitalet's problems? How is it not possible to see the whole, that the other regional hospitals are struggling with daunting, similar problems as the Rikshospital does? The right, as I have already said, has proposed in the revised proposal to grant additional 250 million. to regional hospitals and to improve the ISF scheme. We are responsible for health policy throughout the country. That responsibility takes the right, and I really hope that the majority also does so by giving additional funding to the Rikshospital and to the other regional hospitals, which, through the system we have today, are disproportionately poor because they have a much larger element of complex, complex suffering than the rest of the hospital system. Then I recommend and take up the proposal that the Right, along with others, has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e986	The representative of Høegh has drawn up the proposal she made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e989	This case is clear in the sense that it shows the consequences of the economic situation at the Rikshospitalet if no additional funds are allocated. The government has presented this as a separate deposit proposition. It's proposing to grant 230 million. extra kr for the Rikshospitalet in that context. Then it happens that the government party proposes that the rest of this be looked at in the context of the revised national budget, and that there should be 30 million allocated. kr extra in relation to the 230 million. as the Government recommends in this case. It would have been better if we had got one case and could have seen everything in context there, while we had got a similar overview of our other regional hospitals, including the Radium Hospital, as well as the other. The chairman of the committee was present. There has been a significant overrun of the budget originally established by the Rikshospitalet. Despite a saving program of about 60 million. So kr is the indicated additional demand of 260-270 million. kr. This is due in particular to the fact that, after the Committee has been consulted, there has been much greater maintenance costs and operating costs associated with the significant medical and technical equipment and facilities at the Rikshospitalet, not least in relation to service contracts and maintenance agreements. It seems that predictability and overview have not been good enough. This also comes in with the DRG coverage, especially in relation to highly specialised treatment services. It is something that affects our regional hospitals and the Radium Hospital, but also a part of what we can call high-cost medicine at our other hospitals – which to this day is still owned by the county municipalities. It's very worrying. The savings proposals from the Rikshospital had significant negative consequences, and when we got proof of what would happen by saving so much, we said it was unacceptable. Among other things, it was Berg Gård, who is responsible for and supervises the follow-up of, among other things. strong cerebral paresis-framed child. This was also true of Revmatology, which is a priority task at the Rikshospitalet, and the same was true of the neurological department, the haematological department, and implant surgery, such as: would hit deaf-born children. We now hope for a further 230 million. Plus 30 million. kr is sufficient – as we have been given the impression – for these offers to be maintained. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to comment on this during the examination of the matter. In the case of the Rikshospitalet, the Radium Hospital and other high-cost hospitals, they are in a difficult situation. The Rikshospitalet is a state hospital, directly under the Ministry of Health, but it turns out that there is no guarantee of a safe and secure treatment offer and a safe and necessary funding and economy. This is somewhat alarming in relation to the leadership that we have now provided for the future hospital structure and ownership. We also believe that when the budget line is as large as it is in this case with the Rikshospitalet, there is a basis for asking whether the overview and insight are good enough in the Rikshospitalet's own organs, and not least in relation to what the Ministry of Health believes is appropriate for the Rikshospitalet to operate safely and safely for the patient groups to be treated there. That is why the Central Party together with the Christian People's Party and SV have asked the Government to ‘make a full review of the operation at the Rikshospital and present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner’. There are no insinuations in it, but there are so many exceedances, and we know that the Rikshospital has had so many problems with the construction, moving and running of the new hospital, that we believe it is reassuring and correct that we get presented with such a case. It is only regrettable that there will not be a majority in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1006	I don't think it's a very neat way to deal with this matter, that only in the social committee on the matter of supplementary appropriations for the Rikshospitalet, 230 million is proposed. And then they're going to get $30 million. kr is the most responsible. And then we're left with 10 million. kr. You kind of get a bad feeling that if the crash session had been one more week, all the money would have been in place. I don't think it's possible to deal with state hospitals like that. Now we're going to get many of them, and then I think it's reasonable to act a little bit cleaner than that. I am a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee and have also been involved in dealing with the issue of exceedances in the construction of the Rikshospitale. The very clear conclusion we came to after going through that matter was that we built a national hospital that had to be different from a national hospital when it was done than what we planned, because medical development is going on so fast, and because the needs are different over a ten-year period. The great art of later expansions in the health sector will be how to manage to create a project that is such that, without having a suction pipe directly into the state treasury, you can take over the innovations that are taking place in this field while the construction process is in progress. It is no wonder that there are exceedances at the Rikshospitale in relation to the type of relocation that have occurred after the establishment of a new rickshospital, but it is alarming when the exceedances are in the order of 26-27 pst. in relation to the budgetary decision taken by the Stortinget for 2001. That must be because you have too poor an overview, partly at the Rikshospitale itself, but perhaps also in the Ministry of Health. That is why the proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV is important – there is a need for a review of the operation at the Rikshospital, so that we can get through what is a transitional phase as soon as possible and over to what is a more permanent operating phase. Many of the tasks that the Rikshospital itself proposes to tighten up, for example: cut at Berg farm, which ensures the follow-up of severely disabled children, but also other types of cut in serious areas, are tasks that cannot be performed by other hospitals without relocating national functions. From the management of the Rikshospital, it is argued that these areas have been selected because hospitals are not fully financed. In the opinion of the Swedish authorities, it means that this case shows what is the weakness of the input-driven financing of hospital services. Here it is not the severity of the individual suffering that determines the order of priority, here it is simply what price tag the state has put on it. This may lead to the situation that young people and cancer who have very important medical reasons for being a priority will not be the case because the funding system is the same as it is. This is a matter that SV is working on, and we come back in other contexts to find a way that this can be better solved. Then I want to mention a special group that is not a large selection, but that is in a serious situation. These are the transsexuals, who have not yet received the offer that has been requested several times. Two ministers of health in a row are busy, and the management of the Rikshospitalet has also said that this offer should be on the go. There are some individuals who have been suggested for surgery and who have been on long-term hormonal courses. I don't know if we really have the imagination to see what kind of situation they're in. This is a small group, but a group that also deserves an offer from Health-Norway. We in SV know that things can be done more rationally – and that will probably be so in many hospitals – for example. in the case of procurement procedures, etc. We do not think this is an argument against extending the entire amount that is missing in this round, but we want you to go through all the aspects of the operation of such a large hospital as the Rikshospitalet is. That is why SV is involved in both minority proposals, both on the review of the operation of the Rikshospital, and also on the draft appropriations, where we are with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1021	The current case needs to be considered in the light of developments in the Rikshospital over the last few years, with the development, relocation and introduction of a new and complex hospital facility. I'm not going to go into the problems this has been associated with. But I would like to stress that throughout this process, the Rikshospitalet's organisation has tried to avoid technical and economic problems going beyond the scope and quality of patient treatment, education and research. This has been a great success. For example, towards the end of the year of entry in 2000: patient treatment already at the level of pre-entry. However, it has not been possible to avoid that this priority, which I believe has been right, has had consequences for the operating economy. Uncertainty about the relocation and the numerous deferrals have made it particularly difficult to plan and budget the operation. And it has delayed the implementation of systematic measures to improve the hospital’s operational efficiency. This is the background to the fact that the Rikshospital for 2000 had a budget that was based partly on the operating assumptions of the old plant and partly on uncertain assumptions as to when and in what way the new one would be operating, rather than in normal operation. As explained in the proposition, the deficit in 2000 amounted to a total of 203 million. kr. Da St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 was promoted, and it was my opinion that there was not a good enough overview of the Rikshospitalet economy, and therefore not a satisfactory basis for establishing a sustainable budget for 2001. The government’s proposal to return to the final budget of the Rikshospitale in 2001 was supported by the size of the budget, after a better clarification of the economic situation. In the autumn of 2000, the Rikshospitalet outlined an additional demand of 350 million. in 2001 in relation to the level for 2000. This has subsequently been slightly downgraded on the basis of an efficiency requirement of 3 pst. The additional need finally presented by the Rikshospitalet in April of this year was thus reduced to 270 million. kr. There is no doubt that at the new Rikshospital there is an efficiency potential beyond this. It is also important that systematic efforts are being undertaken to exploit this potential, thus getting more and better services out of each inserted krone. The government of the National Hospital has agreed to this. Among other things on this background I left in St.prp. No 71, to which we are now dealing with the suspension, in my opinion it would be possible to implement further measures to reduce the Rikshospitalet’s additional demand to 230 million. kr. I was aware that one could not exclude that this would go beyond the patient offer. However, the Rikshospital itself had to clarify what such consequences would be involved. This clarification showed that such a reduction would have a very negative impact on vulnerable patient groups. In order to avoid that kind of impact, it would be beneficial to implement the efficiency measures over a slightly longer period of time. I am therefore pleased that, in the context of the review of the revised national budget, it has been proposed that the allocation for the current year be increased by another 30 million. kr. I will draw up instructions for the Rikshospital after a decision has been taken on this matter and on the revised national budget, thus establishing the final framework for 2001. I would then like to stress that the effectiveness measures implemented by the hospital must not imply the type of negative consequences for the patients described earlier. I would particularly like to stress the consideration of particularly vulnerable patient groups, such as: deaf-born child. I would also say, since it's mentioned here, that I have reason to believe that it should not go beyond the treatment that is now established for the transsexuals. In this context, it is also necessary to assess whether measures of efficiency have a better effect if they are implemented over a longer period of time than initially foreseen. It has been claimed from both the Rikshospital itself and from other teams that the hospital is coming badly out of the financial instruments established. As long as the DRG system provides the basis for input-driven funding, such problems could arise, for example: if a hospital has patients within the individual DRG who are systematically more resource-intensive to treat than the average. There is no unique economic material to support this. However, I have launched a review of the financial instruments to assess simplifications and improvements and, if necessary, will provide a basis for correcting such bias as is suggested here, both for the Rikshospitalet and the other regional hospitals. I have also noticed that a minority in the vote notes that the Rikshospitalet's stated budget needs represent an increase of a total of 26.6 p.m. in conjunction with the 2001 budget decision of the Grand Duchy. I think this is somewhat misleading. Firstly, as mentioned, the 2001 budget decision of the Grand Duchy was not based on a real budget proposal for the Rikshospitalet, but on a continuation of the budget level from 2000, with the clear understanding that a later one would come back to the Grand Duchy with a revised proposal. Secondly, it must be emphasised that the Rikshospitale operates net budgeting and that the 26.6 pst. is calculated from this. Compared to the operating costs of the Rikshospitalet, the increase is about 10 p.p., and thus in relation to a level set for a previous financial year. In itself and in the light of the hospital's special situation, this is not a spectacular increase. Having said that, I would also like to stress that there are several aspects of today's state hospital management system that need to be improved. Therefore, it is also an important aspect of the hospital reform that we ignore the current organisation of hospitals as part of the administration. I agree with the representative that today's organisational model is not a good advertisement either for government or for the sake of county administration. And that's why I think it's so important that the Rikshospital and the other hospitals are taken out of the administration, separated as 100 pst. State-owned enterprises. This will provide a better basis for financial management than the current model. With a business model in mind, there will also be a better basis for carrying out the thorough review of the operation and economy of the Rikshospital as requested by that minority and to which I also agree should be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1049	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1052	It was an interesting and thorough contribution made by the Council of State, and he reminded us of something that perhaps more than I had forgotten, that the budget decision from this fall was based on the fact that one was just going to come back to Stortinget. There is good coherence in that part of the Council of State proposal, and therefore he has also agreed to it. But what I don't fully understand is what the Council of State said at the end of his speech, that he would now design an instruction to the hospital to get them to keep the budget that the majority probably adopts on Friday, which is 10 million. kr less than the hospital's board of directors and management deems necessary in order not to affect patient categories. He wants to design an instruction that he said should not imply the kind of negative consequences for patients, which the board has pointed out so far is necessary. Then I have to ask the Council of State: if he believes that the list of necessary savings that the board of directors saw was forced to publish to the hospital staff, he will not be used, what should the hospital do to save 10 million. Is it a six-month's crunch? Very well-known are there no patient groups treated by the Rikshospital, for which there will be no negative consequences if the budget is cut. And as far as I understood the Council of State, he was aware that reductions in the budget, as the majority will adopt, could have the consequences of going beyond patient treatment. So then I have to ask: will he give an instruction on which patients are going to suffer, or will he see to it that the hospital receives the budget that is needed to ensure that the patient's treatment is not affected? And I hope that's the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1063	It is true, as was pointed out, that I want to draw up an instruction based on the decisions taken by Stortinget, and that in that instruction I will ask that the Rikshospital does not implement savings measures that have the kind of negative effects on the patient treatment that seemed to be the case if a savings of 40 million had been made. kr, as originally proposed in the proposal. Firstly, I believe that there is a significant difference between saving 40 million. kr in relation to a 10 million savings. kr. I also believe, in the light of the discussions that have taken place, that it should be possible to implement the type of effectiveness measures that need to be implemented without creating the kind of negative consequences for patient treatment. Insofar as it is not my task to point out which savings or efficiency measures it should be, I would like, among other things. point out that there are also opportunities for the Rikshospital to carry out a higher proportion of patient treatment in cooperation with hospitals abroad, and without, as I said, having to have negative consequences for patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1072	I got basically an answer to what I was going to ask about at the end of the Council of State's response. But let me first say that I think it's impressive to have recorded how the Rikshospitalet so quickly got on with normal treatment, based on all the problems that lay ahead of them, and that they had to solve in a reasonably fast time. I should have liked to see which other hospital had solved this in a better way. I think I could have said that from this pulpit. I was actually going to ask the same question to the Council of State that I put to some other parties in the majority here: which patients are going to suffer because of the 10 million. missing kr? I think the Rikshospitalet first went through a 3pst. reduction over the whole area, has been quite careful about what reductions they have proposed based on their own situation. Now I understand – and I accept that – that where patients at the Rikshospital are now being briefed, these patients will be sent to treatment abroad. This may particularly apply to patients who require bone marrow transplantation. I have understood that it is already well under way to implement it. And if just the patients don't get hurt, this reduction of 10 million can be done. be defended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1084	It is true, as the representative of Alvheim here says, that there is a potential for redeployment and thus also a saving in relation to the original identified additional needs of the Rikshospital, by drawing on the opportunities offered by cooperation with hospitals abroad and performing patient treatment there. It may apply to the patient groups referred to by the representative Alvheim. There is also some treatment with precious implants that can be carried out in such cooperation with the rest of the world. I would also like to remind you that the administration and management of the Rikshospital itself believes that this is a significant potential for efficiency in the new Rikshospital. The issue has been linked to the speed with which this could be done, and that it would be too quick to implement as much efficiency as in the original proposal, in the current year, without at least having unacceptable consequences for patient treatment. In addition, I will also praise the way in which the management of the Rikshospital has carried out the complicated relocation and start-up process at the Rikshospital, without going beyond patient treatment, education and research to a greater extent than has been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1093	Governments have talked on several occasions about the existence of a greater efficiency potential at the Rikshospital than the 3 pst. which is imposed. That is quite right, but this must not go beyond patient treatment. And I don't think it's any efficiency potential at the Rikshospitale to show that you're going to use foreign treatment. It's not taking advantage of the effect you have at the Rikshospitale. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Health about the foreign treatment of the groups he mentioned here, which means the dismissal of professional personnel and the deterioration of the professional environments at the Rikshospitalet. It's in case of a consequence I'm a little preoccupied with. I am pleased that the Minister of Health now – as we have also received some signals about earlier – has said that 30 million. kr should be sufficient to ensure that the offers which are at risk of falling off will be kept and that they will not harm patients. And I want to ask the Minister of Health if he can now give a guarantee here that there will be no such consequences, based on the list of the Rikshospital, that there will be unacceptable situations for these patient groups, who it might be. I'm not happy to hear that e.g. bone marrow transplantation shall be carried out abroad. Then this instruction for the hospital in this transition phase, or as a permanent matter, is what it wants, but you have to avoid the consequences that were listed in the savings plan for the Rikshospitale. I have also noticed with interest that the Minister of Health believes the minority proposal is okay and should be complied with. And then I also hope that the Workers' Party will be recommended to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1102	It is difficult to give guarantees in matters like this, as the representative Lutvold asks. But I have reason to believe that it will be possible to avoid the kind of negative effects on patient treatment that we are all concerned with avoiding at the Rikshospital. On the issue of whether this will affect the activities of the Rikshospital in the form of redundancies or the reduction of professional competence, I also believe that it should be possible to avoid it. I don't see any treatment for patients abroad as an expression of something that is necessarily unfortunate in such a context. Norwegian hospitals, including the Rikshospitalet, may conclude cooperation agreements with excellent hospitals abroad. They may have a transfer of competence in such a context. They may also have staff members involved in foreign hospitals, and may actually contribute to the transfer of useful competence from abroad to their own hospital through such cooperation agreements. So I don't think of it as unlucky in any way. It can help to strengthen both the Rikshospitalet and the hospital settings in Norway in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1109	I fully agree with the Minister of Health that both at the Rikshospitalet and certainly most other hospitals are significant potential for efficiency improvement, but not least at the Rikshospitalet now that they have come up in the new building. In fact, one of the foundations — if not the main basis — was when the first proposition of a new rickshospital in Gaustad came, that by collecting four, it was well, the then hospital up there under one roof, and in a modern, more appropriate building, one could draw out considerable efficiency potential. I totally agree with that, and I don't think there's anyone in doubt. But it is also important, as the Minister of Health pointed out, that to take this out you need some time. It's not done from day to day. And that's when I have to ask the Minister of Health if he doesn't agree that they're getting reduced income from what they now have, by 10 million. kr following the majority’s proposal. Because so much of the business is activity-based, it means reduced costs to a much greater extent than 10 million. kr. I assume that the Minister of Health can confirm that. It's not just 10 million. The idea is that you should save somewhere either by sending more patients abroad, as they already do, or in other areas. I have understood the management, the board, at the Rikshospitalet so that they believe that it is not possible for the current year to take on a cost cut when they get reduced income by 10 million. kr without prejudice to the treatment of patients. I would like to hear if it is such that the Minister of Health is prepared to accept that patient categories at the Rikshospital are reduced because the majority believe that Norway cannot bear that the Rikshospital gets 10 million. extra kr – that is what they have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1121	It may be difficult to address a detailed discussion of concrete cost savings or efficiency measures at the Rikshospitalet as it begins here. It is clear that if you look at the cost mass of an enterprise, for example: also as the Rikshospitalet, which is completely locked down, it is true that it is not possible to make a single savings without having adverse consequences for the level of activity. I do not believe that this is the case, and I do have reason to believe that it is not an opinion that the board and the management of the Rikshospital will claim. Within a cost-mass of DKK 2.6 billion, there will normally also be opportunities to make adjustments, although they may be painful, but other adjustments than those originally made when a reduction of SEK 40 million was made. kr, without having to have the same negative consequences for patient treatment. These are of the measures that will now be considered, and I again point out here that there is an unused potential for patient treatment abroad. It will have consequences for the offer to the patients at the Rikshospital, but in my opinion not necessarily an unacceptable change of offer for the patients. There are also other similar measures that might be implemented by such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1130	Those who make up the majority here today seem so surprised that this lack of 40 million funding. kr, which is the difference between the Government proposal in St.prp. No 71 and the needs of the Rikshospitalet, have gone beyond patient treatment! On 20 April the Government promoted this proposition, and it says: ‘It cannot be excluded that this would go beyond patient provision. The administration of the Rikshospitalet will thus have to manage the hospital within the budgetary framework adopted...» – Here you already show in the proposition that it will affect patients. How, then, can one be so surprised today, or was it when this letter came from the government of the Rikshospitalet? It's a known fact that you have to save such a significant amount, and it will have consequences. The Committee then presented the position to the rapporteur, Mr Alvheim, with a proposal of 40 million. Extra kroner. So all of a sudden it turned out to be 30 million. the revised national budget because the consequences were then seen after the Committee had submitted its opinion. My question to the Minister of Health is: Had you not checked with the Rikshospitalet in advance, before promoting St. prp. No 71, what kind of consequences could that have? And what new information has been given between April 20 and now, as the proposition states that you can't rule out that it will go beyond the patient's offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1146	The procedure described here by the representative Nesvik is quite adequate for the actual situation, and indeed quite descriptive of how such processes must be carried out. This has been a major and very extensive work, where over time the owner of the department and the management of the Rikshospitalet have assessed different types of adaptation measures at the Rikshospitalet. As I mentioned, this ended with a proposal from the Rikshospitalet management earlier this year, which concluded that there was an additional need for the current year of 270 million. kr. It is to the extent that a starting point for the work of the owner, and of any owner, will be the basis for establishing a final budget for administration and management. And so it is only after it was presented – and that ended up with a proposal of 230 million. $40 million. less than that proposed by management – that the next round of proposals for savings measures be put into practice. There was also no reason to do so in the past, except that it was made quite clear then, and I did not hide it in the proposition from which it was just referred, that this could have adverse consequences for patient treatment. But, as I said in my first post, what the consequences would be, I didn't have the basis to know. It's up to the Rikshospital itself to make suggestions about. That's what they did after the presentation of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1155	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1171	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party 10 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1180	The notification of emergency medical emergency services currently being dealt with by Stortinget is comprehensive and addresses a number of measures aimed at strengthening emergency medical preparedness in municipalities, ambulances and specialist health services. I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. It has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur. I would like to explain the majority's view and expect the minority to present its own specific points of view. The Communication contains a number of proposals which, individually, can help improve the situation, proposals to which a unanimous committee broadly agrees. There is a broad consensus on the overall objective: a high professional standard, a maximum equivalent offer to the entire population, predictable stages of the emergency chain, a more stable health workforce situation and an efficient use of resources. The organisation of the service must take into account the spread of housing in parts of the country and the long distance from specialised health services in many places. Many local hospitals have major problems in recruiting medical specialists and depend on using doctors in short-term vicariates. The Committee considers that this is unfortunate and that it can help to weaken emergency medical preparedness. Health professionals are key people, and it is important to organise services in a way that can be recruitment and stabilising. A review of the organisation of medical services, both in terms of finance and personnel, is necessary in order to make better use of resources. Time is often a critical factor, and it is important that the supply, organisation and professional quality of the individual stages of the acute medical chain are predictable, both for the population and for health professionals. It is estimated that the availability of so-called heart initiators may increase the risk of cardiac arrest by 40-60 pst, and the Right is pleased that the rest of the Committee has joined our proposal to ask the Government to launch a cardiovascular training and deployment programme during 2002. A majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, assume that the maximum number of emergency medical communication centres in each State shall be considered. A large number of today's centres do not provide sufficient quality of service. In addition, they are demanding and absorbing significant health personnel resources towards non-patient work. The Committee agrees that the possibility of direct contact by the public with healthcare professionals who can provide advice and provide assistance is very valuable. The Government is requested to clarify the future and content of the emergency medical service as soon as possible. The Committee considers that competence requirements are necessary to ensure the professional soundness of prehospital emergency medical services. In particular, the possible rationalisation of emergency facilities in hospitals will reinforce this need. The majority, all except SV, are in favour of establishing a centre of expertise for prehospital emergency medicine and linking it to the University of Oslo. The centre of competence shall have clear obligations to act as a network model through cooperation with the emergency medical environments in all health regions. The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to draw up a common regulation for prehospital medicine. It also underlines the need to further develop the relationship between the rescue and health services. Municipalities must make expectations of emergency medical competence in the case of medical care personnel and the Committee calls for regional cooperation in the field of continuing training in order to maintain and upgrade their competence. Despite increased efforts in this area, the lack of stability and recruitment to the general medical service is one of the main problems. In the framework of the permanent medical scheme, a number of measures are being taken in the hope of improving recruitment. In addition, incentives are needed to maintain and recruit nurses in the community health service. Nursing is an important resource in the municipal medical services and in the medical care centres. There are currently no formal requirements for the ambulance service, either in terms of crewing, competence or response time. The Committee considers that the ambulance cars should, as a general rule, be two-handed in order to comply with the requirement of professional safety. This requirement must be part of the planned common regulation for pre-hospital emergency medicine. This will result in additional human resources being used for security services, especially in the smallest municipalities, where there are few ambulance staff. The Committee considers that, in some cases, an exemption must be possible for one-man-operated ambulances where the activity is small and join the Government's proposal that professional qualifications be required at the level of a letter for at least one of the ambulance staff per year. Car. This requirement must also be included in the Prehospital Emergency Medicine Regulation. The right is satisfied with the unanimous decision to ask the Government to develop specific skills requirements for voluntary teams, such as: Red Cross and Norwegian People's Aid, who are engaged in emergency services at sporting and cultural events. A majority, with the exception of the Advance Party and SV, believes that there is a need to look at the Committee's proposals for response times. In particular, it is important to clarify which areas of the country have a specific need to improve the availability of ambulances and to give priority to strengthening the ambulance service in these areas. The majority therefore ask the Government to provide the Stortinget with an economic and timetable for strengthening the ambulance service based on the response times of the Emergency Committee. Air ambulances are an instrument for balancing the differences in availability of specialised emergency medical services due to geography and housing patterns. In the future, if there is to be a greater functional distribution between hospitals in terms of emergency preparedness, the dimensioning of both ambulance and air ambulance services needs to be assessed accordingly. The majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that there is a need for certain changes in the hospital structure in order to ensure the availability of health services to the population, to meet professional quality requirements and to ensure efficient use of resources. The Committee considers that there is no need to make any changes to the emergency medical emergency response in the hospital hospital centres. On the contrary, the total supply has to be increased. The majority, the Working Party and the Right, believe that there is a need to rationalise the surgical preparedness of the small hospitals, and where conditions allow, hospitals can distinguish between internal medical and surgical preparedness. The entire Committee considers that a certain level of medical care is necessary in all hospitals to deal with fractures and simple injuries and provide the necessary stabilisation before transport to another hospital. Health regions are encouraged to increase the functional distribution of hospitals, including in the case of planned interventions. A unanimous committee stresses that a good selection and well-organised maternity care defend the differentiation and decentralisation of maternity care. The right is pleased to have a unanimous agreement to make the Health Authority’s proposal for a classification of birth care levels applicable to the planning and organisation of maternity care, and to ask the Government to establish a national council to assist in the conversion process, quality assurance and evaluation of operations in the organisation of a decentralised and differentiated maternity care. This will provide better and safer services for pregnant and pregnant women, especially in the districts. The Committee also asks the Government to ensure that pregnant women are derived from midwifery to the maternity ward where the distances are long. A majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party, indicate that midwives have established private practices in many places, but due to a lack of reimbursement arrangements, women themselves have to pay for the pregnancy control. The majority agree with the Right’s proposal to ask the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in private practice as well as in public activities. A unanimous committee believes that there is a need for upgrading newborn care, both at the regional hospital and central hospital level, and has joined a proposal from the Right to ask the Government to present a case to the Stortinget with concrete measures to improve the situation in newborn care, by the spring of 2002. During the examination of this matter, the Committee has promoted a number of measures which, together with the Government’s proposals, will improve emergency medical preparedness. Now, implementation remains, and it's going to be a big challenge. However, together with public responsibility for hospitals, this will help to ensure adequate emergency medical preparedness at all levels of health care. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1233	I am pleased that the paper on emergency medical preparedness has received broad support in the committee. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend the rapporteur for a very good work on the notification, which deals with a number of measures aimed at strengthening emergency medical preparedness. The medical emergency response shall provide the population with as much equivalent as possible. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to accept that the assumptions are different and that services must therefore have different design in different parts of the country. In many places, the distances to hospitals are long. It is therefore important to compensate for this by making professional demands on the ambulance and air ambulance services. An overall committee has pointed out that so-called heart initiators need to be made available to a much greater extent, as these may increase the chances of surviving a cardiac arrest of 40-50 pst. The majority of the committee has assumed that there should be a maximum AMK centre in each state. The exact number should not be taken into account until the investigation on a single emergency number has been completed and the regional health establishments are established. The Committee considers that telemedicine methods need to be further developed and used to a greater extent, including in the field of emergency medicine. Norway has a well-functioning rescue service, built on positive cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring the immediate needs of the population in primary health care throughout the day. There has been a necessary conversion from municipal to inter-municipal medical centres. The conversion has provided many positive experiences and reduced reimbursement costs for the Rikstrøgdeverket. The Committee asks the Government to review the economic impact after the conversion, so that municipalities can cover their additional costs and benefit from economic rationalisation gains. The ambulance service shall be a specialised health service. As a general rule, ambulances shall be two-man officers. The Committee agrees with the proposal that at least one of the ambulance staff on each car should be required to demonstrate professional competence at the level of a letter. There are no state-determined requirements for the response time from the AMK centre to contact until the car is reached until the patient. Response times vary considerably from place to place. The Committee agrees that the financial and scarceness of qualified ambulance staff will limit the scope for immediate implementation of the Committee's response time proposals. I would like to make it clear that it is a prerequisite for immediate assistance. Nor can we accept too long response times with the serious consequences that can have for patients. Major changes in hospital structures have occurred over the last 10–15 years, due to, for example, the development of medical specialities, new medical technologies and better communication. In addition, the lack of health professionals and the few immediate help patients in local hospitals have provided poor use of expensive watch systems. The Committee considers that certain changes to the hospital structure are necessary in order to meet professional quality requirements and to ensure efficient use of resources. The Committee’s representatives from the Working Party and the Right have noted that surgical preparedness in hospitals is resource-intensive. In some small hospitals, a small number of emergency procedures are carried out in the evening and at night, so that the extensive surgical response is rarely used. The government has called on regional health committees to review the current hospital structure with a view to improving the working and functional distribution of hospitals. I would like to stress that the majority's observations on surgical preparedness are not an order or an invitation to lay down small hospitals. But as another committee majority points out, there is evidence of a positive link between volume and quality for certain procedures. However, this alone shall not be decisive for the functions to be performed by a hospital. However, systematic cooperation between hospitals is essential for small hospitals to be viable. The Committee has had a comprehensive review of the pediatric pediatrics. Our case rapporteur, who is a midwife of profession, has done a great deal of work in the Committee to draw up guidelines for the best possible maternity care in our country. The overall objective of maternity care is to maintain a good and sound standard. In the future, a decentralised food supply will also be provided in Norway. A good selection and well-organised maternity care defend the differentiation and decentralisation of maternity care. As indicated in the submission, the Committee proposes that the Government should make the level-division of the State Health Authority applicable to the planning and organisation of maternity care. I would like to underline to a committee that the number of births in women's clinics, maternity wards and maternity wards must not be absolute. The Storting has previously stated that birthers by road over an hour should have qualified escorts to the place of birth. The Committee therefore asks the Government to ensure that women with a long path to the maternity ward are provided with a proper follow-up service. Law on the health care of municipalities also states that there should be midwife service in each municipality. The Committee calls on the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in both private and public activities. Such a reimbursement scheme is a reasonable requirement for women who opt for a private provision of care in pregnancy, often in the absence of a public offer. If the pregnancy control had been carried out by a private doctor, the costs would be eligible for social security disbursement. Such discrimination should not be maintained. Finally, let me mention that reorganization of maternity care is a demanding professional, organisational and legal process. It cannot be expected that local forces around smaller food departments and feeding rooms will cope with such reorganisation alone. An overall committee therefore considers it necessary to establish a national council to assist in the conversion processes and in the follow-up to operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1273	Emergency medical preparedness is important. Minutes, even seconds, can make a decisive difference between sickness and health, even between life and death. The notification of emergency medical preparedness and the background investigations on which it is based largely provide a very good basis for addressing this important field. The various actors in the field of emergency medicine are generally referred to as the ‘acute medical chain’. A chain is, as you know, no stronger than the weakest joint. I think the rest of the chain concept is very useful in the acute medical context. The different institutions and actors have different roles that relate to each other, and a good result is precisely linked to the actions. Therefore, communication becomes a key concept of emergency medical preparedness. Safe communication is necessary precisely because emergency medicine is such a chain of actors and measures. It is therefore important, as the Communication points out, to increase the population’s knowledge of first aid and, as the Committee points out, to launch a training and deployment programme for ‘heart starters’. Emergency services and AMK centres and the other parts of the emergency medical service are also important, and the Christian People's Party believes that each county can best assess the need for one or more AMK centres in the county. We also want to warn against the use of a single emergency number, which may be blocked in a crisis situation. It is important and positive that we are constantly working with a centre of expertise for prehospital emergency medicine linked up to the University of Oslo and a project outline for a national centre of medical medicine related to the Department of General Medicine at the University of Bergen and the National Centre for Health Communication Preparedness, KoKom. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee supports these projects. Communication is also an important factor in the medical service provision for maritime transport, and I am pleased that the Committee asks the Government to go further with the plans of a maritime medicine centre. In all of these areas, we have good competence in Norway today, on which it is natural to build further, and on which it is a pleasure to have a sound professional and political uprising. The ambulance service is characterised as the weakest part of the emergency chain. Of course, this is not because our ambulance crews are doing a bad job, but it is related to the formidable task of being responsible for first-line service and transportation to hospitals in a country with a geography like Norway. In the communication, four problems related to the ambulance service are highlighted in particular: lack of requirements for the operation of ambulance cars lack of competence requirements for ambulance staff unclear response time requirements lack of formalisation of cooperation with municipal medical services In the case of the first two items, operational and competence requirements are clearly necessary. However, we need to remember that there are, beyond the country, ambulance staff with little formal skills, but with great real competence. This applies not least to staff associated with, for example, the Red Cross, where participation in other activities also increases the real competence for the actual driving of the ambulance. For those in need of an ambulance, the actual and non-formal competence of the personnel is the counter. It should be unnecessary to add that there should be no contradiction here, and that of course this is not an argument against high professional standards and requirements of competence. As regards the response time, it has been claimed that the requirements of the Emergency Committee at such times would be difficult to comply with in large parts of the country. In the view of the Christian People's Party, these conditions need to be further investigated. The question has, among other things: important ethical aspects in a situation where proximity to ambulances can be crucial for life or death. The ambulance service is also an important prerequisite for cooperation agreements on municipal medical services. The Christian People's Party, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, is of the opinion that an overall assessment of emergency medical preparedness should be made, especially for pig-grown areas with long distances and travel times. These batches also point to the fact that the county ambulance plans should not lead to any deterioration in the ambulance service, since the service in advance as mentioned above is the weakest part of the emergency medical chain. The significance of the ambulance service for the possibility of medical care cooperation is known to me from my own municipality, where it has been notified by the neighbouring municipality that if Samnanger loses her ambulance, the prerequisite is no longer to maintain medical cooperation with Fusa. Perhaps the most controversial part of the so-called Emergency Response Committee is about emergency preparedness in hospitals. I am pleased that a joint committee believes that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's proposal for a hospital structure can appear to be less flexible and that it is not appropriate to replace today's structure with that of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We come to the recurring discussion of the relationship between proximity and quality in the hospital service. Too many – but not all – emergency procedures are known to be related to the volume and quality of treatment. This speaks to some extent for the centralization of these functions. On the other hand, the time factor is known to be significant in relation to many acute conditions, so at least there's a balance here. In any case, the notification does not provide a basis for — whether professional or economic — greater centralisation of emergency preparedness in local hospitals. With the election of the rapporteur of the case, the Committee arranged for a thorough review of maternity care and neonatal medicine. This has been ‘born’ – if I have to use that term – four proposals for decisions in this area, against three in the other areas of emergency medicine. It is not surprising that the rapporteur is satisfied, but it also has other reason to be with the rapporteur, with the communication and with the outcome of the Committee's proceedings. The Christian People's Party supports all the proposals in the Committee's position and recommends it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1316	The President must note that it is not every day that you get such commendation from the Parliament's pulpit, and recommends that the President-in-Office take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1319	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1326	I will continue to say something about the case rapporteur. I'll say it that way that it might be an advantage to have professionals in the social committee. St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, the so-called emergency message, has been on the social committee for a very long time, and this is because the government launched plans for the state acquisition of the specialist healthcare service in the summer of 2000. As I see it, it would have been natural that St.meld. No 43 had been dealt with before the proposal on state hospital operations was made. However, when this was not done, and the social committee decided to deal with the emergency communication in parallel with the state hospital reform, it is primarily due to the fact that the problem mentioned in the emergency communication was not substantially within Ot.prp. No 66 on state hospitalization. In view of the practical organisation of state hospital operations from January next year, I think it will be a great help and an advantage for the ministry to have dealt with the emergency message, where there will be considerable leadership in how the social committee looks at the future specialist health service in the broadest sense, and where the notification refers and takes the position to the entire treatment chain including the interaction with the primary health service. St.meld. No 43 are largely based on and account is taken of the two public investigations carried out in 1997–1998, the so-called Air Ambulance Committee’s investigation in NOU 1998:8 and the Emergency Committee’s investigation in NOU 1998:9. In general, the main conclusion in both of these studies is that the medical emergency response must be equivalent for the whole population and of optimum quality. Large parts of our country have a scattered long-range settlement, and this must be taken into account in the current and future emergency response. In particular, it is important that a person maintains a proper emergency response in a significant number of local hospitals. In relation to many serious disorders, such as cardiovascular and cerebral haemorrhage, medical development has demonstrated that it is particularly important for these two patient groups to institute treatment as soon as possible. In other words, prehospital treatment can be crucial both in relation to death and in relation to the patient’s future prognosis. Such prehospital medicine requires that primary health care personnel and primary health care personnel be professionally updated and better schooled to initiate treatment as soon as possible in the first meeting with the patient. It is also important in this context to ensure that the AMK centres are staffed with top professionals. This is far more important than the number of AMK centres in the country, which, at my discretion, should be significantly limited. It is, in my opinion, wasted with professional resources to maintain the large number of AMK centres you currently have. Far more important than the number of centres, the response time from notification to help is available. Together with the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party has a note in the setting where we fully accept the response time proposed in the Committee's investigation. I regret that the majority of the committee could not join in the proposal of these two parties. In NOU 1998:9, the so-called Acute Committee's investigation, claims are made in relation to the non-documented local hospitals – views that the Progress Party and I do not share. It is presented, among other things: undocumented claims that local hospital emergency services have major problems with the recruitment of professional staff. Furthermore, it is claimed that local emergency hospital is very expensive to operate, and it is finally claimed that the quality of treatment in local hospitals is lower than in major central hospitals. It is true that local hospitals have sometimes had problems recruiting special general surgeons, as the larger central hospitals have also had. At the moment, I have been informed that the recruitment within surgery is now reasonably good for most of our emergency hospital. The same can also be said with regard to the recruitment of intruders. The second claim that the quality of treatment in a local hospital is worse than in a central hospital is not at all documented, rather on the contrary. Even the Haga committee's investigation, which went deeper into this problem, could not demonstrate or demonstrate that the difference between the quality of treatment in large and smaller hospitals was not detectable. Further evidence of this can be found in a 1999 report from Ernst & Young, which was carried out on behalf of the Municipal Council of the Central Association of Municipalities. The reasons given by Ernst & Young for the results obtained were among others: that in local hospitals there were only specialists treating patients in the emergency phase, while one in the larger hospitals had doctors in training, and that very many treatments were carried out by assistant doctors. This is really quite easy to understand, especially for those of us who have worked in Norwegian hospitals and seen how this actually works in practice. The main emphasis of patient treatment in both central and regional hospitals is local hospital functions. In terms of effectiveness and patient treatment in local hospitals, a 1998 Samdata report shows that local hospitals had a total of 19 pst. above the central hospitals and the entire 50 pst. over the regional hospitals. The claim in the Haga Committee that emergency preparedness in a number of local hospitals is extra expensive may also be rejected as an undocumented claim. The local hospitals use specialists with their home guards in their emergency services, with a pay for home guards in the ratio of 1:5, i.e. a much more reasonable medical service than in, for example, central hospitals and regional hospitals. In the case of net operating costs per person. treated patients or per index stays, Samdata shows that the net costs of local hospitals are approximately. NOK 3000 lower per year. treatment compared to that in central hospitals, and the difference is much higher in relation to regional hospitals. The future local hospital models recommended in the Haga Committee's position are, as I see it, either professionally or economically properly assessed. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the vast majority of well-functioning local hospitals should be maintained as triple hospitals with emergency preparedness for surgery and internal medicine. The surgical equipment may be covered by general surgeons, orthopaedic surgeons or soft surgeons. In particular, this local hospital in our districts, and otherwise where the distances are large hospitals between them. In my opinion, there is nothing to spare by just having emergency preparedness in internal medicine and not surgery, because the same service functions as anaesthesia, x-ray and laboratory must be present even if you only have medical emergency preparedness. I refer here to the remark contained in the vote by the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, which describes this quite well. Finally, I would like to raise a matter that was discussed with the Minister for Health in a short period of time, namely the problems of late injuries in premature babies. A quite thorough study has been carried out by the superior Lindemann of Ullevål Hospital, where it is shown that every four prenatal children of school age have problems that are almost irreparable. I'm glad that the Health Minister in the Question Time answered positively that this was something that the Department would take on to get a follow-up from the time the premature child is discharged from the hospital and until the school-leaving age. It costs a lot to get a premature child to survive. We spend very little money following these children, and we have to do that in the future to save both the children's and the children's families for the problems that are discovered at school age. Finally, I address the proposal we have with the Socialist Left Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1360	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1363	Emergency medical preparedness is one of the most important of all of our medical offerings. A health policy that does not take this part seriously lacks the key to a sound and safe treatment provision. We need to be able to reach patients and the emergency situations out in a timely and prudent manner, so that stabilisation and treatment can take place immediately and without undue delay. In such cases, there is little help in the billions we have invested in large and central hospitals, if the patient cannot arrive on time and in such a situation and condition that life and health can be saved and repaired. This Communication is therefore of very great importance for a comprehensive and comprehensive treatment chain and overall medical preparedness. But it is equally important, and, not least, it is, to follow this up with resources – resources to, among other things. proper and professional staffing, ambulance equipment and emergency response at our local as well as central hospitals. When time counts as much as it does in such acute medical situations, we also have to admit and take the consequences of this by prioritizing resources to eliminate the time and distance factors to a proper level. In the case of emergency medical services, it must ensure direct contact between the population and health professionals, between health professionals outside and within hospitals and between hospitals in emergency situations. Such a warning and communication chain shall include: provide effective alerts, and information and guidance to the patient or alert until professional assistance reaches its destination. We in the Center Party are very concerned about a transition to possibly only one three-digit emergency number in Norway. In our opinion, this can lead to greater vulnerability and blocking of rapid contact with the auxiliaries. However, it is important that the various emergency services cooperate and have good and secure networking. In our opinion, it is important that users also have safe and continuous access to the local medical watchphone or medical centre, so that they can reach the ambulance and AMK central service system through such a telephone call. This will ensure a higher level of preparedness and availability than would be by using only one three-digit emergency number. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that this system needs to be secured through a well-developed mobile phone service and a well-developed radio connection that can be used by the emergency services. Furthermore, it is important, in our opinion, that communication and communication are coordinated and organised with the liaison service of voluntary organisations, among others. through common exercises. We also believe that the public should take a closer look at the need to support these organisations in terms of concrete investment needs for adequate communications equipment. Unfortunately, only the Christian People's Party and SV support this. On the other hand, it is gratifying that an overall committee points out that roadless settlements, whether on the mainland or on island communities, need to be secured to a greater extent than at present. This must be relevant for the further assessment of response time/outpression time, telecommunications coverage and the ambulance equipment necessary and relevant for such areas. This could mean an extension of the air ambulance activity. In areas with long distances and travel times, good coordination between medical and ambulance services is important in order to meet the requirements for response time within an acceptable and predictable framework. The State must assess the costs of this, and we in the Central Party believe that special financial support must be given to this preparedness in such areas. In order to ensure professionally sound ambulance staff in part of these areas, cooperation between the local health service and the ambulance/specialist service is necessary. In our opinion, guidelines should be drawn up for such cooperation in both professional and economic matters. In the long term, we believe that the professional objective for ambulance staff should be that one of the persons has the skills of anaesthetic nurse. In order to strengthen emergency medical preparedness also by personnel, this must also be taken into account in the education system. The centre party believes that there is a need to strengthen both the educational and research activities in the field of emergency medicine. That is why we support the establishment of a centre of expertise in emergency prehospital medicine, and we also want to draw attention to the work carried out in Bergen in the field of medical medicine related to the General Medicine Section and the National Centre for the Preparedness of Health Communication. It is important that measures of competence in emergency medicine are systematised and linked to professionally sound standards. The role and place of local hospitals in the acute medical picture is very important. We believe that local hospitals, especially where there are long distances to the central and regional hospital, must have a good and proper emergency medical response. Good and well-functioning local hospitals are a very important part of our overall treatment provision, and we believe that local hospitals must also have a high priority in the future hospital system, which is detailed in the setting. I have left to say a little about maternity care, but at least I can't do that now. I just want to give tribute to the rapporteur for what has been said about it, in relation to what has also been said by others in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1395	If the rapporteur gets more credit now, even outside this room, I'm afraid that the birth rate is growing dramatically, and that the capacity of the country's food departments is being blown up. But I would like to join in the praiseworthy words that have been said before. SV agrees with the main steps taken in St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency preparedness, and to which the Committee broadly subscribes. Two essential elements of the notification are that emergency medical preparedness is maintained at the medical wards of the country’s hospital, while some hospitals will coordinate the surgical emergency response so that there will be such preparedness in fewer hospitals than at present. In the case of emergency preparedness in surgery, the strongest responses to messages have been received, including: through the so-called counter-communication from a number of hospital doctors. SV would stress that in order to coordinate emergency preparedness, transport time from the patient’s home to the hospital or between hospitals must continue to provide a safe framework for a proper professional surgical service. This means that where the distance between hospitals is large, the arguments for maintaining an emergency surgery will be stronger than where local hospitals have a short distance to the next hospital unit. In the assessment of when and under which conditions emergency preparedness should and should be modified, the SV considers that critical attention should be given to the medical professional assessments carried out in each health region. The purpose of emergency medical preparedness must be to combine proximity, cost and quality in a sensible manner. For example, the most advanced food department with the absolute highest tip competence will be of very little use if the distance for very many of those who belong to this food department is so long that they feed in the ambulance on their way to glory. Due to the diversity of the country, services adapted to diversity in the SV’s view need to be developed instead of developing the health system as much as possible from region to region. In the case of the food departments and feeding rooms, the SV, precisely on the basis of the argument that proximity itself is a significant quality, would point out that the lower limit for the maintenance of the supply would have to be seen as indicative and not as rigid norms which would result in closure if the figures were not exceeded. Not least in very sparsely populated areas, the provision of a living room can be a good alternative. SV would point out that where the distance to the hospital is long, the need for a good accommodation service with two-man-operated and well-equipped ambulances and an air ambulance service that also has the necessary medical-professional preparedness. In the case of the air ambulance, SV considers that a distinction between this and the rescue service is unreasonable. We want to coordinate these services, and I refer in this context to the SV's comments in the setting and that we will come back to it on a later occasion, in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 44 on the rescue helicopter service. It is scheduled for the autumn, and we want it to be presented not only to the Justice Committee but also to the Social Committee. The other side of having a good emergency offer is that a number of waiting list patients can experience the following — and this happens in many of the country’s hospitals every day: they get hours, get written in and get stuck. When the clock turns two or three, they get the message: Sorry, we didn't have time for you now – you have to come back and get an hour later. This feels, I think, quite serious for some people who are not in daily contact with Health-Norway. Most of us are in the hospital when we are born and when we give birth ourselves, and perhaps once at the end of our lives. Otherwise, we have nothing to do with hospital services. Many go and grunt at perhaps a simple, small intervention. But I am of the firm belief that it must be possible to do this in a more effective way and with greater respect for the patients who today may experience being sent home with an unbiased case. We know that it's done in some local hospitals, where you specialise in taking parts of the waiting lists away. I believe in more of the kind of efficiencies of operational intervention. This is not acute suffering in the name. So it's also very easy to take a little too easy on some people to both get an idea of a public health service that's not very effective, where it's a lot of mess, where you can't do what you promise. So both the information for these patients should be much better, and we should put ourselves in a harness in order to be able to implement and phase out the waiting lists in some areas much more effectively than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1415	Today’s debate concludes a long-term discussion of issues related to the regulation, organisation and financing of emergency medical preparedness in Norway. The message was submitted almost a year ago. Before this work, there were investigations, among others. of two samples appointed in 1997. Thus, in the context of a long-term investigation and broad political treatment, the Government, following the final treatment by the Stortingen, is able to take action to strengthen emergency preparedness in the country. This will provide a basis for increasing public safety for the availability and rapid deployment of health services when accidents occur and there is a need for assistance. In this context, I would like to pay particular attention to strengthening the parts of the emergency response that first come into contact with those in need – the ambulance service with the personnel and equipment with which it will operate. During such a long period of treatment, social developments occur, for example: with regard to technology and organisation, which may be altered by major preconditions for preparedness. This needs to be captured and taken into account in the implementation process. Of particular relevance in this context, I would like to point out that the Vulnerability Committee has delivered its opinion, and that in the wake of several tragic accidents reports have been prepared that also deal with emergency preparedness. I also mention that during the year since this communication was launched, the Government has in a number of areas drawn up proposals for the renewal of the public sector. To me, of course, it is particularly close and pleasant to mention the state acquisition and reorganization of the specialist health service in this context. I am not in doubt that it will also make a positive contribution to the implementation of the various measures proposed in the notification and suspension, thus strengthening emergency preparedness in the country. Of the recommendations made in the setting, I will first mention the one concerning the implementation of a cardiologist training and dislocation program. This is a proposal that has not been made in the message itself or in any of the previous selection settings. To this extent, it can well be seen as evidence of medical technological developments, and not least of experience developments, which update new measures as time passes. It has been demonstrated that good availability of cardiac initiators can significantly increase the chances of survival of cardiac arrest, and I therefore agree with the Committee that a more systematic deployment of cardiac initiators should be facilitated. At the same time, it is important that increased availability is accompanied by the necessary training. I am prepared to start work on such a programme, and in this context I will also contribute to cooperation with local actors, non-governmental organisations and private enterprises. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Government to present to the Stortinget an economic and timetable for strengthening the ambulance service based on the Committee's proposals for response times. I will start working on this immediately. Finally, I would like to mention the measures and recommendations relating to maternity care and maternity control. This is a very important task, not only in the field of emergency medical preparedness, but in the field of health policy in the broadest sense. It is a high priority to ensure that all those who are going to give birth receive the guidance they need during pregnancy, and good help and support during and after birth. For one who himself came to the world in an upper room at home without the midwife coming forward in time, it is easy to agree with such a priority. Today, we must say that the Norwegian health system has a good standard in these respects. But everything can be better, and the setting takes on important proposals in this regard. I have noticed the connection to the message's level-setting for maternity care and that this is valid for further planning and organisation. In this context, I would also like to highlight the good results of the maternity wards and agree with the comments that underline the importance they may have in maternity care. Without going into the individual parts of the setting, I can assure you that the individual recommendations will be followed up, and that I will return to Stortinget with proposals for concrete actions in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1437	A safe and secure preparedness for acute illness or accident is one of the most important things our citizens see. Therefore, it is so important that preparedness is as equivalent as possible across the country. I am pleased that this has become so clear on the agenda through the big message we are now discussing. Large distances and a wide range of settlements require adaptation of the emergency response to local conditions. I myself live in a place in this country where we have not organized transport ready for acute illness or accident. Here we had a ferry standby that was funded by three parties: state, state and municipality. This preparedness was terminated after the government first cut the appropriations for this, and then the county also said no to its share. After this, only the municipality was left, and the municipality would not accept the expenses alone. As a result, the entire preparedness has ceased, and people have to reach little by no means on coincidences or on responsible ferrymen who set up – when they are present. The worst thing about this particular case is that the reason for cutting the scheme was that the scheme was too little use. A proper preparedness offer should be a public right, but the citizens have not yet had any means to back up their demands. I can say from my own experience that not to have a response offer clear when acute disease cases or accidents occur creates a great deal of uncertainty. In particular, older people feel insecure, and many people often choose to move when conditions are like this. So this is also about the possibility of settling in District Norway. That is why I am pleased that the communication draws up lines that should be able to prevent people from being treated in such a way in the future, with conditions that both my own and some other communities have so far had to live with. I am also pleased that a joint committee says that such conditions are very unsatisfactory, and believes that it is very important to ensure preparedness, so that everyone can have the security of medical care and access to ambulances in case of acute illness or accidents. Telemedicine is important for future emergency medicine. Telemedicine may provide access to expertise and patient information, irrespective of where patients and competences are located. It is also perceived as a professional safety that two doctors are involved, which is possible in a telemedical consultation. The National Telemedicine Centre in Tromsø was opened in 1993 and is a very successful measure to provide advice on technical solutions and research on new opportunities for telemedicine to provide services. I see it as important that funds are made available in the future, so that primary health services too can benefit fully from this amazing innovation. I have no doubt that this will be a good investment that will provide both better provision for the population and will mean cost reductions for the public. I am also pleased that the communication states that the medical service provision for maritime transport needs to be improved. It is important that seafarers can have the security of medical assistance when needed. Here, international obligations also require what offers we should offer. I am aware that the telemedicine centre in Tromsø is developing a telemedicine offer that can be used in the fishing fleet and in other shipping. I feel sure that telemedicine will also help to provide a much better medical service for shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1458	The quality of Norwegian emergency medicine is good, but there is still room for improvement. The requirement for emergency medical services must be high professional standards and equivalent offers for the whole population. So far, we have not been required to have a crew, competence or response time for the ambulance service. Now there is a requirement that ambulance cars should be primarily two-man officers and that at least one of them should have a letter of formal qualifications. The immediate obligation to provide assistance shall be respected. Response time must be acceptable in order to avoid serious consequences for the patient. The provision of food is also well taken care of in the message, and I too want to praise the case rapporteur, who, with his knowledge and insight in this subject, has handled this topic very well. I am pleased that a joint committee has underlined that the overall objective of maternity care must be to continue to offer a decentralised food supply in Norway and to maintain a good and sound standard. A good selection and well-organised maternity care defend the differentiation and decentralisation of maternity care. In recent years, several reports have shown that by allowing the same personnel to care for both maternity and maternity care, normal births can be separated from the more complicated. The loft project, described in the message, confirms this. The main food departments have much to gain from the same risk assessment and selection process that takes place in relation to the activities of the feeding centres. We who come from the districts are particularly concerned with air ambulance services. There have been earlier proposals for changes to the base structure, but the government's proposal is to maintain eleven helicopter bases and six aerodromes, as today. Any future base shall be adopted on the basis of the need for increased preparedness and in accordance with the principles of closeness to hospitals, equivalence, coverage and health economy. For those areas that have a very long distance from the hospital, it is reassuring to have a helicopter base with personnel who can quickly master an acute crisis. Preparedness in Brønnøysund and in Dombås will be decided upon at the present reading. The people in the North Gudbrand valley have been concerned that they could lose the helicopter base that they have invested so much in getting, both when collecting money and with hard work. And it's become a good offer that they're very pleased with, that's saved lives, and that gives security even if it's a long way to hospital. The base has the furniture on which the personnel live when they are on duty. Hospital doctors use their spare time, so highly qualified personnel are located at a long distance from hospitals and emergency services. It takes at least 35 minutes by helicopter from Lillehammer to Dombås. Many who have been exposed to serious accidents or diseases have been rescued because the base is where it is located. Within 4 to 20 minutes, personnel from the medical helicopter have been in place. It's been about life or death, or about being able to have a life that's still full. There have been many health gains in this. Once I was there on a visit, the alarm went, and there was a full call-out to one who had cut off his hand on a campaign. You world of efficiency! The doctor, the rescuer and the pilot fell off the farm, and within a few minutes they were out in the desert of the man, who then got quick help and rapid transportation to the hospital. The State of Oppland has also recommended continued placement at Dombås and justified this with health and district policy objectives. He has also pointed out that the expansion of national parks and landscape protection areas on Dovrefjell, in Rondane and in Reinheimen will attract more tourists to risky activities. A popular commitment to the decision taken here today has earned its profit: continued ambulance helicopters located at Dombås.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1479	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1482	As I advertised in my first post, I will come back to maternity care. I show you, among other things: that a Joint Committee has stated that the professional requirements of the State Health Authority for the care of the child should be subject to planning and organisation. Furthermore, a joint committee considers that a national maternity care council should be set up to assist in the transition process and with quality assurance and evaluation of the operation in the context of the organisation of decentralised and differentiated maternity care. This means that one with this setting opens up a decentralised maternity care with clear requirements for professional care. For my part, I would like to stress, and I think it's on behalf of the entire committee, that this does not set specific limits on the number of births in the case of maternity wards, maternity wards and women's clinics, but that we refer to professionalism in terms of staffing and cooperation. An overall committee also stresses that the overall objective of maternity care is to continue to be provided with a decentralised food supply in Norway and that the requirement for the number of births at the different types of birth services should not be absolute. With the reaction such as I believe it is important to stress that well-functioning offers already established today should not be modified even if the number of births may be lower than that recommended by the Food Services Code. The most important thing, especially for a maternity ward like the one you have. in Lärdal, with long travel time to the next hospital, the professional level, especially in relation to staffing, is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1511	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into 5 minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1518	The size has to deal with a Document No. 8-proposal for the establishment of new bed places in medical wards in Norwegian hospitals. In the light of the proposal, the proposers argue that the situation in most medical departments today is characterised by overcoating and corridor Asians. A unanimous committee is of the opinion that there is not a single grip, such as expanding with several beds, which can reduce the number of corridors. There is a need for a number of measures concerning the organisation and framework conditions of hospitals: flexibility between departments, improved financial instruments, availability of qualified personnel, good management and increased resources. The Committee has pointed out that overcoating is a common situation in the medical departments of Norwegian hospitals. This is related to an almost halved number of somatic beds over the past 30 years, while the number of older people in the population has increased. It will require increased treatment provision. Norway has a small medical bed capacity in relation to population size, and the Committee believes that, in any event, the future organisation of specialist healthcare needs to be aimed at increasing the capacity of the medical departments. It is a burden for patients to lie in the hospital corridors, and the extent of corridor Asians also poses an increased risk to, among others. maltreatment and accident and generally poor quality of treatment and care provision. There is also a significant burden on relatives and health professionals. With effect from 1 January 2002, the State will assume responsibility for the hospitals. The majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Right believe that such organisation of the specialist health service would provide better tools to address the problems of Corridor Asians through better use of available capacity and a more efficient distribution of work and functions between hospitals. A majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that hospitals need to show flexibility between departments in periods where there is over-coverage and pressure. Plans for the expansion of new hospitals and the reconstruction of existing hospitals must facilitate such flexibility. The same majority believe that adapted health care facilities in local health services can both reduce the number of hospitalisations and make patients pre-delivery ready. Finnmark is an example of the fact that a half-way service can relieve hospitals. Hospitals reduce the use of hospitals due to lower rates of accommodation and reduced bedtime, and both investigation and treatment are fully sound. A unanimous committee believes that increased use of hospitals and hospitals could relieve the hospital burden. A majority, all except the Advancement Party, believe that strengthening the community health service, increasing outpatient activity and more outpatient treatment could also help reduce the number of admissions and thus reduce the pressure. The same majority believe that the use of learning and mastering centres for chronically ill patients could also reduce the number of admissions. The same applies to joint emergency services for primary health care professionals and own observation posts in relation to emergency facilities in hospitals. Such schemes will have a positive impact on patients, and there will be a good use of resources. As mentioned above, there is a consensus that a number of measures are needed to improve the situation and address the problems of the corridor patients. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Party of Advances, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, propose that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1541	Unfortunately, it is correct, as it is claimed, that in many hospitals there are over-coatings and too often corridor Asians in many medical departments. These are not worthy relationships, either for patients or for staff. Although resource use is high in both money and personnel in Norway, and with particularly strong growth beyond the 1990s and up to the present time, there are significant shortcomings in the specialist health service. This requires significant organisational changes. It is the Workers' Party's view that there is no simple approach, such as: to increase the physical number of beds alone, which will solve the lacks we experience. Good organisation, good use of resources and good management are probably far more important. For this reason, the Stoltenberg government has promoted the proposal for state ownership of the specialist healthcare service and organisation in healthcare companies, which has recently been endorsed by the Stortinget. I think it's through such fundamental changes to the Norwegian health system that we get the improvements we so badly need. This also includes planned and systematic building improvements, new buildings and renewals. Also through this, bottlenecks can be removed. We have an increasingly older population, and more of the older ones, which requires increased capacity in hospitals in addition to the increased needs resulting from better diagnostic and treatment options for medical technological development. Increasingly improving the private economy gives people greater demand for health care. Genetic technology, gene therapy and stem cell research will certainly challenge the healthcare system's overall supply. All of this suggests that we need to develop our health care across a wide range. There is an increase in capacity, quality and efficiency in terms of good use of health professionals, equipment and buildings. Although it is affordable for the proposers to focus on Corridor Asians and overcoating, the solution is largely found in an improved health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1552	I will first be allowed to correct an error in the setting. On page 2 of the left column, it is mentioned as a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. However, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left shall not participate in the majority where it states that 'the majority propose that the document be annexed to the Protocol'. In that section and in the next section, only the Labour Party and the Right are the majority. Unfortunately, overcoating in medical departments is a normal situation in Norwegian hospitals. The proposal by the representatives Alvheim and Nesvik to increase capacity is therefore timely, and is supported by the Christian People's Party. When overcoating is almost a normal condition in a majority of hospitals despite a significant decrease in average bedtime, it indicates a real lack of capacity and not poor planning and organisation of hospitals. The freedom of action of medical departments is also further limited by the fact that the vast majority of interventions, in the range of 80 to 85 p.m., are immediate relief interventions and therefore cannot be planned. Overcoating is an unacceptable burden both for patients and for hospital staff. It also poses a significant safety risk, as it will most often lead to patients staying in beds in corridors to be used, inter alia. as escape routes. Anyone familiar with the conditions in Norwegian hospitals will realize that this is not only a dangerous situation, but also a demeaning situation for the patients concerned, as well as an increased risk, among other things. in the case of hospital infections which cause the patient unnecessary suffering and unnecessary expenses to the hospitals. It has been a wild and desirable development to reduce the number of hospitalisations in favour of outpatient treatment. However, when this has resulted in the number of somatic beds in Norwegian hospitals being reduced to about half over the last 30 years, we must realise that this development has gone too far. Not all conditions can be appropriately treated outpatiently, and the increasing proportion of older people in the population suggests that bed count should be increased rather than reduced. An overall committee and a different majority and minority point to the complexity of the overcoating issue and that different measures should be put in place to counter it. However, it is not so easy that the problem can be solved by, for example, increasing the proportion of day surgery. It is therefore a fact that the number of bed places in Norwegian somatic hospitals has been significantly reduced, halved, over the past 30 years, and that we now have significantly fewer such places than countries it is natural to compare with. So with the expected continued increase in the number of older people, we have to assume that the need for such beds will increase. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that there is sound reason to support the proposal to ask the Government to propose to increase the capacity of medical departments in Norwegian hospitals to meet the need in line with demographic developments in Norway, so that corridor Asians and overcoatings become unnecessary. I find it difficult to understand that the Labour Party and the Right are opposed to the proposal. It is naive to believe that the state takeover of the specialist health service and the other more or less marginal measures mentioned both by the case-rapporteur and by the representative Kristoffersen will solve this problem. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that a number of measures are necessary. But there's no reason not to do this grip. I refer to the minority proposal included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1572	Are Neess has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1575	Now we who went for state hospital operations must not become overconfident and believe that state hospital operations should solve all health problems. This problem is not solved by state acquisition. There was nothing about this in that proposition. The number of somatic hospitals is roughly halved from 1969 to 1999, and of course this has not happened without major consequences for patients and staff in our hospitals. As far as I know, there is no other Western country to which we can compare, which has so few somatic health care beds per. 100000 inhabitants, just like Norway. At the same time, lifetime in Norway has increased, and the proportion of elderly patients over 67 years of age in our hospitals, especially in medical departments, has increased significantly, particularly in the last ten years. This has also led to a continuous corridor coating of medical patients who are both unworthy, irresponsible and mean a risk factor both professionally-medically and not least fire safety. Corridor patients are also a heavy burden on health professionals, since the staff in the medical departments do not require any corridor Asians, but the crew is normalised according to the approved bed places. At times, overcoating in medical departments is 50 pst. As I see it, the interest in Stortinget, and especially in the Social Committee, has been rather small in correcting these conditions. The present proposal to ask the Government to establish 1 000 new beds has been in Stortinget for over one year, without being dealt with as a matter of fact. Only this says something about the interest in several beds in medical departments. It is far worse to record the observations of the majority, that the lack of somatic medical beds should be solved by increased day-to-day surgery. The same position seems to be taken by the Minister of Health on the basis of what he says in his letter to the Social Committee on this matter. I have stated on behalf of the Advance Party in the setting that believing that increased day surgery will reduce the need for medical beds and thus reduce the number of Corridor Asians, testifying to a lack of knowledge of the operating conditions of our somatic hospitals – a claim I still fully support. It is amazing that it is possible to argue that increased day surgery should be able to reduce the need for medical beds. I am familiar with the fact that the State Health Authority has, on many occasions in recent years, instructed county councils to reduce corridor patients. But that's not how far it's worked. In the light of current Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party give the Social Committee in Stortinget a good opportunity to address these unworthy circumstances. And I am both amazed and disappointed that the Right will not support the minority in the position, so that the county councils that have already designed plans for the construction of new medical posts could have started. I can promise Right and the other parties that in the upcoming election campaign this will be a matter for me, all over the country. We must no longer allow these unworthy conditions, which particularly affect elderly people who are in need of help and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1592	In very many of our hospitals, there is a problem with Corridor Asians, especially in the medical departments. This leads to an increased risk of mistreatment and accidents and generally poor quality of treatment and care provision. Fire and infectious diseases also increase when patients are placed in the corridors. There are several factors that may affect an increase in corticosteroids, but the most important is probably an increasing proportion of the elderly in the population, which in turn increases the pressure on our hospitals, not least in the medical departments. What I would like to point out is that the poor economy in many of our hospitals leads to closed departments and sick spots, and in turn it creates a lot of pressure on the institution – in the form of corridor patient problems. With regard to the fact that day surgery and increasing use of outpatient clinics should be able to dampen the pressure of the need for infirmity in general, I agree with and disagree with that. New medical technology can help reduce the length of sleep, but I don't think – like the committee leader, John I. Alvheim – that we can get away from the corridor patient problem by increasing the number of patients through day surgery and outpatient treatment. We need a larger number of hospital beds in Norway, which is also confirmed when we see that we have a small medical bed capacity in relation to population size, compared to, for example, the Nordic countries and also compared with the whole of Europe. From 1969 until today the number of somatic beds has been halved in this country. Today we have made 13,700 beds in our hospital. At the same time, there has been a strong increase in the number of older people over the age of 67, and this group is a large user of hospital beds. So it's said that learning and mastering centres for those who use hospital beds a lot, among other things. chronic sufferers will be able to reduce the burden on the health care system to a good extent. I guess that's right. But then there is a new cross of thought: the capacity and future of our training institutions and the provision of rehabilitation there. At least we have to make sure that because of the poor economy of our training institutions, we do not now have a significant reduction in the number of rehabilitation sites if we are to have this capacity to relieve the use of sick leave. Our hospitals have completed plans for the construction of new medical hospitals. We think this should do something. However, I don't think there are so many county councils that start construction today, with the ambiguities that are in relation to the state's takeover, and in relation to what kind of economic conditions lie there. In any case, like the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and SV, we believe that the Government should propose to increase the capacity of the medical departments in Norwegian hospitals to meet the need in line with the demographic developments we have in Norway, so that corridors and overlays become unnecessary. We don't think there's just a flexible use of bedposts that can solve this, nor anything else that I've been up to. I think that there are the number of beds that are too small, and it should be followed up with the establishment of several hospital beds in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1607	Also on the SV side, it is clear that the state acquisition of hospitals will not solve the problem of Corridor Asians. It is true that there has been a long underfunding of hospitals, and that there is mainly a financing problem and a funding method problem, which is just as great if it is the state that owns hospitals. It would have been fully possible to organise better use of treatment capacity in county hospitals than we do today. SV has made proposals to increase the appropriations so that it can be done. There has been no large connection in Stortinget to get it done. What I don't get any explanation for is how long the majority thinks you should really wait before this problem is solved. We have to assume that there will be a rather turbulent period in the future when hospitals will be taken over by the state. There are a number of unresolved problems here, and it is probably not to be expected that there will be the major changes in operations – at least not the first year. So you think this is going to solve in the long term. I am perhaps most surprised that the Right does not agree with the proposal today, especially because the Right – as far as I know – in the revised national budget has helped to add some more money to the hospitals already this year, because they see that hospitals are struggling and need more money to solve their problems. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Right isn't more positive about the proposal, but chooses to flag some kind of principal attitudes to state hospitals, instead of being concerned about the problem that's being pointed out, and that's been a very long problem. It might have been a little better context if all the parties behind the minority proposal today had agreed to add more funds to county hospitals in the revised national budget. It's not like that. The realization of such a proposal on the table today requires a little more money. You can't create more sick people without money. But as it looks, there's no majority for this. The majority will wait for the state to take over. SV fears that there will be a long time, and also that we will not see any improvement for the corridor patients at all. I think that's a shame. I think the situation we've had for a long time is unworthy – it's unworthy that we haven't been able to find a grip that could have solved this over all the years this has been a problem. So I'm pretty disappointed that the majority is not willing to at least look at the problems, see if it had been a proper grip. SV is convinced that there is a need for more medical beds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1634	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1641	Gender discrimination is contrary to fundamental human rights such as non-discrimination, the right to privacy and the right to health. This is the cross-political agreement. Gender impairment is something we want to end with, whether it's here in our own country or in other countries. Gender mutilation is a criminal offence in Norway. It has been since 1995, when a separate law was passed against female genital mutilation. In this way, the Norwegian authorities have separated from female genital mutilation. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister for Health wrote that the law is not well known, and that Norwegian health professionals are not trained to face the problem in advance or provide professional help to those who are sexually ill. The government has drawn up an action plan on gender equality, as requested by the Stortinget during the throne debate on 11 October 2000. The action plan was presented by the government of Stoltenberg on 20 December of that year. The points made by the Stortinget have been addressed in the Action Plan. Health surveys of children and young people are a statutory task that municipalities are obliged to offer. Health survey is a voluntary offer in line with other health services. There is a very good response to the provision at health centres and in the school health service. But some do not. Substantial work is being done on the part of the school health services and health centres to get parents and young people to avail themselves of these services. As early as possible, an attempt is made to establish a trust relationship with parents, with children and young people, and to provide them with an understanding of the benefits of the studies. We take all the distance from sexual mutilation and want to prevent it from happening. Therefore, it may be understandable that the proposer considers that compulsory examination may prevent this from taking place, but a requirement for such mandatory examination of girls from some environments can easily discriminate and may result in parents failing to attend health centres. Instead, efforts should be made to integrate this type of study into the targeted studies in health centre and school health services. It is important to get help for those who are circumcised. The State Health Inspectorate has published the Norwegian Health Care Professional Guide on female circumcision. This guide, as well as the Government's action plan on gender mutilation, contains expertise, objectives and measures on how to prevent such interventions. It focuses on the importance of close cooperation with migrant settings where cross-cutting is common, in order to contribute to a change in attitudes where such practices are not taken into account. I think this approach is the best way to prevent sexual mutilation. In recent times there has been a public debate that has been spearheaded by Kadra Noor of the Somali Women's Association. She revealed that the intersection of girls is both recommended and carried out in some settings in Norway when she cooperated with the media to reveal this. She's a brave woman, who took up the problem and revealed crime in her own environment. In Sweden, the EU wishes to be involved in the fight against customs, linked to development aid. The fight is not new, and it is necessary to learn from past experience in order not to do more harm than good. The majority believe that the objective of preventing sexual mutilation has been achieved through the Government's action plan against gender mutilation and the Norwegian Health Care Guide on female mutilation by the State Health Authority. Both contain comprehensive information on the prohibition and are distributed to all relevant agencies and posted on the Internet. One of the measures of the Government Action Plan is that the law is to be translated into the language in question. The guide shall include a comprehensive description of the regulatory framework as regards the relationship between professional secrecy, disclosure obligations and information rights in situations where health professionals fear the intention to cross or where this has been done. The majority have pointed out that the judgement of health professionals is central to this assessment. There are several legislative provisions and some should probably be simplified. Health professionals have a lot of responsibility. We trust them and their assessments. We also believe that the public debate on gender mutilation contributes to more information while at the same time vulnerable groups are not repudiated by discriminatory behaviour. The approach must be based on trust and extra effort in health stations and in the school health service. The majority propose that the document be annexed to the protocol, while the minority has a proposal that they will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1669	It was with amazement I read Document No. the 8th proposal by Carl I. Hagen, who asks ‘The government will come back to the Stortinget with proposals to impose criminal liability on the parents of the minor girls who are mutilated’. Gender impairment has been a criminal offence in Norway since 1995. The sentence is imprisonment up to three years. The penalty may be imposed up to six years in the case of major injuries and up to eight years in the case of damage resulting in permanent and serious changes in the female genital organ. Whoever participates is punished in the same way as the person who performs the act itself, it is stated in the law. Consent does not exempt from punishment, nor is it specified in the law. It is claimed that the law is little known. The examination of this private proposal has at least led to the fact that the Progress Party no longer sees the need to promote this proposal. Circumcision of women is an infringement of human rights, and the prohibition of all forms of female circumcision has long been on the agenda of, among others. UNICEF, and has gradually led to an increasing number of countries prohibiting it. Norway has acceded to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It says that one should abolish traditional practices that are harmful to children’s health. I am pleased that the Minister for Health has actively followed up the action plan on gender mutilation. It is of great importance that all families participate in health studies. It should continue to be a voluntary offer. Through dialogue and building trust, the Christian People's Party believes that we achieve better results than if we introduce mandatory health checks for children at risk. For health professionals, the meeting with new cultures can be a major challenge. A comprehensive guide addressing these issues is of great value. It is positive that it has been distributed to medical offices, health centres, maternity wards and asylum recipients and that it has been posted on the Internet. In this way, more skills are gained. The Christian People's Party, like the majority, believes that special competences should be built on gender equality in healthcare. Such a unit must provide guidance and training to relevant personnel so that girls and their families are provided with the necessary assistance in the ordinary health and social services. If a person is to be able to prevent sexual mutilation, it is important that active information is provided by a driver. One of the measures should be the translation into the relevant language of the law demonstrating that it is punishable in Norway. In the end, I want to pay tribute to people with a migrant background who have themselves addressed the problem and misplaced it on the agenda. It serves the cause – and saves small and large women from great and unnecessary suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1690	In connection with Document No: 8:93 for 2000-2001 the representative Carl I. Hagen of the Progress Party promotes two proposals which can contribute to the fight against female genital mutilation. One proposal is to introduce regular and mandatory health studies of girls from the cultural environment that practises sexual mutilation of this group. This could be a very important contribution to the fight to detect and combat the use of these monstrous methods in individual environments. The undersigned is of the opinion that this practice is to be described as severely repressive; it is, in the opinion of the undersigned, a regular torture. The practice of this type of sexual mutilation must be addressed by strong means. However, in order to address the issue in the most effective way possible, a person must be able to use tools to identify cases. Because it is not possible to get away from the fact that the groups that practice this are often very restrained and closed. The introduction of mandatory health checks for children in risk groups can be a useful contribution in this context. It is also important that it is possible to prosecute the parents of the minor girls who are exposed to these abuses, unless one or both parents have reported the relationship. The Progress Party has noted that the Minister of Health, by letter of 11 May 2001 to the Social Committee, indicates that sexual harassment has been a criminal offence in Norway for a long time. Similarly, the representative Woie Duesund and the representative Gravdahl have pointed out here. Then it's worth noting the following, and I'll quote from the Health Minister's letter: ‘However, the law is not known and Norwegian staff are not trained to face the problem in advance or provide professional assistance to those who are sexually ill.» I have to say it has little effect having a law that people don't know about, it has little effect having a law on the paper if it's not used. And it is in this context that the Progress Party, among other things, has made proposals. There are several people here who have pointed out the importance of translating, among other things. this law in several languages. It is strange that the same representatives cannot vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is: ‘The Government is asked to draw up, as soon as possible, an information leaflet informing about the criminality of sexual mutilation under Law No 15 December 1995. 74 on the prohibition of genital mutilation. This information must flow to all relevant bodies as soon as practicable.’» There's what you're asking for! Then it is strange that the majority in this Chamber opposes this proposal, in particular that of the representative of the Christian People's Party and the representative of the Labour Party, who has just stood on this pulpit and called for this to be done in other languages. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1720	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1723	It was a cross-political women's initiative that was the backbone of the Government's action programme. It was important for us to say that taking the fight against sexual mutilation seriously is to say that all girls are equally worth it, whether they are Norwegian-African, Norwegian or African. Everyone is entitled to protection regardless of their origin. When we – the women across – proposed making visible and improving cooperation with organisations and individuals working towards gender mutilation within the environments involved as the first point of the proposal, it was because we believe and believe that women and men within the environment need the strength needed to do the job and because we believe and believe in the dialogue. Experiences from Africa have shown that it is when a person starts from the grounds that they provide for sexual mutilation, and in the whole family's life situation, that the results are coming. The most important job to date has been done by courageous African women who have trodden the threats of tradition and achieved results. At the New York Women's Conference one year ago, I met Dr. Koso-Thomas from Sierra Leone. In a woman’s age, she has been in the fight against gender mutilation and for better health care for young people. It is important to make visible both the work she has done and what has been done by women in the quiet here home. This is a theme that is certainly not served by the type of lightweight solutions that the Progress Party comes with, or attempts to open doors. Building trust through information, dialogue and many tools is what is needed. I would like to commend the Government for the action plan they have come with. It must have time to work. The plan of action bears the impression that the government has done what we have asked it to do, namely to cooperate with the environment, whether it is the women's groups at the Primary Medical Workshop, which some of us have been and visited, or the MiRA Centre. It is this type of trustful work that will deliver results, together with information – which has been shared by many – both in the environments, at school and in health centres, to mention some arenas. Everyone needs to be trained to do the right dialogue. When the health centre is one of our most important prevention measures — not just here, but generally — it is because it is a low-threshold option that is voluntary. I sincerely believe that compulsory health checks will not create trust, but rather act stigmatizing. What is needed is better deployment of health centres, with competent people, and school health services both in high school and in high school. It is important to focus on the search light. The fight against circumcision is both women's struggle and the fight against sexualized violence. It's the fight against patriarchal structures that will control women's sexuality and women's health. I have a strong suspicion that the proposals of the Progress Party are not justified on the grounds of concern for the girls, but rather on the basis of once again trying to distinguish between 'them and us'. The result is exclusion and not the inclusion that is needed, in this fight and in other forms of repression. The party of progress has never been a leading party in the fight against women's oppression. There are many examples, including: that they would not be involved in doing anything for those women who flee from gender-based persecution and seek protection here. As I said, I think the action plan is good. What is about doing now is making sure that the measures are put into practice, that one is not greedy of the appropriations needed, and that one continues the long-term work, even when the media lights are not on the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1745	I think a quick person can agree that you're facing a challenging topic. But I think it's too easy to say that because the proposal is promoted by the Progress Party, you shouldn't take it in. I actually took the word because that argument came up. I am not going to vote in favour of the proposal from the Progress Party, because I think it has been promoted in a context that makes it not have the conditions that should be there. But after talking to myself, among other things. Kadra and some of the people who have worked around her, as well as talking to Norwegian health workers, I observe – and it is also clear from the Council’s letter – that Norwegian health workers are unprepared, that they have obviously seen things that they have not seen and done anything with. It also includes dealing with adult women who have been subjected to sexual mutilation, telling them whether the rights they have to be able to perform repairing surgery – women who, by getting it done, could actually be role models and told younger about the possibility of getting out of it. Insight into this world plus insight into a world about what's politically correct or not, makes me react, because until someone walked in with a hidden camera, it was so politically correct that you almost couldn't talk about it. I am a strong supporter of commitment dialogue. But obliging dialogue requires that people are also able to engage in a social confrontation. I'll take an example from another area. I have a friend who has worked both in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas and as child protection workers on Søndre Nordstrand. When she – as a woman – came home with a minority background, it happened that the men with Muslim background would not greet her. Then she confronted them socially by pulling out her hand twice and saying, "That's how we do it in Norway." I am not convinced that everyone who meets young and older women with the questions we have here has this kind of self-confidence and strength. I'm willing to give the action plan a chance, but I want to talk about this seriously. It was like when this came up, she who has been honored by everyone for her courage, namely Kadra, made it clear that maybe a health study that went on people in the risk group, and that you knew you were exposed to, would be one of the things that could affect, along with a number of other conditions – but I repeat: along with a number of other issues. I would like to rest my reflection with the Minister for Health, because I do not think this debate should conclude that because it is the Progress Party that has made a proposal, it is in itself wrong. These are aspects of the proposal that are wrong, including: what the Committee has properly cleaned up; the ongoing information work, how it is carried out in different languages, and other aspects of criminal liability, which have been made clear. I myself have been subjected to health check when I was little, and it was not so good to stand there in my underpants and be looked at. But we knew that there was someone who looked at us. Gradually, there has been less and less of this general health work, including: in school, so that the general view that I know the Committee is concerned with, to develop this, is a sensible view. This applies not only to those mentioned in this proposal, but to many, many others who might have benefited from getting a signal that society cares about them, regardless of age. When I took the floor in this case, it is because I have met people in the border country between what Norway will see and will not see. It has moved from coercion to bigami and also into the theme of sexual mutilation. I've talked to Norwegian women who are married into part of these minority communities, and there's no doubt that what they're saying gives a shocking social knowledge, where the whole point is: how do you break the oppressive structures? I now have no other conclusion than that which is the committee's conclusion, but I felt an obligation to leave the reasoning that I have expressed, rest, because we can't in any years to learn that basically the health professionals were equal in recent rounds. Let me conclude by saying that the person who visits secondary schools in Oslo regularly, as I do, meets at least teachers who can tell stories that are close up to the landscape we're talking about here, but who have the social knowledge that they don't have any right to deliver anything at all, but that sometimes it's terribly difficult to stand there alone and carry something that they don't properly know how to handle, and where you feel that the different authorities don't even talk, and also lack the competence that is underlined in the committee position that you should have. I think the Health Minister listens a lot to this debate, and I've been meaning to make my contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1771	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1785	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there is no chance of a reply being given after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1792	The lack of qualified health and care staff is one of the main obstacles to good capacity utilisation in the healthcare sector. In the Health Inspectorate’s 1999 supervisory report, 29 out of 31 hospitals explained that the biggest bottleneck problem in intensive care was a lack of nurses. And in Oslo, we know that there were 1,600 job vacancies when it came to nursing staff in the care of the elderly at the end of the year. The increase in older age groups in particular makes this very worrying. Not only the efforts in the care of the elderly, but also the efforts in the field of psychiatry and cancer care show that we need a great deal of qualified staff. Only these reforms together require more than 21 600 new health services by 2006. It is therefore important that you do something about the recruitment of healthcare. We know that there is a reserve of labour among nurses, at least between 8 000 and 10,000 years of work, and we also know that it is approx. 18 500 trained nurses who today do not work as nurses. Some of these have taken on further training and jobs in relevant professions, but they are not in the health and care sector itself. When we see at the same time that there is poor recruitment to education today, this becomes extra worrying. It is quite gratifying to note that for the coming academic year an increase has been recorded in the number of applications for nursing schools, but it is mainly because many applicants are admitted on the basis of real competence. Among applicants with normal study skills, there is still a decrease in the search for the nursing study. With regard to the health and social professions in secondary schools, the situation is also very worrying. In 1994, there were 14,500 applicants for secondary education in primary education in the health and social field. In 2000, there were 6,200 applicants – a very slowdown. Nor does it improve the image that we know that many of the students who are applying for this line option today are not particularly motivated to enter the care profession. There will be a need for between 10 000 and 12 000 assistants and caregivers until 2010, and with the recruitment we have now shown in relation to the search for training, this is very worrying. We also know that we're using approx. EUR 3/4 billion for short-term measures each year to resolve part of the manning situation in the health and care sector. These are measures such as hiring staff, recruiting from abroad and overtime to resolve this manning crisis. These are, in the Committee's view, means which should have been used for permanent work in order to bring back the self-educated health and care workers in permanent employment. We also know that within these professions there should be a better career and greater opportunities for professional education and development. In the case of load damage, the focus should be on working conditions and the environment. A minority in the Committee have said that something more needs to be done than has been done so far, and that a new action plan is needed to get health professionals back. Among other things, pay needs to be improved, and we have asked the Government to look at a pay package. These are not wage negotiations, but there is a clear signal of a review of the work area and of these professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1811	Lack of qualified staff is a major obstacle to good capacity utilisation in healthcare. Many reforms and escalation plans in the health and care sector have been adopted. The prerequisite for their implementation is increased access to health professionals. This was also highlighted in the examination of the year’s budget, and the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to draw up a new action plan with further recruitment and stabilisation measures for nurses and other health professionals, as well as measures to promote a more flexible work sharing between personnel groups in this context. The action plan must also include measures on how to get more trained nurses back to the nursing profession. A rapid evaluation of the experience of the transfer of continuing education in somatic care in the higher education system was also requested. There are most unaccompanied positions for nurses. There is reason to believe that it is possible to recruit more nurses for patient-oriented work and to find other solutions to some administrative tasks using other staff for such tasks. The number of annual work only in the care sector has increased by about 9 000 to date during the action plan period for the elderly. There is a need for further action under the Health Care Professional Action Plan, ‘Real person in a position’. Among other things, there is a need for more flexible worksharing solutions between personnel groups. Opportunities for professional development, a good working environment and skilled managers are important in order to make workplaces more attractive and provide greater stability in the workplace. It has been trained approx. 18 500 nurses who do not work in the profession today, but it is worth noting that these figures also include those who have received additional higher than tertiary education and are qualified for other jobs both inside and outside the healthcare system. Many of them work, for example: as teachers, both in higher education and in higher education, and we need them where they are today. In 1999, the Central Statistical Office had recorded that there were 7,850 year-olds who had nursery as their highest education and who work outside the healthcare system. There are many reasons why health professionals do not work in the profession. Cash support has also contributed to the fact that someone has chosen to work less, at least for a period of time. With regard to the proposals on equal opportunities for shifts and three-part turns, the issue has been debated in the United Kingdom both in 1997 and 1998. At its meeting on 27 January 1998, it was pointed out that the Bondevik government had launched an investigation to identify the economic consequences of an equalisation of three-part turns with full-time shift work, and that the government would possibly return to Stortinget with such a case after a hearing. The Bondevik government sat for over two years after that, but they never promoted such a case. But now that the central parties are in opposition, they are promoting the proposal again. We in the Workers' Party believe that this, as well as the pay question, is a matter that belongs to the collective bargaining arrangements between the social partners. The government's recruitment work continues in line with the Stortingen's decision in the budgetary procedure for this year. Thus, the original proposal raised in Document No. 8:112, be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1834	We have adopted major health reforms in this ageing period, perhaps the greatest ever. Common to most people is that they increase the need for more qualified health professionals. By 2006 we will need 21,600 new annual works. In such a situation, it is worrying that the health sector is struggling with recruitment and that health workers choose other professions after they have completed their education. A few years ago, auxiliary care was one of the most popular choices. In 2000, the proportion of primary applicants for basic health and social education courses was reduced to 9.7 pst. from 16.2 pst. of 1994. According to an Econ report, it is an 18 500-year labour force reserve. Norway does not serve to train so many nurses who just opt out of their profession, at least not as long as we need them. Lack of health professionals goes beyond patients. Operational rooms will be standing empty if there is not enough auxiliary staff to perform a surgical procedure. In the first line service, older people may be at risk of living only a small part of the day because the municipality lacks staff for larger evening shifts. Demand is being met in different ways today. Several nurses are recruited from abroad. This is both costly and resource-intensive, and there is no lasting solution to the health crisis. One might well also ask the question of whether it is right for Norway to drain other countries for the labour force, especially countries that could need higher skills in their own health work. It's going to be wrong when someone literally goes over the basin after water, or ‘over two oceans’, which my party colleague uses to express it when Aetat wants to travel to the Philippines after nurses. Instead of importing health professionals, we should facilitate Norwegian assistants and nurses to remain in their professions. Then it's not just a question of salary. The reason many stop has a lot to do with the work environment. Understaffing, high labour pressure and sole responsibility are reasons that are often mentioned. We can do something about this. It is also important to improve the ergonomics of the workplace so that one avoids too many heavy liftings leading to wear and tear, sick messages and that more people have to stop earlier than they really wanted. Professional development is also important. It is true that the Right Party and the Workers' Party write in their comments: one can indirectly reduce the lack of nurses by focusing on a more flexible division of labour between personnel groups. What the two parties don't write about is pay, which is an important factor. We have seen in the past what it has meant for the teachers, and the Christian People's Party believes that upgrading wages can be a contribution to stopping the flight from the profession. The evening post wrote on 5 May this year that wages do not give more nurses, but for those who practice the profession, higher wages may be the incentive to stay. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that temporary employment agencies are engaged in hiring health professionals. But for today's owners of, among other things, hospitals have been an expensive solution and difficult for long-term planning. The Christian People's Party wants a concrete plan to get more caregivers back in their professions. We want to find out a pay package of our own for these groups. In order to get more involved in larger job breaks, we suggest that an in-house three-piece tour with continuous shift work. I'll take up the suggestions we're on. These provide solutions with both short-term and long-term instruments. Working in healthcare is exciting and challenging. Satisfied health professionals provide even more grateful and satisfied patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1868	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1871	As many people have experienced this evening and many times before, there is a major shortage of qualified personnel in both the specialist and care services sectors. If we are to be able to implement the reforms we have adopted here in the Stortinget, it is absolutely necessary to increase access to doctors, nurses and caregivers. This is the broad consensus. Only a few months ago, a unanimous increase was decided to ask the Government to draw up a new action plan with additional recruitment and stabilisation measures for nurses and other staff, as well as measures to promote a flexible division of labour between the personnel groups. In particular, Stortinget considered it important to take measures to get more nurses back to their professions. It is clearly a potential to recruit nurses for patient-oriented work and also to relieve already employed nurses in administrative tasks using other personnel groups. Professional development, a good working environment and competent managers can contribute to better jobs and greater stability. On the right, a new action plan, which Stortinget adopted just before Christmas, as requested by a unanimous committee, will help to improve the health workforce situation. It is not difficult to understand that trade unions are working to reduce working time for their members, nor do they want to achieve higher wages. As a former trade union leader, I know that this is their job. As a former trade union leader, I also have great respect for the negotiating system as to how it will work in practice. One thing is at least clear to me: it's not the Storting's job to conduct wage negotiations. There is a relationship between the social partners. The proposal on the equalisation of three-part turns and all-continuous shiftwork has been dealt with in the Stortinget several times before, as others have also been involved, by January 1998 at the latest. The reason given by the majority in order not to support this was that the then Minister of State of the Central Party felt that it was necessary to carry out a thorough examination of the practical and socio-economic consequences of such a proposal. We haven't seen anything like that. In the debate, the then State Council stressed the importance of having a broad background to address this issue. It is therefore amazing that the same party, including Svarstad Haugland, is now proposing this again. Very well-known, there is no such investigation as they themselves used as a reason not to take a decision on this issue. Is it so that the Christian People's Party before they came into government in 1997, was for this, without looking at the practical and socio-economic consequences? After they got into government, they needed an investigation, and now they're out of position and promoting the proposal again, without any impact assessment. This is not credible. And what did the government of Bondevik, including the Center Party, do in the two and a half years they had the opportunity from position? The situation wasn't better then. They did nothing, absolutely nothing concrete. They just investigated, a work that no one has seen the results of. They did not propose to equate a three-part tour with a full-time shift, nor did they propose a pay package for nursing and nursing staff. Then it is quite free of the Center Party to go out to the media and blame the Right Party and the Workers' Party for not agreeing to ask the government to prepare a pay package. It's not for believers. Introducing a reduction in working time in a situation where health professionals are suffering from a chilling shortage is completely wrong medicine. The right has faith that government responsibility for the specialist health service and freed hospitals, which give health care providers responsibilities to employers, can help improve the health care situation. In the opinion of the Right, hospitals will be more able to use wages and other personnel policy tools to recruit health professionals on the basis of local assessments at the individual hospital. And I think it's a little weird that the right is alone about this remark in the setting. Finally, I would like to refer to the vote on the 2001 budget and the comments in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1886	I guess you should be careful with this in and out of position. You can quickly meet yourself in the door. The problem pointed out by the proposers in the present document No. 8 proposals, are not an unknown concept, but have been a persistent problem for the last 10–15 years. Nor is Norway the only country in Western Europe that is struggling with these problems to a greater or lesser extent. In the last 10 years, Norway has been lucky and has been able to transfer healthcare professionals from, among others, Sweden and Denmark. This now appears to dry up, and it is now more difficult to recruit nurses and special staff from both Sweden and Denmark in short-term and long-term contracts. The reasons for the departure from the health and care professions are many and very complex. It is difficult to point out a reason alone to the departure from the profession. When one was able to register again too soon by a survey of nursing students that only 50 pst. There is a real need to ask what motivation these people have for entering a profession as health and care workers. Whether you want to accept it or not, you cannot equate care and care with working life in business or in the service industries. The difference is, of course, that here we are talking about treatment, care and care for living, sick, caring people, who make great demands on the personality, the interest and not least the empathy of health professionals. For 40 to 50 years ago – so old am I – was called to be a nurse quite real. Today, the cold rod is almost gone in the choice of professions in the health sector, and partly ridiculed. I'm the first one to complain about this. Nor do I ignore the fact that the health and care employers have played on this with the cold mind for a long time, and in many cases it has been guiding both the remuneration and the organisation of working conditions. When the remuneration and organisation of good working conditions for health professionals both inside and outside the institution are almost disconnected from the responsibilities of health professionals in relation to the individual patient, it is no wonder that wages have been so far kept down and working conditions have been both random and too poor. Not least this manning factor. In my opinion, it is a poor solution to try to resolve the manning crisis in our health institutions and in our care for labour immigration. It is far more positive and more correct, also in relation to our patients, to try to facilitate the repatriation of a significant number of nurses to the profession and to reduce time and fractions. Not many days ago, there was a look in one of the major newspapers that the nurses had major problems getting full-time employment in our Norwegian hospital. It didn't work, you had to go in a fractional position to make the so-called tour plan go up. This is by no means a hesitation – Mr President, I should not have said that! Norwegian health professionals have an even higher level of professional and ethical standards, and it will therefore be extremely important to focus on the return of those out of the profession, both to hospitals and care. Many different measures can be assessed. I will briefly mention someone, first of all, a radical reorganisation within our hospitals, where both nurses and other health professionals are assigned tasks for which they are trained. And then I'm not so sure that the need is as great as anyone wants it to be today. If this is to succeed, the current wage and salary policy needs to be changed so that it will pay off financially for nurses to work with patients. In fact, today the situation is such that there is more in the pay bag for health professionals by switching to administrative work instead of being with patients. This must be easily changeable. Furthermore, promotion opportunities need to be provided internally in each hospital and also in the care of the elderly, on the basis of professional quality and skills enhancement. Basic education for both nurses and caregivers is currently reasonably good in our country, perhaps much better than in several other countries with which we can compare. The problem is only non-response when education is completed. Personally, I have good faith that internal reorganization in hospitals will address many of these problems. I am also concerned that we should extend the possibility with independent rental agencies for health professionals. I think it's going to be more and more. My impression of contact with nurses who have entered into such temporary jobs is very positive, and I believe this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1903	So far in the evening, the president won't say anything about language.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1906	Perhaps the biggest challenge we have in health care and care in the future is getting enough people. And it looks like we've got a long time. For several years it has been demonstrated that tens of thousands of new workers are needed to get the reform and the necessary care in place. Despite this, there has not been enough resources in the local economy to enable the municipal sector to implement wage settlements that have made it possible to recruit and maintain people, or to have employment conditions that have prevented people from becoming ill at work and have actually become patients. Very many people have not endured to retirement but have had to move to another profession or have been disabled. In this way, healthcare now produces its own patients. It's not appropriate, and it's not worth it. I think the cold's time is over, as Alvheim said, and it's been a long time. I think we just have to stick our finger in the ground and see that there's got to be some real pay and working conditions here. SV promoted in connection with the municipal budget for this year a proposal that the Government and the Municipal Councils should prepare a recruitment message together. KS and the Government have a consultation system, which is new, and we thought it would have been a good venue to address these issues and see what was needed in the municipal sector when it came to care and care. So far, hospitals have also been in there. We thought that the success of the recruiting message for the teachers, where they got a paylift and put arrangements in place, meant that there was optimism in the system. Unfortunately, no one wanted to support the SV proposal at the time. But that the government is using the consultation system with the KS, I think it is necessary to get realistic plans both for staffing and for different schemes to recruit and maintain health professionals. Here I just want to remind you that in the context of the reforms now in the municipal sector, both in terms of the division of tasks and in the local economy, there are very many cuts in different schemes that go on, for example. staffing and competence requirements in positions. SV has been skeptical about this. We do not think that the government has in any way documented the effects of removing these regulations and regulations, and that we do not then risk even worse manning and even worse skills for those who are going to do the jobs. We fear it, because we can't in any way see that it's too well manned, or that there's too many employees with too much competence. So the question of equalizing the turns and shifts. SV has raised that theme as a private proposal during this period. And I think this debate about who has been sitting for a long time and investigating what is quite uninteresting. Either that's right, or it's wrong. What surprises me most is perhaps the Labour Party's attitude to this. Because if you look back a little bit on the story of how the movement of workers has worked through both parties and through the movement of workers, it has been very often that you have negotiated solutions that have been right, in agreements, and then you have done this politically, because you have seen that it has been right and necessary to do this for everyone. I am not sure that equalising turns and shifts is the most important measure – I am not quite sure about it – but I think we should look at it, because this is an important signal about equality between heavy professions that requires a lot. I also think it may be that some fear that this should be a shortening of working time that will lead to even more people working. I think it might actually work the other way around. I think that many of those who go in these jobs are concerned that they feel the difference in a negative way compared to those who work in the industry. I think one should not be so frenetic about that this is a question of negotiation. You can go back and look at everything you've done to law over time, which was initially a negotiated agreement. If you hadn't followed it up, it would have been clumsy with the legislation in this country in many of the social areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1919	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1923	I will not try to go out too much time, but there are a few things I would like to comment on, both because I was given poor time in the main post and because some things have been said in the debate until now – not least what was said by the representative Sjøli from the Right. There it was stated that it was not Stortingen's job to conduct wage negotiations. I also said in my post that there were no wage negotiations when we said that a pay package should be prepared. However, there was a clear signal of a review of the labour and responsibilities and of the professionals in this sector. It must be possible to be believed in. In the case of a pay package or not, and that it is ready to criticise others for not participating in it, there must be reason to ask whether the majority opinion of the Workers' Party and the Right has a particular impact when they say: ‘There is reason to believe that there are both potentials for recruiting more nurses for patient-oriented work and, in addition, for already employing nurses for, among others. administrative tasks’, etc. The last thing I agree with. However, such as another representative was present, some nurses also choose administrative professions because they are better paid. With regard to having the Storting as the arena for wage negotiations, I believe that the Right has also promoted some political views in that direction, not least in the education sector, and said that the public sector profession should be appraised quite considerably when it comes to pay levels. So pay is an instrument. And it is also for the Right, but the Right refers to it primarily when it becomes state health businesses – then you have to be able to use wage policy as an instrument. I wonder then: is it because you are going to have huge inequalities within these occupational groups, or what makes wages as an instrument so much better? The crew factor has to rise, said Alvheim, and I agree with that. But there's going to be a little bit of chicken and egg, because we have to get more into these professions in order for us to be able to get up the manning factor. The cold time is over – I think we agree that we are here in the hall. But then we also have to agree on proper pay and employment. In the case of the Tournament service, whether it has been a long time, and whether there have been investigations or hearings that have not come any longer, there must at least be a political will to have the matter presented and debated here in the Chamber if we are to move on with it and get equal rotation and shiftwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1943	The background for which this document has no comments. The 8th proposal is precisely what I was talking about in my speech, that a unanimous increase in the budget for the current year decided to draw up a new action plan with further recruitment and stabilisation measures for nurses and other staff. I guess that should hold. At least it was also held by the representative before Christmas. I have two questions for the representative. What is it like to draw up a pay package, if it doesn't have to do with money and pay? The second is, why did the central government think that an investigation of these questions was necessary when they were in government, and why is that not necessary now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1950	Well, I guess it's polite to answer the questions that are asked you, so I'll try to do it. In the case of a pay package, it is clear that it has to do with money and wages, but there are no wage negotiations in that context. It is a financial evaluation of the job being done. So you'll have to discuss how this is to be inputted and graduated in relation to the professionals in the health sector, but I think there's at least a need to signal it. As regards the investigation and consultation on the tour service, it was on time, and we can regret that it has not come any more. But if it is to go further, it must at least be political will at some point. If it was missing before, we should at least get it out now. And no one has said that it should not be able to be investigated before it is presented. It is common for the government to do so with matters that it presents for treatment in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1959	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 20. It is likely that more than the president is happy that voting will now be called! [[Food, see page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1974	: Then we should be ready for voting in case no. 1 to 20 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e1983	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, by Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Left proposal No. 5, by Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6–16, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party, and proposals Nos. 17-22, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will draw attention to the fact that there will be a correction of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the last line, the proposal included an ‘u’ too much. The sentence shall be replaced by the following: ‘The increase in the number of scholarships is made depending on the number of weight points taken’. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17–22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the draft legislation to develop external quality control systems for task design and projects in order to maximise the considerations underlying the current external censorship system.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The professor’s criteria include teaching skills as well as publication and research.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «Stip termination rate is provided as a fixed proportion of the aid amount, irrespective of the study progress.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The cost standard shall be linked to the basic amount of the public interest equivalent to 2G.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «Introduction of student loans on an income-dependent basis.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘Depreciation of student loans is introduced for students in the fields of visual arts, performing arts, art and crafts, ballet and the composition and management diploma studies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2046	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6–16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a degree with the name Bachelor based on a 3-year course based on a scheme of 3 semesters per calendar year.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that all students are fully funded, irrespective of where the studies are conducted, as long as the qualitative content is satisfactory.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes in order to transform universities, colleges and their peripheral societies into independent legal entities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to establish independent evaluation and accreditation bodies. They shall be responsible for evaluating and awarding/withdrawing approval of institutions’ training provision.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to comply with the principle of appointed external boards of higher education institutions, and otherwise the necessary, appropriate and sound representation of students, scientific staff and other disciplines.’; Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Governing Board shall appoint the administrative directors of higher education institutions in accordance with the principle of fixed-term exposures. However, time-limits in recruitment leave the board free to clean if they consider this desirable.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that Norwegian educational institutions are placed equally in favour of funding and recognition.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that companies be deducted from their investment in research and research-related work at the time of purchase of equipment.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to introduce input-driven funding in higher education as well’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to ensure that student loans are also subject to tax deductions on the same basis as interest.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to link the student cost standard to the basic amount of the population’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2114	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals with a view to giving universities and colleges the right to choose their own organisational model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2128	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from Christian People's Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the higher education institutions themselves shall be able to determine the internal governance structure of their organisations and that this responsibility shall lie with the governments of the institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2143	I voted against and voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2150	Then the votes are going to be 50 for and 50 against. The President voted against, and therefore the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2153	The voting lights aren't on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2160	Vottering lights are on in the room. Then the President will propose that we take the vote again. That is why we are voting on proposal No. 4, from Christian People's Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2171	It was a pretty big change that happened there. Hopefully that's the correct result. The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the Left Party. Proposal No. 2, with the correction made, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to raise the cost standard of the State Loan Fund for Education by approximately NOK 1 100 per year. the month, and that this is done in its entirety by increasing the grant from 30 to 40 pst. It is assumed that today's grant is 30 pst. remain independent of weight/study score, while the increase in the number of students is made dependent on the number of persons given weight.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the system of artistic scholarships for artists, ballet artists and artisans. The art degree for these groups is set to 66,6 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2196	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that scientific colleges can obtain university status and that State colleges with more than one doctoral education can apply for university status. This transition shall be facilitated by the levers of Agder, Bodø and Stavanger. A shall also see the extent to which a university may be developed in the country.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2236	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2239	The progress batch will go against the setting I, indent 3: «– The principle of research-based education at universities and higher education institutions shall be maintained.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2249	So the progress party wants to vote against indent 3 under I.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2293	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2310	The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2344	The President assumes that the Labour Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2393	Here the President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2396	The Progress Party has promised to provide subsidiary support once its primary proposals have been dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2417	It is assumed that the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Socialist Left and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2450	The President expects the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2475	The President expects the Labour Party and the Socialist Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2535	10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Petter Løvik on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Petter Løvik, on behalf of the Right and the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 4-10, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make available funds to schools in the period 2002-2005 for stimulating improvements in content and structure at the secondary level, in the 2002 state budget starting to strengthen the youth at school by 10 billion. SEK over a period of four years.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the construction of new schools, to add an architectural design that stimulates new forms of learning and organisational expression in the school.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government, when revising the curriculum, asks the Government to take into account a lower degree of detail in the curriculum definition of national learning material.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to include participation in everyday life and the psychosocial work environment in its proposal for working environment regulations for pupils and students.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2002 is asked to provide funds for full PC coverage in primary education. This means sufficient universal access to computers to enable ICT to be actively used by students in the learning process.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2002 State Budget, to commit appropriations to stimulate schools to test various pedagogical and organisational trials, including the development of teachers’ competences.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the State Budget for 2002 to propose measures to eliminate any excesses in primary schools relating to teaching material, equipment and instructional arrangements resulting from the curriculum.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2592	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the reorganization of its early stage of youth, with a view to giving students progressively greater freedom of choice and greater opportunities for professional deepening.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the requirements for the competence of teachers in their early childhood, so that teachers who teach in the field of theory should have at least one year of professional deepening in the field.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2613	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, from the Right Party, from the Advance Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate a differentiated teacher training’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2649	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 5 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a plan to cut down on Svalbard coal production, including a plan to set up business to replace the jobs lost in the closure of the coal industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2691	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security, which result in decisions on occupational injury being taken in a single competent body and becoming valid for other providers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2707	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Are Næss, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to base its future health policy on the legislation adopted for specialist health services and the plans that were finalised in each health region during 2000.Cooperation and better coordination between individual health regions, between individual institutions and between specialist health services and primary health services must be organised and clarified through the development of a national health plan in which all parts of health services are reviewed and coordinated.In the preparation of such a national health plan, funding schemes must also be reviewed and improved; the same applies to resource issues relating to investment needs, personnel needs, research and education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2730	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Are Næss, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a Public Coordination and Dissemination Centre for Free Treatment Capacity providing free communication of the necessary information on the processing capacity of the specialist healthcare service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2747	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Are Næss, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001: «The Government asks the Government to develop a common employer policy to recruit and maintain public health labour.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2764	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Are Næss, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The government is asking for a thorough independent evaluation of the hospital reform after the second year of operation. The evaluation shall culminate in a wholesale notification in the autumn of 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2781	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Are Næss, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate any state acquisition of psychiatry’s first line service and child and youth psychiatry, including cooperation with primary health services. [[protected accommodation, outpatient clinics outside hospitals, etc.]] Responsibilities and property of these healthcare services shall not be altered until further notice.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2798	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Annelise Höegh, representative of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the input-based financing of hospital services is paid directly to the individual health business according to the production of services.’ [[ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2815	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Annelise Höegh, representative of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to enter into an agreement with GetMedic or other private individuals offering a functioning information system for the dissemination of available capacity in Norwegian and foreign hospitals, so that Norwegian patients can have a real opportunity to exercise the right to free hospital choice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2832	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Are Næss on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Are Næss has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2844	In the light of the input of the Council of State into the debate, I would ask that proposal No. 2 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2849	Proposal No. 2 has been proposed for transmission. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a full review of the operation at the Rikshospitalet and submit the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ This proposal is proposed to be forwarded to the Government without a vote of the facts – it is deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownSubjectCrones731Rikshospitalet50State grants, increased by NOK 1 015 100000 to NOK 1 285 100000 270 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2953	During the debate, John I. Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an economic and timetable for making available the Committee’s response time proposals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e2967	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left will now subsidize the third vote. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3013	The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against, but is somewhat uncertain about the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3016	We vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3054	During the debate, Are Næss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to increase the capacity of the medical departments in Norwegian hospitals to meet the need in line with demographic developments in Norway, so that corridors and overcoatings become unnecessary.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:36 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3074	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce compulsory health checks for children in risk groups.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up, as soon as possible, an information leaflet informing about the criminality of sexual mutilation under Law No 15 December 1995. 74 on the prohibition of genital mutilation. This information must flow to all relevant bodies as soon as practicable.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to legislate health professionals – or others who become aware of gender impairment – to report that gender mutilation has taken place.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3108	During the debate Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, on the basis of the action plan for healthcare professionals 1998–2001, to make rapid proposals for concrete actions that can bring healthcare professionals back to their occupations and that may lead part-time assistants and nurses to work more. In this context, the government is asking that a pay package be drawn up by the government for care personnel in line with what has been done in the past for other public sector professions where there have been major recruitment problems. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up a new action plan for the recruitment of health professionals 2002-2005 focusing on concrete measures to recruit nurses and other care professionals and to stabilise the manning situation. In this context, the Storting asks for proposals to be made for changes to the Working Environment Act in order to make three-part rotational work equal to continuous shiftwork.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12-2.ana.ud240e3140	There is no record.
