ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e45	The first person to speak is Sverre Myrli, on behalf of the President-in-Office, Ola Røtvej, who is in Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e48	There has been some serious discussion before this debate about the right to introduce road pricing. Many people have – and it may not be so strange – had some difficulty distinguishing between road pricing and what we traditionally know as tolls, with which we gradually have good experience here to land. Tolls have traditionally been a way of quickly building road projects. Tolls are thus a way of taking money to finance road projects, while the aim of road pricing, which the majority now opens up, is to be able to take traffic regulation measures. I repeat once again: the purpose of tolls is traditionally to finance roads – take in money and build roads – while the purpose of road pricing is to regulate traffic in certain places at certain times. Already at the time of the 1997 Norwegian Road and Road Road Plan, a large majority of the Stortinget were positive in introducing road pricing as a traffic-regulating instrument. It is therefore gratifying that the Storting today, after all the sun tags, decides to open up so that one can introduce road pricing. The purpose of road pricing is – and I say it for the third time – traffic management. It shall not be possible to put into service road pricing without the ability of a single location to document real transport and environmental problems. What is also important after last week’s debate is that it will not be possible, as the majority now propose, to use road pricing in places where toll-funded road projects currently exist. In other words, one cannot have both road pricing and toll financing in the same areas. Before it can become relevant to introduce so-called road pricing in our big cities where we currently have tolls – and this is an instrument that will only be applicable in or around our major urban areas – then one must renegotiate or terminate those packages before one can use road pricing. Another area that has been discussed and that has also been given attention in the committee setting is the responsibility of local authorities in the matter of using road pricing. The general rule to which the majority now refers is that the municipalities and county councils concerned must join in the proposal to introduce road pricing on a case-by-case basis. Then the minority in the Committee, the Right Party and the Advance Party clearly point out that it is not unproblematic that the Storting can in some cases take decisions to impose road pricing. I shall clearly admit that this is a not unproblematic issue. Now, I have to say that the experience that you have gained after many years of road projects financed by tolls is – as far as I know – that the principle of local political support has been followed in all the matters that have been dealt with. For example, the reason why the majority of cases allow the Storting to impose praise on the road in very special cases is: – and that is a thoughtful example – that the municipalities and municipalities concerned are going in to use road pricing in a city or in a metropolitan area, and perhaps one municipality is opposed to this. The question is whether it is right that a single municipality should be able to veto and say that there will be no road pricing. For this reason, the Stortinge will be able to impose a price on the road, but the Stortinge will have to take decisions on a case-by-case basis. I would say, however, that I believe that the issue is theoretical. I would like to see the bulk of the population who will adopt a toll project if it is not locally connected to the project. In the same way, I am absolutely sure that it will be with road pricing. I believe it could never happen that Stortinget requires an area to introduce road pricing if there is no local connection to it. Another important element of what is now being added is that, as a general rule, the net income from road pricing is to be allocated by 50 pst. to the State and 50 pst. to municipalities and counties. The final distribution between the different levels of government and within each level of government, i.e. the use to be made by the State, the counties and municipalities concerned, must be clarified in each case, through the treatment of individual road pricing proposals by the Storting. What is now also stated, in contrast to what was outlined in Norwegian road and road traffic plans four years ago, is that the net income from road pricing should be earmarked for transport purposes in the area concerned. In other words, if road pricing is introduced, the authorities shall not be able to use the revenue from road pricing for all other good purposes. The revenue is therefore to be earmarked for transport purposes. And equally important: it opens up the possibility for a person to use the revenues of public transport, including operational measures, as well as, of course, road safety and environmental measures and other measures that naturally fall within the concept of transport purposes. There is no desire, as I see it, that the Storting should limit the local transport purposes for which revenue may be used, as long as there is some form of transport. I believe that, if road pricing were to be introduced, there would be a great deal of interest in using funds both for operating and investing in public transport, measures to improve the environment and road safety, the construction of such things as collective terminals and entrance car parks and, of course, for operating and maintaining investments in the traditional road network. However, as I said, revenue should be used exclusively for transport purposes. I am not going to conceal here today that the introduction of road pricing, where it might be applicable in large urban areas, could also have negative consequences. All behavioural measures could have a negative impact on some. It's definitely the minority right in it. But the experience, I almost think I can say from metropolitan areas around the world, is that one can't solve the capacity problems in and out of the urban areas of the Rushtide just by building new roads. As far as I know, there are no big cities that have managed to solve the transportation challenges in Rushtide with just new and larger and wider roads. It is also necessary in some way to introduce traffic regulation measures, if, as I said, it could also have negative consequences. Then I want to add: in addition to building up the road network and introducing traffic regulation measures in some way, such as: road pricing, must extend public transport in individual areas. All three elements are probably equally important in solving transport problems in and out of major cities, both here to land and probably also internationally. It is important to clarify: Some have made it like that now road pricing will be introduced almost land and beach all over the Kingdom. That's not right at all. The State shall not impose road pricing anywhere. But what the majority of people are doing today, or the majority of people in Odelstinget are more likely to say, is changing the law so that one can open up the introduction of road pricing. I repeat: there will not now be road pricing across large parts of our country as a result of the decision in Odelstinget today. Local authorities shall, where appropriate, take the initiative and bring the matter forward in the final decision-making system in the Storting, if they wish to introduce road pricing locally. And as I said earlier in the post, it's clear that this will only be true in and around our biggest cities, and we don't have so many big cities in Norway that are struggling with significant traffic problems in Rushtida. I also said earlier, and I repeat it once again: it will not be possible to introduce road pricing at the same time as you have tolls in an area. I would therefore like to dedramatise something like a few, four months before the election, to make it appear that the state is now introducing road pricing across large parts of our country. What one might see in and around our big cities, where one today has, in most places at least, some kind of toll collection, toll packages, is a combination of traditional toll collection and a form of road pricing. Many have said that there will be enormous costs for families with children and others who need to drive at certain times. As I said before, I'm not going to hide that it's going to have negative consequences for some, it might have. But you can also imagine that you can turn the tile around, that it's going to be cheaper to drive on some routes at some times in the day compared to what you normally know. Why can't it be topical in the early morning or a little out in the morning to set down the toll prices instead of putting them up in the rush time? There are many ways in which you can get money, and at the same time regulate car traffic. It is necessary to regulate traffic in metropolitan areas. As I said, we are opening up, where it is desirable, to use road pricing as one tool. However, other instruments also need to be used and, in addition, public transport in each area needs to be expanded. Road pricing is one measure that can be implemented. And sail if there's only four months left for the election, I think it would have been cowardly if the Storting had not opened up to use road pricing as an effective traffic regulation measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e86	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e89	It was interesting to hear the representative Myrli repeat and repeat this with road pricing, but he said very little about something at the end of the setting. I'll just read it. The working party and, among other things, the of course, ‘referring to the possibility of additional fuel charges being levied within a defined geographical area as an alternative to the financing of road projects and that such charges have been introduced in Tromsø’. Will the Workers' Party, in addition to both toll and road pricing charges and all the other taxes currently available on cars and motor vehicles, also initiate such a fuel tax in Tromsø? Do they now want it on a large scale in the country as well as everything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e96	I mentioned in my post that many, or perhaps we can say most, of our big cities have toll-funded entry and exit veins in some way. In Tromsø, a traditional system has brought in an extra charge for petrol, which has helped finance the road system in Tromsø. But there is nothing that the Stortinget has decided to introduce in Tromsø quite simply, it is because a local, in Tromsø town and in Tromsø county, has thought that there was a proper way to take in money to finance infrastructure in Tromsø. So the answer to Nistad is simply no, at least from the Labour Party, and I think I can also talk to the majority in the Chamber today. But at least from their own party, it would not be appropriate here in Stortinget to initiate the imposition of such an additional fuel charge in Tromsø in other parts of our country. In this case, it is something that a local must take the initiative, in the same way as one must in the case of traditional toll projects, and in the same way as one must in relation to the possible introduction of road pricing. The reason why the majority specifically mentions the extra fuel charge is precisely the situation in Tromsø, where one has been made aware that both in Tromsø and in Troms County are working on the continuation of the fuel charge and that one should be able to use the revenues from it gradually to plough into the operation of the public transport. That's why the majority today say it's a positive one. If someone locally wants to, we should not in Stortinget have any counter-conceptions about it, and if it is not possible within existing laws, ask the government to come back to the matter and possibly present it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e103	It is not possible to get past the fact that the Workers' Party and the other parties are behind this with the petrol price and open up the possibility that the petrol price can also be used as a basis for charging around Norway's country. There's no doubt about it, that's what it says. It's true that it's related to Tromsø, but there are no limitations in that way. But that's not what I wanted a line to. In a way, the representative Myrli tried to de-dramatize the effect of road pricing, and he did so by pointing out that one could not have road pricing at the same time as one had tolls, as if it were supposed to be the great good for the consumers! The representative of Myrli knows perfectly well that this proposal is not related to consumer concerns. It's only because you want to defend the state's interests. It goes without saying that if you put road pricing on a route, you will have a traffic regulation measure. Then the number of drivers will fall, and the state's revenue from the tolls will be lost. And the state has committed itself through the tolling agreement to cover any deficits of some of these companies. So this is just a perfect way to make sure that the state keeps its income. It must not be produced as if this were in many ways a favourable solution for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e110	Only until the Nilsen raised an extra fuel charge, that in what the majority of people say, there are no limitations, and that only Tromsø should be involved. That's in and out of control. But now it is such that there is no separate law in Norway's Lover that applies only to Tromsø, it is clear that the laws applicable to Tromsø must also apply to the rest of the Kingdom. But I want to stress what I also said instead, that there is no one, I believe, in this room who is interested in introducing the extra – let's call it – the petrol charge that one has in Tromsø, in other cities if one locally is not set to do so. The reason why that's the way it is in Tromsø is, as I said before, that one in Tromsø thought it was a good and effective way to get money to finance the road network. Then I think that Nilsen dramatizes the situation – or much, I guess I would say – I have to honestly say that I had a little difficulty understanding what his main score was. But I can underline what is at least my main point with the introduction of road pricing. It's not income at all. Should we have taken more money to finance road or public transport, it is clear that there are completely different ways to do it effectively. I'm going to believe that the most effective thing is today's toll packages, today's way of collecting tolls, that income is a more efficient way of taking money. Maybe that's what was part of the Nilsen point, too, that the income could go down. But I just want to say once again: the reason why the majority today want to open up to introduce road pricing is simply to be able to use it as a traffic regulation measure. In many places there is a major problem with the environment and the environment in Rushtida, and we have a responsibility to implement tools to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e117	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e120	Two and a half months have already passed since the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg dealt with its national transport plan. The dividing lines and the main arguments in the question of road pricing were relatively well highlighted in the debate on the National Transport Plan on 15 February. The Christian People's Party wants to use road pricing as an instrument to reduce the traffic-related problems related to traffic in the largest cities. Air pollution from car traffic is one of the most important sources of poor urban air and causes health problems for very many. Road pricing is one of several measures that can help reduce the problems. Road pricing is traffic regulation, said the representative Myrli sometimes, and road pricing means that road users have to pay to use certain parts of the road network at certain times. The government has proposed that road pricing and tolls should not be used simultaneously in the same area – which we have now had a little discussion around. But you can renegotiate this with tolls with the municipalities, so that you can possibly get a time-differentiated toll system, which becomes a kind of road pricing. We hope that this can be implemented more quickly in several cities than if you have to wait until already completed toll projects have been paid down and the associated toll stations have been brought down. Oslo has something to learn, among other things. by Bergen and also by Trondheim, where tolls are required only in the daytime, not in the evening or in the weekends, and thus make it more reasonable at other times of the day than it is today. The government has proposed that road pricing be a complement to current fuel charges. The Christian People's Party has long fought for fuel and driving to be no more expensive in the districts than in the cities. Unfortunately, there is a majority among others. The Labour Party and the Right said no to our proposal for a price equalization system. With road pricing, we get a system that actually makes car use in cities more expensive than car use in districts, and that makes sense. It is in line with the burden on car traffic on the environment. The greenhouse effect of driving is the same in any case, and it pays the car lists for through the CO2 tax on the fuel. However, the local environmental problems caused by car traffic in cities have not been billed for before now. It's actually professional right to make it more expensive to drive a car in the city than in the country, and in addition, it's good district policy. The Christian People's Party agrees with the general rule that there should be local support for a proposal to introduce road pricing. But we believe it is necessary that the opening adopted by the Stortinget, that decisions can be taken without municipal support in special cases. This may be particularly relevant in cases where a municipality is alone in resisting such a proposal and, where appropriate, in special cases where it is the State which has to take the cost of deploying the infrastructure required, if no action is taken to reduce just the traffic in intoxication. The Ministry of Transport proposes, in line with the consultation note, that the net revenue from road pricing should be earmarked for transport purposes in the area concerned, and this may well help to create local understanding. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that revenue from road pricing goes for transport purposes, and in particular we will give priority to better provision of collective services, road safety measures and environmental measures. In particular, it is important that the funds can also go to the operation of the collective offer, not only for investment. One of the objections to road pricing has been the distribution effect. The argument that families with children and people with low incomes are affected can be used at any charge. It is no more relevant in relation to road pricing than other charges. Road pricing will lead to higher costs for those who have to drive a car in their rush hour. On the other hand, users of the road network will benefit from better accessibility and more predictable driving time. Residents in the areas concerned will have a better living environment and better alternative transport, as such a scheme could contribute to a better provision of collective services. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the families of children. Walking against road pricing is not particularly targeted in this respect. From our point of view, we stress that it is not possible to design all individual charges with an allocation perspective, and that this must primarily be done through fiscal policy. At the same time, from the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that a good and reasonable collective offer is a prerequisite for road pricing, and that road pricing should not have too much negative distribution consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e146	Let me first clarify a little bit about tolls and road pricing, which I was talking about. It is true that every toll company in Norway is indebted and that the debt is covered by the volume of traffic in Norway and the price per toll. Pass-by. That, in turn, means that it is not possible to introduce road pricing as road pricing should be understood, at the same time, because that price should be set so high as to be rejected. That is to say, the income of such a toll company will be reduced, and in the last round, due to the toll agreement, it will be the State that will have to pay the amount of the toll. That's how I've perceived it, and I think it is. That's why you can't combine these two things. That's the explanation. There's no gesture to anyone. It is simply a practical arrangement because one has debts, and the debt is to be paid through interest and instalments determined by the traffic going there and the price charged. And if you put in road pricing, so you reduce traffic, we have a financing problem. That's the way it is. This case of road pricing or drug charge has been dealt with many times in Stortingen in different contexts, and so has the legislative proposal we are dealing with. In fact, the majority have indicated over many years that they want road pricing in Norway. In this way, this day is not a happy day for Norwegian drivers, rather on the contrary. The arguments for and against road pricing, who has been for, and who has been against, are reasonably clear, so it is no surprise that the Right is against road pricing or the Raush tax. We've been up to that in road plans ever since the end of the 1980s. The starting point is that the drivers have to pay for the costs they incur to society at all times. What is often not mentioned is that in Norway there are some people who pay for their costs, it is private cars. They pay through purchase fees on the car, through the annual tax and through the petrol tax. In addition, they have also financed through tolls a large number of the projects on which road pricing is now to be levied. It's a fact. The right is against road pricing and will therefore not vote in favour of this bill. You sit and ask, what's the majority essentially for? They say they're for road pricing, but in all debates everywhere they flee when we come to the discussion about how high this fee must be in order for them to achieve what they're looking for. They then owe it to local politicians to decide on this. But the truth is that there is only one study related to this, I am aware, and it is the Transport Economics Institute in Oslo, which shows that the price must be between 30 and 50 kroner per. Pass-by. Then you will achieve an effect of approx. 4 pst. reduction in rush time and 1 pst. overall reduction. I ask the majority to answer if that is what they mean. Is it 40, 50, 60 dollars they mean, or isn't it road pricing they're talking about? I don't think a single community in Norway will dare to make such a decision. They're not going to adopt road pricing, they're going to adopt a lower rate, and then there's no more road pricing we're talking about, then there's a funding system. I have to ask the majority parties, excuse the expression, be so kind and say straight out: yes, we want to use a price of between 40 and 60 kroner to achieve a traffic-regulating purpose. That's our point of view. We will give that signal locally as well, and not accept it in the future if, for example, it is. would receive an application from some city that wants NOK 12 or NOK 16. We'll say, no, there's no road pricing. It is a toll financing scheme! I'm kind of wondering what the majority of people have basically meant by what they're saying. The only ones, you ask me, who can enjoy the development here, are actually the Ministry of Finance. They've got a fantastic card in their hand. I think that in the future they will argue in Norway that road and public transport are to be financed through user payments, and that is to be done through road pricing. And the municipalities or places that have a queue problem, that want to build roads, and that don't implement this, will of course get the usual answer that they haven't exploited their tax potential, and will be asked to implement it first. And do I have any argument to say that? Yes, I have, because over the years I have been in the Committee on Transport, I have noticed how the majority have argued in relation to toll projects. Many state councils have traveled around Norway and have said that if you are going to do this, you will of course have to contribute tolls. If you don't, you won't get the project either. I see exactly the same developments in road pricing, just to a much greater extent than what we've seen up to now. And then there's this with the distribution effect. I notice with pleasure that several parties are involved. It surprises me that parties that are traditionally concerned with distribution – real distribution – do not realize that road pricing of course will have a very distorted distribution effect. And why? Of course, road pricing will hit the same groups as the Kofoed-Larsen representative. And that's a lot of fees. It is the same groups that have increased the electricity charge, and it is the same groups that have increased the annual charge on the car. The cut-off limit on driving to work has increased in the current year, and the change in the system for driving to work has also changed. All of this hits those that have the least, and the sum is going to be pretty high. Then you must not come and say that this does not have any distribution effects! Not one element alone, but the sum total of all this hits, of course, the hardest of all human beings who are in the phase of establishment, those who can afford the worst. You have to admit that that's the way it is. You'll get that effect. I am not surprised that some OECD economists actually question Norway, which is so concerned with distribution effects, but which is so heavily charging – precisely because it affects the smallest group. I have noticed that others have said that this should be compensated in other ways, over the tax slip, when buying a car, etc. My experience from this house is that it has never happened. Time and again, the same majority have said that they should increase the price of using a car, but make it cheaper to buy a car. Is there anyone in this room who's ever experienced it? It only goes one way. It is more expensive both to buy a car and to use a car, and it affects exactly the same group, namely the group that in the morning will transport kids to school, to kindergarten and pick up in the afternoon. That's the group you hit. There are no merry prospects associated with this. The only positive thing about the proposal is that we get a real and real fight in the election campaign when it comes to this. I'm glad to, because I'm quite concerned about this. I think this is an incredibly unfair system! I'm convinced that it's going to be used. I am convinced that it will be abused as a funding mechanism rather than a regulatory mechanism. I'm convinced of it! So in addition, this comes with the gas price, which the majority now says only applies to Tromsø. Oh no, just wait, and creativity will be displayed in many other places in Norway, where one can very well imagine the same solution! And then we also got the petrol tax, which everyone in this house, except SV, last year was to reduce. So now you're opening up so that it can be increased around Norway's country. Let's hope that the election suggests a different composition of the Storting, so that we get rid of this key related to road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e175	The wallet determines, says the Workers' Party often about the policies of the Advance Party. But 30–50 per cent. Passing the socialists' new bombing will be the result after the vote tonight, I think. And when you take 30-50 per cent. Passing, it soon becomes only Smoke and Hegnar who can afford to drive to and from work. Who else can afford to spend $12,000 per person. years to get to work or in kindergarten with their children? It is in the rush hour, just when people go to and from work, that the Workers' Party and Centre will have this fee. Those going down into town in the middle of the day, at 1:00 a.m. 12, to get a cup of coffee, escapes smoothly. They're the ones that don't do anything. But those who have to work have to be punished again. And then, in addition, the Workers' Party, well-helped by the Centre, takes 40 billion kroner from the drivers and delivers 10 billion kroner back to the user. Only the bomb charges, as the representative Myrli here said, would be removed when the projects were paid down, amount to NOK 2 billion per year. And toll stations, what is it? Well, it's become our new employment stations. Now they pop up all over the country, and even more come. The Committee has now received three new tolling stations. A while ago, we had the heavy-duty tyre charge, which this assembly also introduced. Even right in the City Council, it apprehended and immediately introduced it. Today we address the possibility of levying an additional fuel tax within a defined geographical area as well as road pricing. One good idea after another is greedily seized by the central parties and the Labour Party, and the only thing that delights is the Minister of Finance. He's the only one who's happy to skin the poor driver and get all this money into the book. And now you're preparing the heir to the toll station. Once a road project has been paid down, the toll station will probably not be brought down. No, then it stands there so nicely placed with a boden for collection, and then it's just to start the road pricing. And what does that mean in Oslo? It is NOK 13 today, and after the calculations made by TØI, you have to pay NOK 30-50. It's going to be a bit of a populace -- from $13 to $30-60. Road pricing is just a new word. The intention is not to float in traffic at all – I don't believe in that. If you really want to improve traffic conditions, you should first build the roads. Then you'll be able to float in traffic, and then you'll have good traffic conditions. At the same time, a great deal of rules and concessions should be removed. Today, the NSB is unable to transport people. Even the Kosmo Council of State was so honest that he said he would no longer drive a train. Rather, you can get away to private when it comes to railway operations. But what is the Workers' Party doing? Well, they get their center, and then they carry more oats to a dying horse. Getting out of the bus? No, you don't – it's dangerous! You are not allowed to drive because the railway says no. It shall have a monopoly. What is it then that a poor person is standing back with when you are going to and from work? Well, we're standing back with the car as the only option. And that, says the Working Party and the Centre, is an abomination, while in the Advance Party we have always said that the car is a good one – the car will remain a good one for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e190	The centre party has been in the plurality that has repeatedly expressed a positive opinion about the principle of road pricing, and it is true that the Stortinget has discussed the principle of road pricing several times before. For the Centre Party, an important argument to enter for road pricing is that it is a measure to be traffic-regulating and that road pricing is only relevant where it can be an instrument to reduce congestion and improve local environmental conditions. Road pricing, therefore, helps to repair rush time meat reconnaissance by helping to distribute traffic and make more people benefit from public transport. Road pricing, according to the criteria, is likely to be applicable in large cities, which means that there will be no such project beyond the country. But I also see that road pricing cannot be seen as positive for everyone. Those who depend for different reasons on using their own car for fixed periods will be able to get higher costs with the road pricing system than today and higher costs than those who can use collective transport or travel outside the rush time. Based on what I have said, it is also that a good collective offering is important as an alternative to the use of your own car. At the same time, we should not ignore the fact that those who depend on using their own car can avoid queue problems if the road pricing becomes effective, and so they can get faster. Unless carnivores can also be affected in a positive direction. It is worth noting that the bill states that road pricing should only be introduced where the municipalities and county councils in which it is in charge give their consent to implementation. At the same time, we agree that one municipality should not be able to block such an action if the other municipalities in the area it is concerned want such an action. It is also important to take into account that consent should be obtained from the Storting on a case-by-case basis, and that local authorities should have an impact on the price level and the ceiling ceiling. Price levels and ceiling stops shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. When each scheme is to be re-assessed after a maximum of 10 years, there is also a hedge for assessing any negative aspects. The use of net means of road pricing is an important element. The funds shall be used for transport purposes in the area covered by the road pricing. Transport purposes should not only be road construction, which we often think about when it comes to tolls, but for example. also public transport, road safety and environmental measures. Even if we in the Centre Party see the disadvantages that some people will experience in the introduction of road pricing, we assess the benefits of road pricing so that this measure can be used where the conditions are present and where it is desirable. So in the Center Party we see both advantages and disadvantages, and so there will often be many measures. First of all, we all want it to be abundant with state resources, so that we can avoid using tolls and road pricing. I would like to stress that when we are now in the Center Party for the law we are dealing with today – which opens up the possibility of using road pricing – it will mean, from our point of view, that we can get a lot of such projects. But we are not adopting concrete projects here today – it is an opening in the law. The specific projects have to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e207	What the Storting decides today is, in practice, a tax that we in Norway have on car transport to finance important transport measures. There's no reason to make it any other way. The advantage of this tax, in practical Norwegian, is that when we have as an alternative to waiting in an eternity queue, but have the practical solution, we know that the money goes from one purpose – the money book to the individual – to a concrete readable purpose. That's actually what makes us accept it. And what also makes the road pricing option presented to Stortinget today, which is contained in the legal text, acceptable to my eyes, is that there is money going from something locally to something else locally. It involves the taxation of cars passing through concrete hubs in traffic, for the benefit of local transport solutions. There may be collective transport solutions, but there may also be, as stated in the proposal and in the committee setting, environmental measures on the road. For example, in that part of the country we're in, there could be environmental tunnels, and it could be securing public transport. It is open that this can also be used to operate public transport, but it has been introduced, in my opinion, a timely warning indicator finger, by saying that if you can now solve the actual problems of the cows and the environment that are a prerequisite for introducing road pricing, then there is no guarantee that that money will come in afterwards. You just say that you don't get that. You have to make sure of that in a different way. Road pricing is, as I see it, in practice an instrument for regulating traffic, but it requires at the same time an alternative in a public transport solution. For my part, as an Oslo politician, I do not want to introduce this without something happening at the same time, which means that public transport has a kind of credibility. I say that even though we're in a part of the country where public transport, especially in Oslo, has a lot of weight. This applies to both T-Bahn, tram and bus, as well as to the NSB and SL systems. Although we're in a part of Norway where this actually has some weight, I choose to express myself this way. At the same time, it is not necessary to look so far, because precisely in Oslo and Akershus, it can be observed that the NHO has gone out these days and almost demanded that the road procurement be extended in some way in order to ensure important transport projects. It's known that this is the way to secure the measures. I take note that someone is doing this, because I think it's vital that it happens. Mine and Left’s form of road pricing I will define as ‘road pricing light’. I choose to say it that way, because there was someone who at some point in the debate on road pricing here in Norway, so that you would almost have charges differentiated per. running 100 meters, miles or what it was. I don't see it that way. For me, road pricing is a system that can be linked to some suggested version of what we've been used to and known as bombings. They have to be arranged and technically designed differently from those we now have, but connected to them. Then we get a differentiation in the price of rush time, and maybe also a differentiation on weekends and at night. In the bombing systems we have, we already have a type of road pricing light, light, light two places. We have it in the deal package we've made on the North-Jear, with one rate in the rush hour and another rate outside it, and we have it in a slightly smaller version, in terms of price variation, in the ring that exists around Trondheim. The phenomenon is not unknown. When I look at this as a political practitioner, I am committed to tools to get solutions. I think what we get on the table in Odelstinget today is a tool in addition to others to get solutions. None of these solutions happen without there being built coalitions locally that recognize that this is necessary, so we come to the point where we can look at people and say: Do you want to stand in your fair place in your fair queue and promote your fair claim, or do you want a solution that you can accept? In Norway, we know that we have often had to accept solutions that represent this form of taxation on transport, in order to achieve a promise. I do not want to wrap up the positions I have taken. I think it's going to be all wrong. Let me just say that in other parts of the world there is a debate about road pricing that is more intense than what we have in our country. This is a theme of different places on the continent. What we're getting ourselves now – if I'm going to rewrite today's bombing system and put it into it – is a tool where, through a modern form of tolling, we can introduce time differentiation and at the same time have more freedom to spend money for some purposes other than what we've done before. But if we go back and e.g. look at today's system around Oslo, we'll see that also in that system there are some percentages of the amount of collective betting. Looking at the practical content of the systems that have been developed, I do not think that the leap from today's systems in Norway to the systems that this legislation opens up, used wisely by Norwegian politicians, is so great. But it provides greater flexibility and a greater freedom of action from the left's point of view. That's why we're going in for it. But our conditions are that it should be used in a local situation, where we have collective solutions that at the same time provide security and strength in terms of the alternatives we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e225	It's not common to give praise from the Storting's pulpit, but it's going to get Dørum. He basically says what he means, and that's good. I have two questions that I want Dørum to answer. What I've been asking for in the hall, but I'm sure I don't get an answer to, is the principle attitude towards road pricing, the means to be used, the price to be paid, and whether you really think you should have a restriction on traffic, and whether that can have a consequence on how high the price will be. But that's not what I was going to ask. If you accept the principle that queues are to be praised, that means, for example: that the left sees to it that public transport is also to be praised? If you first accept the principle that it is the queue that is to be priced, should you also put increased costs on public transport in the rush hour? I'm just asking, because I think it's very important to clarify this. I think I know the answer, but there's nothing about this in the majority's comments in the vote. The next question is: Does not Dørum think it is a paradox that, as a strong justification for road pricing, it is necessary to increase public transport, when, in fact, if I do not remember completely wrong, only the Right and Left who, when dealing with the national transport plan, went in to increase the level of public transport? What does Dørum think of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e236	Sometimes you get friendly questions that allow you to give neat answers. There are only some in Norway who have filed a striking drop-off request where they thought that public transport would be priced out in the rush hour, and that was one of the companies within the NSB at some point, under the motto: We have too many passengers, let's get rid of them and make it more expensive in the rush time. I personally think that this was a pretty strong rejection request, and I would like to say it from the Parliament's pulpit. I noticed that the course was corrected quickly. Collective transport, for social and environmental reasons, is supposed to take the transport that we do not want to take out through the car. Otherwise the car gives us a unique freedom, there is no reason to underestimate – it is a great blessing and gives freedom. But on the way to work and in our rush hour, especially around our big cities, the car itself creates social costs related to pollution. That's the cost we actually put at the price, and then we reward public transport at the same time. So it's some kind of whip and carrot, and that's why I also stressed that it has to be a simultaneity in the grip. I will not philosophize over the debate on the national transport plan that is now behind us, nor about the fact that some parties suddenly got a lot of money right after, that is what belongs to election years. And let's put it this way, let's take it in the kindest sense that people actually believe in public transport and interpret it so that there's someone who suddenly comes to realize that what they might have forgotten. I think that if we're going to have some chance – I'm going to be very concrete – the Storting must, if you want to save yourself in this part of the country, for example. all the development projects in the world on the road, taking in the fact that the Oslo T-Bahn transports 70 million passengers, and you can't refinance it without the cooperation of the state, municipalities and road users. The alternative of letting it fall due just makes the pressure on the transportation projects appear, and then people with great OPS projects that can solve everything on the road, and then we've undermined public transport further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e245	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e248	I doubt that we can solve the queue problems on the roads around our biggest cities by just expanding the road system. So I think we need to think anew, and in this context, road pricing appears to be an exciting tool. By using road pricing locally as one of several measures in local transport packages, one will be able to find effective – and not least exciting – ways to solve the problem of queues and to strengthen the provision of collective services in metropolitan areas. In this way, the local environment will also improve. I am therefore pleased that the majority of Storting seems to adhere to the main principles of the bill. The legislative proposal includes a general framework for the use of road pricing and allows for the introduction of road pricing in a defined area if circumstances so require. The aim shall be traffic management and it shall not be appropriate to use the instrument without appearing to be efficient and appropriate with a view to reducing congestion and improving local environmental conditions. According to the proposal, road pricing, as a general rule, is to be used only when there is a connection between the municipalities and counties concerned, by means of local decisions on a case-by-case basis. However, it is open for the Ministry of Transport to propose the imposition of road pricing in very special situations. The implementation of a road pricing scheme shall, on a case-by-case basis, be subject to the consent of the Storting. I have registered that a majority of the Committee on Transport in the committee position in the case points out that such a state order can only take place in exceptional cases. This is also my intention, and I would therefore like to stress that there must be very special circumstances if the State is to impose the use of road pricing. The proposal does not take a position on the price level. This needs to be determined by the specific design of the individual scheme, which will be an important part not least of the local treatment, and will be included in the submission to the Stortinget. In this context, inter alia: distribution effects have to be central. Rules shall be laid down on the setting of tariffs, additional charges and the allocation of net income. The size will be briefed on the content of the regulations as soon as they are drawn up. Work on the regulations will begin as soon as the Stortinget has dealt with and adopted the bill. The costs of setting up and operating a road pricing scheme shall be borne by revenue. Net income shall be allocated between the country and the local government sector, by 50 pst. on each. The State may determine another key if an equal distribution would result in obvious bias. The distribution within the local government sector needs to be further assessed on a case-by-case basis in the light of the transport tasks to be resolved. The final distribution of income between the different levels of government takes place through the examination by the Storting of each proposal on road pricing. According to the proposal, the net income from a road pricing scheme is to be earmarked for transport purposes, including: for the development and operation of public transport in the area concerned. No restrictions are imposed on the type of transport use. It must be a prerequisite for the design of the collective offer to be a good alternative. A central aspect is thus the use of funds from road pricing to investment and the operation of public transport. I have also noticed that a majority of the Committee on Transport is asking the Ministry of Transport to facilitate the use of local extra fuel charges for the operation of public transport, and to promote its own case if necessary. For my part, I would like to stress that there is no room for any extensive use of this. But locally, there is a clear desire to do so through, among other things. Tromsø's decisions, and because this is so evident through a local initiative by Tromsø's side, we will look into this and come back to the Stortinget with it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e277	Governments were in a sentence to the extent of this with the distribution of net income, how these should be distributed. And this is going to be a little bit hypothetical, and maybe the Council won't answer it. But how long does the Council of State think that the Ministry of Finance will sit and look at it if you introduce road pricing, as we have to assume, and one gets no traffic regulation in this area? It's about a lot of money, for example. In Oslo and in Bergen, it can actually come up in a billion. How long does the Council of State think that the Ministry of Finance will sit and see that municipalities thus have a tax law that they can use, before the Ministry of Finance says that no, this is a large part of the fiscal section that we want to control? This is going to be purely theoretical, but I have to say that I'm afraid of this. I am very afraid that at the end of the day this will only be another way that the Ministry of Finance comes in, and that you will not be allowed to keep the money even if you now in a way make a decision of principle that these should be used in the transport sector. All the experience suggests that if this revenue becomes as significant as it can be, it will not be caused because it has effects in the Norwegian economy, and then, of course, this house and, partly, the Ministry of Finance will also have control over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e282	Let me first refer to what appears both in the proposal and in the majority position, namely that the use of road pricing requires real local support. Without such a local connection, it will of course be impossible to introduce road pricing, because I think there are more than those who could – let's say – in a single operation imagine doing so, who would think about the next choice. I actually think it would be completely impossible for this hall to ‘overrule’ a local resistance to road pricing of a general nature. Then there is a precondition in the bill that every ten years you have to have a review of the road pricing system. The point of this review is that if the road pricing scheme has led to a good development of public transport and has resulted in perhaps, among other things, It has reduced the problem of accessibility, and it is hoped that there will be no longer any justification for road pricing due to problems of accessibility, and there will no longer be any possibility of using it. This revision will of course also need to be based on local assessments and decisions in the same way as the establishment of road pricing. And if you get local decisions saying that this ends, I would say in this context too that it would be impossible to ‘overrule’ the local municipalities. In practice, it will be impossible to have this 'overrule' effect under one clear premise, and that is to believe that local democracy works and that it is believed that this room has respect for local democracy. And for my part, I have faith in both.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e290	Governments use many fine arguments, such as better environment, reduced air pollution, better traffic flow, local desires, etc. We hear such arguments again each time he intends to impose some new charge. I wonder why you really don't go into the root of the problem, which is a public-led collective system that doesn't work, as well as bad roads. That's the core of the problem today. How has the Council of State thought that this poor collective system should deal with all passengers if, against all assumption, all the drivers some day would park their cars and use public transport? What would the Council of State do, and how would he then solve this when all is to be governed by the public? We see today that it doesn't work – it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. Everything's bad, it's old and miserable. And those who want to, don't get a concession, they won't be allowed to compete with what's public. How would you solve this if you were to suddenly experience that everyone went to public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e297	Let me start by saying that I can to some extent understand that when you use words like improving the environment and improving public transport, it might be a little strange for the representative Nistad, but at least this is our main objectives through, among other things. this instrument. Let me also say that when you say that public transport doesn't work, it's a truth with a lot of modifications. Let me first point out the positive. In Oslo, the T-Bahn transports about 70 million passengers every year. So it's 70 pst. of the central working trips in Oslo are carried out collectively. Oslo is, in fact, one of the cities in Europe with the highest share of centre-oriented work trips collectively. Then you can be rhetorical enough to ask the opposite question: Do you think about all of them trying to drive a car? I do not want that, and I sincerely hope that others do not want it to happen either. Then I don't have any problems admitting that we have major challenges on the collective side. But it is precisely the ones we want to tackle with many instruments, such as: in the case of a few cities, road pricing may be relevant in order to strengthen the financial basis for public transport and to ensure that people are actually transferred from road to public transport. And that's not exactly what the representative Nistad suggested, that it's not relevant, for example. to do something on the bus side. The representative of Nistad knows very well that the government proposed an embellishment of the concession policy in the case of express buses, and that fortunately we got the approval of the Storting. That's another example. But we will not least come back to this in the context of the NSB in a short time, and we will put in place a number of measures to strengthen public transport, as well as road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e306	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e309	Road pricing solves traffic and environmental problems. Road pricing, differentiated toll rates – it costs more in the rush time than elsewhere in the day, usually free at other times, and there will be a very good difference. Bergen and Trondheim have tried this with differentiated toll rates. But the prerequisite for road pricing, as I said earlier, was a good and reasonable collective offer. And the earring was going to happen locally, and I think that actually means a lot. I have also received feedback on this matter. And then there's a question: how much does public transport cost today on routes that we think about in this context, for example. into Oslo? How much does public transport cost in relation to what it costs to drive through the bombing by car? It actually costs $13 by car. I guess it costs twice as much with public transport. Is that right? Is it true that the car should be cheaper than driving collectively the same routes? That can't be right, so there's obviously a job to do here. What measures could the Right consider to contribute to a solution to the problems of the cows and the environment in the major cities? Oddvard Nilsen was concerned that the locals would also contribute to the collective offer of road pricing. I actually think some of them aren't so sorry for that. But here too, however, the State still needs a lot more resources to get the better and cheaper collective provision that we want to solve some of the problems in this sector. And then there was talk about the involvement of public transport in the work of the national transport plan. In fact, the Christian People's Party proposed a big message about public transport in order to get a broad assessment of the entire complex area of public transport, and the aim of this big message would therefore be a strong growth in public transport. It was downhearted. It didn't get a majority, unfortunately. That is why we presented our own plan for the effort on public transport that we believe is right and important in order to address the environmental and road safety problems we have. We did the same in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party in the current year's budget, adding extra funds for just collective transport. And it can be exciting after the election to see how and where we're going to be able to get a majority to bet on this collective transport that all the parties really say they're busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e318	In a known style, the Progress Party and the representative, Thore Aksel Nistad, in the debate today, have in general been concerned with finding that this is an extra tax on the drivers, which I believe was the concept he used, highlighting everything the drivers pay in taxes, taxes and tolls. It will be nice to see the main resistance of the Progress Party to tolls, taxes and taxes in the road sector when the Stortinget will decide on the government's proposals for partial toll financing of Rv 4 through Uppland in the spring. As far as I know, there may be an interesting discussion when the matter comes to consideration in Stortinget. But we might be able to get back to that debate. The debate today really reminds me quite a lot – and I have been sitting and taking note of a number of arguments that have been used by the pulpit – about a debate we had quite early in this big period, the debate on opening up a local charge for the use of high-speed tyres. It was a violent discussion ahead of that debate, and it was produced as if it were almost to be imposed a heavy-duty tyre charge across the country. Everyone was now going to get a high-deck charge, no one would be allowed to drive with a high-deck tyre. As far as I know, it is only Oslo who has introduced a heavy-duty tyre charge after the Stortinget opened in order for a local person to adopt it. In Oslo, the fee is to be removed because one is up to the objective of 80 pst. of the cars were to drive with non-rigid tyres. All the dangers that were launched at the time the discussion went on about how difficult it was to go over to non-rigid tyres, are now gone, and one has, as I said, reached the goal of 80 pst. It was unpopular to open up for someone to do it – of course. But if it had been true that the Storting hadn't opened up to it when, for example. Oslo wanted to introduce it, and I remember well – with the Right Town Council at the head? I draw parallels to this matter we have today for treatment. And we can stick to Oslo, the Oslo area is the area in the country where we have the biggest traffic problems in the Rushida. As far as I recall, the former Right Agency for Transport, Merete Agerbak-Jensen, was also a strong supporter of introducing road pricing, because she saw it as a tool to help solve the rush time problems in traffic. If someone in Oslo and Akershus, or in the Trondheims or Bergen area, wants to use road pricing, should we not, in the same way that we discussed in the peak-deck debate, open the door for a local person to put it into use? Of course we should. And that's what we're doing today. We're opening up where a local wants to use such tools. At least I have no plans from Stortinget's pulpit to launch the idea of cities or urban areas that should use road pricing. It has to be decided by the towns and cities. But at the same time, I think it would have been cowardly if we hadn't opened it up in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e327	It wasn't really meant to take the word again, but when you kind of get directly called up, you get to do it. In short, how we view this with public transport: I have a good conscience. It will not be unknown to the Committee that it was actually the Right who launched the idea of the Youth Card in the 2001 budget. I see that the Council of State has been out afterwards and said that it is a good idea – great, great. We are the ones who in some way have also said that we should get quality contracts started, so that an increased payment was made if you were able to get hold of several passengers. It was also we who in the national transport plan spent money on public transport. I agree with the representative of Dørum and believe it is not possible to get a proper handle on Norwegian public transport if you do not see on the one hand how to make better use of the money, and on the other hand realize that it will cost a few kroner. We're willing to do that. And no matter what happens after the election, we're going to be at that position. But there's a set of tools you have to put in. I don't think we can find a solution by choosing one, and we're willing to discuss this. But in this particular area, I have a pretty good conscience in relation to the position the party has taken. In the case of Oslo and spiked tyres, on which the representative Sverre Myrli was in, it is right that the Right was against. Now, alternatives never prove themselves here in the world, but we'll see what Bergen achieves on high tires without a high tyre charge. It's not certain that you're always going to have to whip. That might be and yes, I think people are reasonable. You drive real information and tell people that this makes sense, my basic attitude is that I think people act environmentally friendly. But then one must also in a way stimulate to go in that direction. Obviously, there may be different political positions. I believe that, and I believe that this can be done very well. When it comes to road pricing related to Oslo, I think it's an interesting discussion. One of the discussions that are going to come about road pricing is, of course, who really pays? Take, for example: the place my dialect says I come from, so Ashøybrua today has a toll tariff of 60 kroner – 100 kroner back and forth, North Hordlandsbrua has the same thing and Osterøybrua has the same thing. A young man or woman who has paid tolls throughout the tolling period on that bridge will have paid 185,000 kroner in tolls plus interest when the bridge is paid down. Should they also meet with road pricing for 60 kroner afterwards? Can't you see that the whole assumption that was underlying, that they were once supposed to be able to drive in for free because they have paid so much money, is gone? Can't you see that the whole system, the whole trust in the political system, will crumble away because you feel cheated? That's one of my main reasons why I'm against road pricing as such because it's a tool that's going to be used to limit traffic, but that's also going to be a source of income. And it's only possible for the big cities to introduce it, and it's those who live outside the big cities, who have to pay, and they've already paid both on the road and on the bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e342	I think it is right at the end of the debate to provide a case-by-case information from the Stockholm pulpit that concerns Oslo. It is a fact that when it was negotiated between the parties that now have city councils in Oslo, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, one of the issues that was put forward was a very reinforced commitment to public transport, first by taking in a maintenance seat and then investing in new wagon material. This led to a race that also took part in the Workers' Party and SV, which led to a wide collection about this. It's basically a good news, because it tells us that the will to strengthen public transport in one of the country's densely populated areas is present, that it is carried properly. I think that has been said since the debate on road pricing as an instrument and the idea of an instrument have stressed the need to strengthen public transport. It's also been a will to do that. I'm not going to comment on what could have been said locally about it, except that I think it's right to say it. So that means that political constellations that one doesn't always trust to do this separately, they do it together. And the untraditional thing in that the Right, as described by others, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, who would, went into this solution, it triggered a constructive political race. People have to enjoy that race, but a race for political solutions is not the same as being funded. I would therefore like to say that one of the most constructive things about the part of the country we are currently in is that the NHO in Oslo and Akershus has gone out and said that we need to pay for road transport because we need to secure many of the projects mentioned in the attitude of the Committee on Transport on the National Transport Plan. So it may well be that the tools we've been talking about today will come there, and I took the floor to say that some of the prerequisites for creating solutions are that the solution will be there locally. I also said that such a willingness to solve is really about the fact that more groupings are willing to bear the burden together. In the political landscape I know from the capital, it's like this right now, and it's a good news for those who live here. And then we get to hope that we can deliver the results whether we sit here or there in the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e351	Several have not asked for the word on case No.1 [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e365	The Ministry of Transport put forward proposals for amendments to the Law of 18 June 1965 no. 4 on road traffic. In the proposition, the following subjects are addressed: Proposal for a new Section 13(a), a ban on equipment that may alert or interfere with traffic control.Proposal to amend the first paragraph of Section 17, obligation to carry registration cards to a trailer. As a background to the bill on new Section 13a, it is pointed out that the Ministry of Justice has registered that ever-new types of warning equipment are now available for use in motor vehicles. Equipment warning of radar checks has been in use for a longer period of time, and equipment has also been registered to indicate speed measurements carried out by laser. In 1998, new equipment was introduced on the market that interferes with laser light in laser speed indicators so that it does not receive qualified signals. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left and Left consider that the use of such equipment undermines the police's control activities and is concerned that such equipment helps notorious drivers avoid punishment. The majority assume that the acquisition of such equipment is mainly motivated by a desire to break the speed limits without risk of discovery. The majority also suggests that serious infringements of the speed limits are highly dangerous to traffic and that such infringements may result in both fines, prison sentences and withdrawal of the driving licence. This is the majority, i.e. The Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left therefore support a ban on such warning equipment in motor vehicles. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party point out that the introduction of a ban on equipment likely to alert or disrupt traffic control will lead to large and difficult police control tasks. The party to the progress indicates that, even if the possession of such equipment is prohibited, it will still be possible to purchase it abroad or from illegal producers and importers. We also show that it will still be possible to notify about control via mobile phone or data, and that there are now up-to-date lists of controls via the Internet and alert systems over the mobile network. SINTEF is also sceptical about the introduction of this ban. The Party of Progress is also sceptical of all prohibitions and control tasks to which it is really impossible to deal. This is a measure which unfortunately weakens the respect of law and order of the general human being. The party of progress is therefore of the opinion that this ban, in addition to a number of other recently introduced bans, will lead the police task more to finding radar alerts than to focus on what is really the big danger in traffic. These members will therefore reject the proposal for a new Section 13(a).
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e402	The aim of the new Section 13 is to improve road safety and traffic controls are therefore a key instrument in road safety work. If drivers can travel on the roads without having to take account of police control activities, road safety could be reduced for all on the roads. Against this background, a new Section 13a of the Road Traffic Act is proposed, prohibiting the possession and use of equipment that could alert or disrupt traffic control. That this is necessary, in fact, says something about the attitude of some drivers towards driving a car – otherwise it would hardly have happened – and not least about the lack of respect for laws and regulations. So there is clearly a need for help with the assignment at this point, help with the attitudes of drivers. I think that a new Section 13 should be combined with a strong commitment to awareness-raising work in driving training. Maybe we can get more respect for that law and the rules we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e409	These are two things that may not be so important that you have to say so much about them. But I'd like to justify why Right will vote against Section 13. I just think that you're going to get into a technological discussion, a technological interface that's going to be absolutely impossible. I am absolutely convinced that technology is going to rage at such a speed that it becomes almost impossible to practice such a law. So much is happening in this area related to mobile phones and everything in a car – radio or whatever it might be – that the law, as I said, is going to be almost impossible to practice, and that means that you still have to change it. Of course, I fully agree with the representative of Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen, and the fact that we are against this paragraph does not mean, of course, that the Right does not want to keep the speed limits in Norway, but I think we are just going to meet this again – this is what we have to repair next time – and then it is in many ways much better to deploy resources elsewhere. We've known that several more visible police along the roads have a far, far greater effect than the cosmetic thing that we're doing here, which I think we're going to have to do again. In the case of the last case, which goes on where to keep a registration certificate for a trailer, I have to say that I have never experienced it as the huge problem, and in that way I was impressed by the work done by the department. There is nothing else to say but that I actually thought that this registration certificate should be kept in the car, but I have been wrong there. I thought everyone was of that opinion, but I'm just recording that you have to make a difficult case of something that I've thought was pretty good, but it's obviously someone who hasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e422	As regards the proposal for Section 13(a), I would like to point out that 29 of the 32 hearing bodies are in favour of the proposal. This may have to be seen in the light of the fact that there has been some debate in the media about radar warning equipment and that questions have been raised as to whether it is really possible to allow such equipment acquired and used for the clear purpose of avoiding being subject to speed checks. So just to substantiate a good legal opinion, I think it's right to promote this proposal, and I'm happy to endorse it. I want to be honest to say that I also think that this is going on cell phone alerts, because in many ways it goes on one of the same. If you want to see it from the right end, it can be said that to some extent it is slowing down, because you have problems with being so exact about cell phone alerts, and that you are therefore largely dependent on the way in which it is currently controlled. But anyway, this isn't just okay, and I agree with the committee leader that this is part of the technological development that we're going to see more of. We have chosen not to propose anything at this point now, because it will be to intervene deeply into the freedom to hold and use mobile phones. It would be totally hopeless to suggest that it should be prohibited to keep e.g. mobile phone in a car. However, in the case of radar warning equipment, it is suggested that such equipment should be purchased and used. I think it is very right and important that we can then introduce a clear ban on it. With regard to the concern of the representative Nistad that the police have a lot to do, I understand that the police are relatively quick to find out if such equipment is in use. The whole point is that you will then discover that a speed control is impossible. So a little about Section 17. On the contrary, I recognise that this is hardly the most sceptical proposal that this government has made – or is going to put forward – but I would like to say to the representative Nilsen: there is a difference in faith and certainty!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e441	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e485	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e496	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Right and the Advance Party to also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e509	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e539	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e587	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03-lower-2.ana.ud1298e596	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
