ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e25	The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e28	On behalf of the representatives Jan Petersen, Sverre J. Hoddevik and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals to review the rules of the Working Environment Act on overtime so that the rules become more flexible and adapt to a modern working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e33	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e45	The Storting representatives John I. Alvheim and Lodve Solholm promote in Document No. 8:15 the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a scheme of State Senior Officials’. Proposal providers refer to several deficiencies in the care of the elderly, not least too little capacity in the case of nursing homes. They point out that we have a complex and comprehensive pension system. The Committee points out that many older people and their relatives find it difficult to find out about the legislation on the care of the elderly, pension entitlements and social security benefits. Many do not seem to be able to reach the public utility when they need help. In 1991, the Stortinget decided that all municipalities and county councils should set up old age councils. They shall be advisory to the municipality/municipality and shall have all matters relating to the living conditions of the elderly for treatment. The Elder Councils can themselves address matters relating to the elderly. The proposers are sceptical about the work of the elderly councils. The Committee recalls that the elderly councils are currently under evaluation. It refers to the establishment of service offices in all municipalities to provide information and guidance on services and benefits that all residents require, including older people. In 1998, the central government took the initiative to test two ombudsman schemes — senior agents and caregivers. The latter provides assistance to all age groups. The ombudsman system is being tried out in Bergen, which is a big city, and Bodø and Porsanger, who have fewer inhabitants. In addition, an intermunicipal solution is tested with the municipalities of Lwagal, Gågebostad and Åseral. The project has the name ‘Speaking with the elderly’ and will last for four years – until 2003. During the consultation in the Committee, both the State Council of Senior Citizens and the Norwegian Association of Pensioners expressed the wish that the project be completed before a decision is taken on the establishment of a permanent senior Ombudsman. An overall committee has agreed to this, and a unanimous committee is therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a case showing the results of ongoing attempts at various ombudsmen’s arrangements and, in this context, to come back to proposals for a possible ombudsman’s scheme for the elderly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e73	By law on health care in municipalities, the state has imposed responsibility on municipalities for the care of the elderly. Then the state must have a self-reliance that the intentions of the law are followed up. The lack of parental care in Norway for many years has shown that the State has not been conscious of its responsibilities in this area. With all the complex legislation underpinning the everyday life of pensioners and sick elderly people, it is necessary to set up a government representative for the elderly. Such an agent shall ensure that the care of the elderly in the different municipalities meets the requirements imposed by the law on them in this area. The Ombudsman should also be able to provide guidance and information on services and benefits to which senior citizens are entitled or entitled in different situations. The Ombudsman must also be responsible for promoting the interests of the elderly vis-à-vis both public and private bodies and for monitoring the development of the living conditions of the elderly. There is an overall committee which indicates that it is important to complete and evaluate the testing scheme with representatives of care and the elderly before deciding whether to set up an older representative scheme. The Progress Party will support this and will therefore come back later with a possible proposal for an elderly representative once this evaluation has been carried out. The Progress Party is pleased that a unanimous committee has promoted the proposal that is on the table today, that the Stortinget asks the Government to promote a matter of Ombudsmanship for the elderly after the ongoing trial and evaluation has been completed. I am looking forward to that matter coming to Stortinget, and that, if necessary, such an arrangement should be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e82	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15.ana.ud236e90	The size goes to voting.
