ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e44	The representative Steinar Bastisen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e52	I would like to make a proposal that the Stortinget should be presented with a legislative proposal to prevent discrimination against minorities in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e57	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e60	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to make a proposal to replace compulsory training in the smooth running of heavier vehicles with risk prevention and fair training.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e79	The National Audit Office's inquiry into the levying of taxes is based on data from 15 municipalities. The starting point was the residual tax from the 1996 income year, and a total of 932 individual cases with a balance of more than DKK 10 000 were analysed in relation to the date of implementation of the call for proposals and the measures used. The purpose of the study was to carry out an analysis of the call for proposals of tax collectors with regard to the use of different call for proposals, in the light of the provisions of the tax collection instructions. During the work on this matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Committee received a letter from the Municipal Council of Local Authorities, which did not agree with the critical assessments given by the Riksrevision in its study. The KS considered that the joint collection of taxes and employers' taxes, which are levied by municipal tax collectors, is of high quality, with more than 99 pst. are collected by countervailed taxes and charges. Furthermore, KS considered that a report from ECON Centres for Economic Analysis shows that the levying of residual taxes is of the highest quality in the small municipalities. KS was not aware that any other country that compares naturally has a better quality of tax collection. The Committee, on a proposal from the rapporteur-general, Carl I. Hagen, who has been prevented from attending this meeting today, took the initiative, after having received the reply of the National Audit Office on the objections of the Municipal Councils’ Central Association, to a meeting of the Committee to discuss together the various questions relating to the Riksrevision’s study. The Committee’s opinion refers to the correspondence that the Committee had and that this follows as an annex. However, in the event of an incursion, the attachments are not included, President, and these are handed over. As indicated in the unanimous opinion, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the tax havens still constitute significant amounts. It is therefore a potential for improvement in tax collection, despite the fact that much has improved. The remaining percentage has been declining in recent years, for which tax collection in municipalities is to be credited. One problem, however, is that there have been variations between municipalities in the implementation and priority of the tax call itself. Of course, this is not good. Or as the committee says: ‘The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s view that discrimination against taxpayers is unfortunate. Different call strategies should be related to the individual case and not to the individual municipality.’ However, it is equally important to stress that the tax collection directive allows for the use of judgement. With a decentralised organisational model, different call strategies will also be necessary and appropriate. As a result of the National Audit Office’s investigation, the Tax Directorate will, as the Ministry of Finance has informed, follow up on several of the matters referred to through its professional instruction authority. One can therefore conclude that there will be an even better organisation of the tax collection function.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e103	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1829]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e117	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the President’s introduction be set at 10 minutes and that the other speakers have up to 5 minutes of speaking time each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e124	The issues we are about to deal with today have been raised as a matter of concern by the Committee following the claims made under the NRK's "Fire Point" programme on 17 October 2000, which have been followed up by other media. The Committee refers to the correspondence between departments and to the examination by the Committee of loans granted by the SND to Pandetor. The Committee has received letters and reports from the Ministry of Industry, which have obtained a distribution link with Pandestor-saka and five other similar SND exposures in North-West Russia during the same period. This is attached to the setting as Annex 1. The North-West Russia Fund includes, inter alia: Murmansk County and Arkhangelsk County, the purpose of which is to strengthen cooperation between Norwegian industry and enterprises in the region. The Committee refers to point 8 of the Council of State's assessments, which is reflected in the configuration in its soundness. It addresses the question of stability and procedure and also has some critical comments on the way in which the SND, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have dealt with some of the issues. The Committee has noted that the Council of State will launch a specific review of state involvement in North-West Russia and a general review of SND’s foreign activities. The Committee believes that this case has shown that there is a need for such a review. Since Pandetor is one of the most widely mentioned companies, I would like to comment on this. Pandetor is a Norwegian company with the address Trøgstad. They were granted a countrywide risk loan of 2.7 million upon application. NOK 150 million for the period 1996 to 1996; The chairman of the company was Jan Balstad, the impending member of the board of directors of SND. The application was handled administratively in relation to the regulations, and the SND contact person in Pandestor was the daily tenant of Vidar Kölner. It is clear from the case file that Jan Balstad was not involved in the processing of loan applications, and that SND has clarified that there was no informal contact with this case either. The loan was to be used to finance forest machinery that was to be used for a cause — the Russian company Agrointorg, which had established itself in Arkhangelsk one year earlier. The aim was to further develop forestry and forestry activities in this area. Pandetor had a share capital of SEK 140,000 and a board of three northern and three Russians. Daily leaders, Vidar Kölner, have previously collaborated with Agrointorg on this matter. Agrointorg is a Moscow City Government company responsible for importing and distributing food to Moscow and surrounding regions, and it has also established its own forest department. There is no doubt that the risk in the project was very high, both because of weak capital base in Pandestor and because it was considered very risky to be involved in projects in North-West Russia, with which SND had no experience. The investment fund for North-West Russia was not established at that time and has nothing to do with the project. However, there was great and positive note, political and professional, about the area, hoping for an active role for Norway in the context of a positive development in Russia. The decision for SND’s involvement in the project was that the local actors themselves were willing to give 50 p.m., by this company and by the Arkhangelsk state. A one-year loan was granted, with a repayment of more than five years. It turned out that Pande major had problems with keeping the payment plan as a result of problems with the operation of the company, also of an organisational nature. The company has tried several times to bring in additional capital, but has not succeeded in this. The reason why the SND did not receive the compulsory collection of the loan or have made the guarantee current is that there is no capital base to pick up. The company is still working on strengthening capital. SND is not involved in the work on this. The instalments due until now have been paid in accordance with the agreement and adjusted payment schedule. On the SND side, it has already been said that the credit ratings could be better in retrospect. In managing the application, the market situation for wood was not considered to be the critical part of the project. It was at this time a little problematic to get rid of wood also from Russia in the Norwegian market, and the demand was very large. The critical was considered to be Pandetor's economic base and the uncertainty that has always been associated with business activity in Russia. Following the NRK’s presentation in ‘Fire Point’, there are some major media and newspaper representatives who have identified the possibility of camaraderie, instability, politically motivated proceedings, etc. in previous phases of this matter. The documentation of Jan Balstad's position as a member of the board of directors of the SND and the board of directors of Pandestor shows that he was never in contact with the SND when the application was misguided. The SND’s customer service providers ‘grow’ the board members when handling applications, and there is a high level of knowledge about the problem of stability. If the application had been handled by the board of SND, Balstad would of course have gone out as a stowaway. This is in line with the SND guidelines for its work. The SND’s main government and the 17 local governments are composed of politically active people in the cities and districts and represent different parts of Norwegian business. It may not be possible for people taking on duties in the state as drivers of economic development to be disqualified from searching for publicly available tools. There must be an indisputable requirement that the rules for stability be followed up, what is done in the SND, and also are done in this particular case. In my view, it's SND's job to make loans that carry a high risk -- that's one of the points of SND. The risk profile is underlined by the fund's obligation to lose 25 pst. on this type of loan, just to be able to fulfil its function. The current loan is 2.7 million. kr was so small that it was not to be submitted to the board, where Balstad was a member, but was to be decided purely administratively. I did not think there was anything in the program ‘Fire Point’ that underpins or suggests that Balstad should have exercised pressure on the administration, or that there was an irresponsible judgement in relation to this type of risk loan. Nor did the programme show that it should have been influenced by political pressure, as some politicians have claimed. In the evening post of 5 December 2000, there was an article entitled ‘Norwegian companies dare not bet in Russia’. The article states that SND currently does not actually provide loans and grants to projects in North-West Russia. We know that in 1996 an investment fund was created that now accommodates approx. 150 million. NOK, so that the SND could go into the owner’s side. Only 2.2 million of the 150 million. kr in the investment fund is located. They have gone to two small projects – a bakery in Murmansk, Pomor, and Kola Construction, the supplier of somethin’s equipment. We know that Pomor Invest is bankrupt. The reason is the devaluation of the ruble and they increase the rent. Thus, SND has lost some money in these projects. Businesses in Russia are still inconspicuous and the organisation difficult for businesses. Another important reason why it is difficult to establish itself in Russia is the relatively strict requirements imposed by the State on its own funds. State Investment Fund for North-West Russia of 150 million. kr is almost untouched because Norwegian companies do not dare to invest in the region. I am so free that I want to ask the Minister of Industry for further work to assess whether the requirements for risk capital and equity towards the companies that might expect to establish themselves in Russia are too strict. The Committee shall otherwise refer to its observations in the vote and the matter shall be recorded in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e168	The matter of SND’s loans to Pandetor was raised on its own initiative by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The background was, as we know, statements in the media that could indicate that the matter was not properly dealt with. There are several factors that make this matter serious: SND is a special-law company that manages instruments for several departments, i.e. state resources. And state resources should be managed properly and properly. SND is exempt from the Administrative and Public Administration Act. The fact that the company is not subject to the same official controls as other public bodies suggests that the company should be particularly vigilant in complying with the rules of the procedure and of the rules of the procedure. It is important for confidence in public bodies to comply with general rules on stability and instability. It is extremely unfortunate for trust in the administration if doubts arise as to whether things have gone right. The Pandetor case should have been dealt with in the board of SND, both because one of the board members' names was related to the matter, because there was great uncertainty about the involvement, and because the matter was fundamentally important in relation to the purpose section. As stated in the committee setting, a review of the SND's treatment of stability issues shall be initiated immediately. That's good. The case suggests that there is a need for it. SND shall promote economic activity in Norway. To participate outside the borders of the country, it must be shown that the aid will lead to the creation of value in the country. Therefore, questions may be raised as to whether the aid granted to Pandestor falls within the scope of the SND projects eligible for the purpose paragraph. The case shows that there is a need for a review of state exposures to North-West Russia and of SND’s foreign activity, as the Council of State has also announced. SND's own case manager in the industrial division and SND's legal department were not satisfied with the safety of the project. Both the Export Finance and the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit considered the guarantee to be uncertain. It is critical that SND did not take greater account of these objections. The risk loan was granted by general, across the negative attitude of the case manager. SND has not been able to obtain a signed protocol from the January/February 1996 meeting, where it appears that an intention agreement was reached with Agrointorg, the Russian partner of Pandetor. SND did not have a full overview of the ownership conditions in Pandestor before the payment took place. There are therefore several issues that have not been adequately dealt with in this case. The Committee's proceedings have highlighted these issues. The Christian People's Party hopes that this review will lead to better practices in the future and that the procedures will also be followed in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e191	We can at least state that the SND in this case has not done its homework. It is clear that after the focus that has been on this matter, we have all learned lessons. But what is important, as this case has revealed after the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee took it up on its own initiative, is, when we see how SND operates, the review that the Council of State is going to carry out, which is absolutely necessary. I am pleased that the Council of State has gone out offensively and stated that there must be a review of all the procedures, because it cannot be that it should be made known, and that the normal procedures and rules to be followed when lending are not being followed. It has not been done in this case when you look at what the case handlers have recommended, which has then been tried at a higher level in the system, administratively. So the SND has not done any thorough work in this case, and the lesson you can draw from this is that when you have a system that is based on SND giving funds to projects, you have to be much more aware of the rules of sustainability. When we look at which actors were in Pandestor, Jan Balstad and Arne Treholt, it is clear that one could say that these were known, and that they had their contacts, as some have claimed. We have not said that in the Progress Party, but there is no doubt that with the risk of the loans that were to be granted, some of these projects should be carefully pursued. When one then also saw that the manager of the SND at that time was Tore Tøn, and that the loans were given with his authority, I think, with the background of what has been revealed in the press, among other things. the commitment entered into in 1996 to receive EUR 2.7 million. kr in loans from the SND, that the procedures in this case have failed altogether. That is why we are pleased that we have got this case up, and we are also saying that we are satisfied with the job that the Council of State Grete Knudsen has done, and the seriousness with which she has taken this matter into consideration, and that we are getting a full review. We can learn from this for the rest of the time. This is not how SND is going to operate with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e204	The special feature of this case is the question of viability related to the professional assessments and the proceedings in the SND. The fact that the shareholder company Pandetor, whose chairman is also a member of the board of directors of the SND, is granted a loan without management, and no alarm clocks in the SND system are ringing, tells of a position on stability issues in the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund which I allow to characterize as an unculture, the more as it turns out that the SND proceedings provided a basis for special attention because the case handler was negative, but was overrun by his superior. I used the term ‘unculture’ and there is reason to ask whether SND’s own organisation – and that is the responsibility of politicians – has contributed to this unculture. In contrast to ordinary investment companies, the SND does not have a control committee or control body which may review the decisions of the board of directors or administrative powers. SND is exempted from both the Public and Administrative Act, which provides protection against public access, and the fact that the Ministry of Ownership – not the Board of Appeal – may also have contributed to the failure to feel this necessary controlling pressure that is often needed. In addition, the SND is not controlled by the Credit Authority. These issues may have provided a protection against transparency, which has once again contributed to the issues identified by the Pandestor case and which became publicly known only thanks to critical journalism from the NRC. On the other hand, it is to hope that the Pandestor case is an isolated matter and not a symptom, and there I feel certain that with the resolute decision taken by the Council of State in this matter, it will be clarified. Both Stortinget and the Department are therefore critical of SND's proceedings in the Pandestor case. How the alarm clocks in the SND until the degrees were switched off in this particular case, can be seen when one is told that the requirement for safety was actually weakened after the case handler in the SND was run over, as the claim for the self-delivery was changed and the guarantee thus made less good. Nor did SND see the danger signals reaching more competent professional environments such as Export Finance, GIEK and SND's own legal department critical of the goodness of the guarantee, says about a position within the SND that clearly underestimated or deliberately overlooked competence. And the competence turned out later not to be with the decision-makers. I'm not going to pursue speculations about why this happened, but it's clear it nourishes rumors, it nourishes claims that don't benefit SND and don't boost trust. Because in retrospect, it turns out that SND made three cardinal mistakes that a funding institution cannot allow without weakening the most important of all, namely the trust that customers should have in the institution. Stability was not adequately maintained, the professional critical assessment was not weighted enough, the collateral of the exposure was weakened along the way, the follow-up was deficient, and the exposure is in the grey zone relative to the SND objective paragraph. Worse, it can hardly be. My conclusion, therefore, is that there is a basis for strong criticism, as the Minister of Industry also stated in his letter of 4 December 2000 to the Monitoring Committee in the United Kingdom. I also want to add that it is worrying that the board of SND itself has not seen the need to have sufficient rules and procedures, which had prevented a case like this. Comments from Chief Governor Jan Balstad in SND, identical to Chairman Jan Balstad in Pandestor, in the media and later acting against the judiciary in this matter, I hope I am not representative of the entire board of directors of SND. However, I am pleased that the Council of State has now taken the initiative to provide sufficient stability rules in the SND, and that the Ministry will launch a specific review of state involvement in North-West Russia, as well as a general review of SND’s foreign activity. But after all this criticism, I refer to the comment made by the Committee in its position, where we say that there has been a political will to give priority to Norwegian establishments in North-West Russia. However, I think it's in place with such recognition, and in it there is also an acceptance for higher risk in some exposures than what would normally have been accepted. On the other hand, no one in the SND is exempt from performing good craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e225	It was quite natural to put this matter before the Storting, as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee wanted it, after I had taken the initiative to review it. And I quickly initiated a study that was linked to the Pandetor case. But I thought it would provide a too narrow a starting point, and therefore it was important also to look at the other matters that had happened in the same period, to look at both the procedures and the procedures that had been followed. And some of these issues raise fundamental questions that there is a need to go into a broader context. As regards the treatment in the Ministry of Industry and Trade of matters that were under the Action Programme, there were failures in the procedures. This consisted in the fact that different forms of feedback from the beneficiary were not continuously obtained. Such re-reporting explicitly required the legislation of the scheme. Although this grant management legislation is different today – it has become a new system as a result of a new government financial regulation – I have just as fully initiated an internal review of the procedures in question. In the case relating to the joint venture company ROSSNOR, funds were allocated, both from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to cover the costs of legal prosecution of the Russian owners. In my opinion, this type of support falls outside the scope of the Action Programme and should therefore have been fully covered by Bjørn AS and creditors in the case. SND's case handling of Pandetor's application had clear weaknesses, as several have mentioned. Export finance, GIEK and Legal Department in SND were all critical of how good the Russian guarantee was. This was not followed up enough. Furthermore, the SND did not have a full overview of the ownership conditions in Pandestor before the payment took place. Both of these conditions should have been dealt with more thoroughly before the loan was paid out. The SND's relationship to viability is governed by Section 23 of the SND Act of 3 July 1992 No. 97. The understanding of this paragraph is also elaborated in its own guidelines, ‘Guidelines for Stability in SND’ of 6 June 1994. These guidelines are in line with the corresponding legislation on public activities and credit institutions. SND has, as far as I can see, followed its own guidelines in the matters in question. However, there is also a high degree of discretion in terms of the sustainability rules, where the guiding principle for the performer must be to maintain trust with customers and others. In retrospect, questions may be asked about whether the application from Pandetor was just such as to create doubts as to whether the case would be the subject of unwarranted treatment in the SND administration. Afterwards – well – but it is relevant to the way forward. The SND board has now introduced a new rule for dealing with cases when a board member is incapacitated. This rule requires a case to be decided on the board of SND when a member of the board is linked to the applicant company, as a member of the board, as an employee or as a holder of significant influence. With this rule, one avoids suspicions that the administration is under pressure or influence by other members of the board of directors in the matters in question. Similar rules have also been put in place for SND district managers. In the BU cases, where the district board has its own decision-making authority, the rule is similar to that applicable to the main board, while in other cases, where the decision-making authority is with the director of the district office, such cases are now to be brought to the head office of the SND. In my opinion, the Pandetor case shows that these regulatory changes will be appropriate. I have also started a work in which the whole of SND’s treatment of stability issues should be assessed. The result of this work I will come back to in the big message about SND, which will be presented later in this session. And then, in the context of a reply – probably – I want to get to grips with this with the purpose paragraph and control and supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e247	First, I want to express satisfaction with the fact that the Council of State takes this matter as seriously as she needs to do. And now the Council of State has already warned that she will answer – whether you ask or not. But I think it is important to establish that there has been a failure in the routines and that the rules of viability have not been good enough. An administrative board such as the SND Governing Council must be required to do so by exercising sound judgement. It has unfortunately failed. So SND – after this argument occurred – says that you're going to do something about the rules. The government didn't say anything here about the department going on. I want to get the Council of State to elaborate on this by demanding extra security for engagement where principal board members are involved. It is quite common in credit institutions to have extra caution, to have additional security, when the main board members are involved in an involvement financed by the company. I would therefore like the Council of State to elaborate on its views in that very area, and to make sure that it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e254	The internal procedures have already changed at this point, in line with what the representative Ludvigsen thought was right. In addition to that, I see that there is a need for a broader assessment of SND's control and supervision, and that is why we are now going through today's system and are also assessing the need to strengthen this. It will also be based on the fact that public funds management will continue to be safe and that any new solutions need to move towards strengthening them. I want to present this to the Stortinget in connection with the review of the SND in a separate big message, and I have said earlier that I believe that we need to assess a type of supervision in the same way as that of other credit institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e261	When this case became known in the media, many actors – from the director of the SND to others – devalued it. When the council came on the track and got involved in the case, she did not. She took the matter seriously and has gone into reality. I would like to ask a basic question to the Council of State: does not the Council of State think that when we get such things as we have now, and which have been raised in the committee, the way they have been dealt with by the SND has been unfortunate, because they have gone out in the media and tried to devalue them when they have appeared? Doesn't the Council of State think that SND's management has something to learn from the experience of what has become known in the media, from the NRK took up this matter, and until this became a committee treatment and a position for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e269	What was probably quite natural for the employees of the SND once this criticism came, was to go through their own routines and hold them up both against their standards of stability and also in relation to their purpose paragraph. There was some uncertainty, but at the same time no more than that they also concluded – and we also see that from the setting – that in some areas this could be in a grey zone, but still within the purpose section. But otherwise, as a general statement, I would say that when you sit as a board member and have a responsibility for public funds, you have to apply a judgement in addition to what is directly written down on a paper of legislation, and I have said that in my post. It also goes back to what I have written to Stortinget in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e276	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1829]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e292	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the rapporteur of the matter be given an introduction period of up to 10 minutes and that the other speakers have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e299	As a case spokesman for this setting, I will first take some general considerations into account in relation to the NRK. In recent years there has been a raging development in the media, where television has had a stronger and central role. This will continue to be a medium that will change and develop, and I am thinking here of the digital developments that will lead to good agreements and good cooperation between Telenor and TV 2. Similarly, we know that the NRC is in a situation of major economic problems, and that reorganization is needed to balance the budget. In a letter to the Committee, the Ministry of Culture has pointed out the NRK’s obligations as a public broadcaster and, furthermore, that it will be more important in the digital media community than ever to maintain a strong licence-funded and advertising-free public broadcaster. I fully support these points of view. But if these measures are to be passed on in the future, I believe that magnification and government must also be willing to increase the permissions of the NRK. In our country, with scattered construction and special geography, it is not always easy to build an information and communication network that meets people's demands. If we look back some decades and up until now, the different media have been in rapid development. Today, something is not happening here in the country or in the world, but we know it right away. There are strong impressions, which give us information, and which affect us. I'm thinking about this. The earthquake disaster in India, with tens of thousands of deaths of aid organizations calling on us as individuals to provide financial aid for salt disasters in many countries, wars and large refugee traumas, where the children and the elderly become the hardest frame and ultimately racism, bullying, violence and oppression There are not only serious news broadcasts, but also good cultural, nature and animal programmes, sports and other activities programmes and not least good children's programmes. This gives us positive impulses in everyday life. The NRC, as a public broadcaster, will disseminate all of this to the entire population of our vast country, but today the offer to the viewers is different. In central areas, a choice can be made between many and different channels, while in the districts, people have few choices and often poor viewing conditions. In the position we are discussing today, on district broadcasts with television in Northern and Eastfold, the Committee refers to previous decisions in the Stortinget in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 1995-96 and St. Prp. No 1 for 1996-97, where licence fees were fixed, including to finance and complete the development of district television. Much has been done in this area, but still there is a lack of decision to realize own shipments in Eastfold and Northland. It's been working a good deal from these two states to get these two offers in place, which I fully understand. I refer to correspondence and letters from various instances in this area, which are attached to the setting. I want to point out to my own state and what our own broadcasts have had to say to us. More and Romsdal had their own regional television broadcast on 10 March 1997. Prior to that, Moore and Romsdal had joint broadcasts with North and South Trondelags. Although the cooperation on the shipment was good, it turned out that the region was too large and had too little in common. The Trondheim Regional Hospital and the interdependence across the county boundaries between the North-Møre and South-Trøndelag were not good enough to connect the region to a natural local TV-rich area. More and Romsdal is a very new state, among others. due to a varied nature, with a raspour hazard, delayed coastal routes, fjord and mountain tourism and a combined business with furniture industry and shipyards and as Norway’s largest fishing community – a strong export group in general. More and Romesdal do not belong naturally to Trøndelag, nor to an extensive Western region, from Northern Moravia to Rogaland. So it was the right of the NRK to go in to divide the region and the right of the Stortingen to increase the license, so that this was possible. The transmissions from More and Romesdal have shown that there is more than enough material to download for a separate TV broadcast for this county. The NRK More and the Romsdal are the only nationwide media, and the TV broadcasts are very important for the county identity. The transmissions are designed to link a chain of battles between the different areas of the north, south and middle of the state. People in More and Romesdal perceive the regional broadcasts in time between noon. 18.40 and 20.55 as their own shipments. The most recent series also show that NRK Møre and Romsdal collect their TV broadcasts, despite the fact that the commercial competitors TV Sunnmøre and TV Nordwest, who broadcast to Romsdal and Nordmøre, have three times as long transmission time. I want to ask the Minister of Culture to notice these positive signals from More and Romesdal, because I think they can give them the same ringing in Eastfold and Northland, when they get their own district broadcasts. The Committee is aware that the NRK is later organised as a limited liability company. In Question Time of 29 November 2000, the Minister of Culture said that ‘it is important that the Governing Council of the NRC is now given the leeway to make the necessary savings and re-priorities’ — in order to balance the operating performance of the NRK. The majority of the Committee would, ‘like the Council of State, take the view that if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals that would lead to major changes in the regional policy profile, the matter would require political consideration’. In my view, this has now been followed up in the letter to the NRK of 24 January from the Ministry of Culture, where it says: ‘The Ministry of Culture asks the NRK to base the Committee’s assumptions on further planning of regional television broadcasting in Northern and Eastfold.’ The plurality of the Committee, in its comments, has shown that: ‘The Board of Directors of the NRC has not yet followed the Storting assumptions. However, this majority has noted that, in the light of the treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge, for 2001, the Ministry has followed up the case in relation to the NRC’. I refer to the letter that was written on 24 January, which I quoted. The Committee is pleased with the letter from the Minister of Culture, which provides clear guidance on the further plans in relation to its own TV broadcasts for Eastfold and Nordland. The matter is recorded in the Minutes and I refer you to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e363	There is no doubt that there is a special day for local television broadcasts via NRK in Northern and Eastfold today, because we can now finally put in place issues related to the launch of television broadcasts from these two district offices. In my opinion, this is a very old case, where the management of the NRK has not followed up the assumption of the majority of the population related to previous license increases. Now I assume that the board of directors and management of the NRK will no longer delay this matter. An agreement is an agreement, in which the Stortinget gave licence increases in two consecutive budgets, but where the NRK has only partially fulfilled its part of the agreement by building appropriate locations to broadcast district broadcasts for TV in Northern and Eastfold. After a number of shifts of argumentation, a new TV broadcast for these two counties, following the majority of the Grand Duchy, must be launched as soon as possible, and no later than the first quarter of 2002. Until now, when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinges found it necessary to re-examine the matter, I believe – and the majority of the committees agree – that there has been a critical case in this case by the NRK management. With a background to the NRK proposal, the size wants to expand 11 local TV local TV district offices throughout the NRK with the aim of providing the best possible information to individual regions and neighbourhoods. At this point, there has been a common desire of the parties behind the 1995 and 1996 licence increase to develop rapidly. I now assume that the NRK, based on the treatment of Storting, follows up the assumptions of Storting. And in a letter from the Ministry of Culture of 24 January 2001, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry of Culture asks the NRK to base the Committee’s assumptions on further planning of regional television broadcasting in Northern and Eastfold.’ In this respect, the Ministry of Culture refers to comments from the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs on the same subject. This should be a clear speech. Practical work on preparing for start-up needs to be started immediately, so that personnel and equipment are in place, preferably at the end of this year, and by the first quarter of 2002 at the latest. NRK Østfold started as a station for former TV4 now last Monday, February 5. But this does not solve the real situation of own shipments from Eastfold. The situation has now become equally bad for the three other states in this transmission area, namely Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud. These three counties should continue to have their own transmission point. I will allow myself to address a direct question to the Council of State and ask for confirmation at the time of the launch. I think it is very important that we now do not delay this. Is it possible to obtain the agreement of the Council of State that by the first quarter of 2002, the management of the NRK will start sending from Eastfold and Northland, and of course parallel to this, that the station of Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud will be moved back to this region, so that we have the opportunity to have eleven district offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e387	I refer you to the rapporteur's posts, and with a lot of interesting news from More and Romsdal, this can soon become district shipments à la NRK. It's about Eastfold and Northland this time. I think it is important that we first establish our principle position from my and the Right, that the Stortinget, after the NRK has been reorganised as a limited liability company, should no longer determine where the NRK is to send its district programme from, or decide on the programme profile or other infrastructure on which it is up to the board to decide. It is the clue that we have had and will have in this matter. Then, of course, we can discuss whether the Stortinget has followed up the comments made by the Committee on several occasions, including: in respect of licences for 1996 and 1997. I think it is important to be clear that the NRK has invested considerable resources both in Eastfold and Northland, so that it is possible to discuss whether or not the Committee's comments have been followed up. But my right-wing attitude is that for reasons of principle, this does not appeal to the Storting to decide. Of course, I appreciate all the district missions that the NRK has. I am myself an eager listener to the broadcasts that the NRK has for North Norway, whether it's 'North News' on TV or the broadcasts from the north on the radio. And there I have the same approach that the rapporteur had when it came to More and Romsdal. I am afraid that a forced split of the consigning in my own part of the country, North Norway, will weaken the overall Nordic profile and identity that the NRK has so brilliantly contributed to over a long period of time. I'm afraid that a forced split, wherever it is in the country, will weaken the NRK's ability and capacity to produce interesting and qualitatively good ration from the different parts of the country and the different states and regions. The fact that the NRK can contribute substances from the different regions that are interesting to the whole country, I think we in the Storting should be very concerned about. And if that's the price we pay, that it's no longer possible by splitting up and assigning NRK infrastructure and locations that cost so much in operation is that it doesn't produce material well enough, then we've done NRK and ourselves a bear service. So I recognise that it is now the NRK that is responsible for the expansion, and that it will be fundamentally wrong if we politicians both demand budgetary discipline and at the same time require more of the NRK, without making funds available. At least the right has no additional funds, and we don't want to increase the license either. Moreover, the fact that the right was opposed to the contested increase in licences in 1996 and 1997 is, moreover, a historical truth. Another historical truth is that much has happened since the then majority wrote their committee comments. On the right, the Stortinget considers that neither the NRK’s worsening financial problems on the investment and operating side nor the new organisation of the NRK can be overlooked. All of this has happened since the license increase in 1996 and 1997. The right, together with the rest of the Committee, refers to the letter of the Ministry of Culture of 24 January this year to the NRK, which is reproduced in the vote and to which the rapporteur referred. Here the Ministry asks that the assumptions of the Committee on Budgetary Control, as described in the budget statement. S. No 2 for 2000-2001 shall be followed as regards further planning of district television broadcasting in Northern and Eastfold. As far as the Right is concerned, we take note of the letter recognising that it is the Ministry and the Governing Council of the NRK who are taking the decision and that what they have to adopt must be realised within the budgets and frameworks under which the NRK is operated. Nor can the NRK come and ask for more money once more. I think it might be interesting to hear the Council of State cancelling out the letter that we have referred to, to which the Department has sent to the NRK, but we shall neither oppose the decision of the Council of State nor the ruling of the NRK on the basis of the principle that this is the responsibility of the NRK. But it is also our responsibility to ensure that the NRK as the public broadcaster is able to deliver a good product. We can't get both bag and bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e404	When one hears the rapporteur's presentation of the impact of these district missions in More and Romesdal, and the important peace-building work they have done, each state and perhaps every single city would have its own transmissions. But the reality of this case is that in 1995 and 1996, the increases in the licence in 1996 and 1997 were to be earmarked for local missions in the Nordic countries and Eastfold, which has been the starting point for us from the Progress Party to be willing to address this matter on a principle basis. For in the Committee on Control and Constitution it is our job to ensure that the decisions taken and the premises set by the Storting are followed up. But a lot has happened after that time. The NRK has been transformed into a limited liability company. A number of changes have taken place which led to changes in the basis of the decision-making process, to which the representative Ludvigsen was also involved. But that is not what we are discussing today, we are discussing the decision of Storting, and the lack of follow-up that has been made by the political authorities. It is not possible to get away from the fact that it is hair-traveling that one has trained the matter for years and has not followed up the decisions that have been made. And if you're going to spend the same amount of time getting the new head of the NRK that you've been using on this case, then I'm worried about how the future will be for the NRK. Here you have to be aware that when you add license increases and give the impression to people that they are going to pay for a service, a good, they are going to get an offer, and when they don't get it, they should at least get paid back that license increase. We from the Progress Party are concerned with the principle here. Otherwise, I would just like to congratulate all the district offices, all the employees in the NRC who have engaged in this matter, and there have been few. And I think it's not just NRK Nordland and Eastfold that have been involved in this matter. I think there are also other district offices that have been affected by the lack of follow-up to the decision of the Stortinget in its time in relation to these district shipments, and in relation to the division of geographical area, which has consignments that are really natural to the population, but that do not become natural, actually unnatural. I expect, in the same way as the representative Holten, that at least by the end of the year this must be in place. We have invested millions of dollars in equipment. It's all set. Now it's just to start and produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e415	It has been over two years since the Control and Constitutional Committee first addressed the Minister of Culture on this matter. Following some correspondence and an opinion of the then Council of State that she would explain the specific plans for regional television broadcasting in Nordland and Østfold, the matter was attached to the minutes and the documents sent to the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration. Last autumn, however, the Control and Constitutional Committee found it necessary to prepare a separate case for the Stortingen on the matter, as we were not satisfied with developments in these district shipments. Many people have responded that the NRK does not use the licence increase to the assumption of Storting and that was in fact the NRK’s own wish. At an early stage, North Norway was seen as too large a region to have only one broadcast, and the NRC board decided in April 1994 that Nordland should be separated as its own district television region. Then, too, Eastfold arrived. Completion of the development of district television was a prerequisite for the Storting decision to increase the licence both in 1996 and 1997. More and Romesdal and Rogaland were expanded and aired with their own shipments in 1997, while Nordland and Østfold were exposed. In retrospect, the planned consignments have been released several times. The Ministry of Culture has stated that the decision of the Storting on the development and implementation of its own district broadcasts by television in Eastfold and Nordland is binding and that there is an obligation to realise these broadcasts until otherwise decided by the Storting. The Ministry further considers that the NRK must have the power to decide for itself at what times the individual stages of development should be realised, as the majority of the family, cultural and administrative committee has found it doubtful to accept. However, the majority maintain its demand for the establishment of district television broadcasts in Northern and Eastfold, and are concerned that the NRC has not followed up on this. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that it is not possible to go back on previous assumptions about the establishment of these broadcasts, but has not set a deadline for the NRC. The size has been very patient in this matter. We have waited a long time for the launch, and it may be tempting to ask: How much longer do we have to wait? There are many licensees paid and paid for a purpose that has not yet been realised. Large amounts of money have been invested in new premises and state-of-the-art equipment to send, but start-up has continued to be postponed. The matter has been dealt with in a slightly more reliable way by the NRK. Even though the NRK has become an AS, it doesn't mean they shouldn't follow the size decision. I am pleased that the Committee is very much in agreement with its comments and criticism of the NRC. And I appreciate the fact that the Council of State in its letter of 24 January of this year asks the NRK to base the family, cultural and administrative committee's assumptions on the further planning of district broadcasts with television in Northland and Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e430	In fact, this is a reprisal of the debate that the Stortinget had just before Christmas on the budgetary position of the family, culture and administration committee, where the very same issues that are being debated today were addressed, and where the Minister of Culture also satisfactorily provided a clear indication of how this matter should be further developed. However, there is still reason to say, as several so far in the debate have said, that the issue presented by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs today is another example of the fact that the NRC has not corrected itself on the basis of the assumptions made by the licence increases adopted by the Stortinget for 1996 and 1997 and which have resulted in the launch of its own local television broadcasts for Nordland and Østfold being exposed so many times. Actually, the district shipments for these two states should have been in place a long time ago. The increase in licence fees, with the clear prerequisites for the completion of the development of district television, was correctly adopted before the conversion of the NRC into management company, formation and subsequent limited liability companies. However, this should not prevent the NRC from having committed itself to complying with the clear decision of the Storting. And the decisions are not to be misunderstood. There is therefore no reason to go back on previous assumptions about creating their own television broadcasts in Northern and Eastfold, and not at all because the NRK has wisely invested so many millions of dollars both in the Bodø premises and in the Old Town of Fredrikstad. Everything should therefore facilitate quick start-up, and I expect that the Council of State today will also, once again, provide assurances. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs decided on 24 October last year, when the television broadcasts in Nordland and Østfold were made on its own, to also highlight the process of bringing together the NRK4 TV region, which, as has been said, covers Eastfold, Westfold, Buskerud and Telemark. Yes, I would like to say that I fully agree with, among other things. the rapporteur-general of Telemark and others, in that the district office of the NRK in Telemark has been poorly treated — to put it mildly. It is therefore worrying that the district office is located in Porsground and that very important competences that have been developed there are thus lost. Instead, we should have had a joint construction of NRK's district offices here in the country. I also think there is strong will in this hall to then happen. But then I must also agree with what the case rapporteur, Laila Kaland, said in his speech, that in order to achieve this, there must also be a willingness to give the NRK more fresh money, so that the major challenges facing the NRK as a cultural institution are really met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e441	After all, the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs provides a review of the case, and I would also like to refer to the debate that was taking place in the context of the Committee on Culture's consideration of the budget for the current year. I think this is a rather strange matter, and the reason is that I have never understood that majority comments can be taken as a decision. It was not, as I see it, a binding decision in the United Kingdom when the licence was increased in 1996 and 1997, but there were clear indications that the licence increase would lead to the establishment of district television in Eastfold, especially and also in Northern Ireland. It's Storting's aftergame that makes me think of this as something you have to expect now being followed up. When the case is difficult, it is also because the NRK has changed to a limited liability company after this time, i.e. the licence increase occurred before the NRK became AS. The NRK is facing very major challenges. We know well the situation of digitalisation and technology development, we know the economic and organisational challenges facing the organisation, and most of us know and will at least agree that, as we know it in Norway, general broadcasting is more important than ever. We also know that the district offices and district missions have given the NRC a legitimacy that surpasses all other areas. I would also like to stress that, in my opinion, the NRK has not produced as good programs as they do now, in foreign countries, in entertainment – and in public information, which I regard as very important. I trust that the NRK will follow up the letter referred to in the vote, from the department now in January, of course. I therefore do not want to weaken the recommendation and in a way the call to follow up this with the shipments from Eastfold and Northland. But there are many dilemmas here, and I think it's too bad. That is why, in December, I pointed out what is happening to other district missions, and it cannot be that the Stortinge readily accepts that district missions are being built in some places to follow up what happened in connection with Eastfold and Northland. That is why I would also like to refer to the Council of State's answer to a question-time question - referred to in the vote - to the budget for the current year of the Culture Committee, which points out that if the Governing Board, which must have the necessary powers if it is to be able to meet the requirements to be added to a State AS, would a great deal of change in the regional policy structure, that is the basis for political discussion. Now I think we can discuss, but maybe we don't agree exactly what that means. Perhaps the Council of State would think that an extraordinary general assembly would be what it wanted if, against my hopes, the NRC were to change the regional policy structure. I think that would be the basis for a debate in Stortinget. But I expect the NRK to follow up on the signals that have now become a total big deal, in contrast, in Eastfold and Northland, that we also take into account the needs of the other district offices, so that the Storting doesn't in a way silently see that a shift in activity to meet a little random... – it might be going a long way, but I think these majority remarks are a little special. The need in Eastfold and Northland I agree without a doubt, but I see that here the Storting is in a somewhat difficult situation, precisely because the NRK has become an AS. I have asked for a general statement in the Stortinget from the Minister of Culture, so that we can have a general debate on the future of the NRK, and I hope the Council of State can give a signal that it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e461	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has carried out a thorough review of the procedure between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Justice in this case and the follow-up by the NRK to the State budget assumptions for 1996 and 1997. As mentioned on several occasions, the Ministry of Culture has argued that the establishment of district broadcasts with television in Eastfold and Nordland is binding until the Grand Duchy has had to adopt something else. The Ministry has also expressed this to the NRK. In the context of the treatment of the 2001 State Budget, the Stortingen maintained its premise. Following this, the Ministry of Culture has sent a letter to the NRK asking the NRK to base its assumptions on the further planning of television broadcasting in Northern and Eastfold. With this I hope that the matter is now settled. Finally, I would like to stress that since the establishment in 1933, the NRK has been one of the most central forums for public word change and cultural communication in Norway. In order for the NRC to fulfil its societal role as a public broadcaster, it includes: important to maintain the local anchoring through the district offices and the district shipments. The Government attaches great importance to maintaining the NRK as a licence-funded and advertisement-free public broadcaster reflecting Norwegian language and culture in its full range. In the case of start-up, such as The representative Holten asked, as Minister of Culture, I cannot give any guarantees as to the timing of the establishment of district broadcasts with television in Eastfold and Northland. As I have said before, the NRK must be very free in terms of how and at what times the different stages of the development of district television are to be realised. Among other things, I can refer to the fact that the NRK has been given broad powers in relation to the commercial operation of the company through the choice of a limited liability company as an organisational form. The form of the limited liability company is based on a clear division of roles between the owner and the management. In a limited liability company, the commercial management and its responsibility lie with the management, in this case the NRK’s board of directors and the broadcaster’s director. This role-sharing should be maintained in this matter as well. In the case of the place of transmission, the Ministry of Culture will not be able to decide this on behalf of the Governing Board of the NRK. When it comes to a statement to the Stortinget about the general situation of the NRK, I can confirm here and now that I will come back to this. We're working on the entire NRK case in the Ministry of Culture, and we're also going to deal with it in the Government. I'll come back to this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e484	The council just said she couldn't guarantee anything when it came to the start-up – we have the roles, and we have it that the NRK has become a corporation. But I have a basic question to the Council of State. Over the course of several years, the Storting has made a premise by increasing the license for one to receive shipments in Nordland and Østfold. If that decision is not followed up in practice, does the Council of State consider it reasonable for those who have paid the increased licence to be refunded? I would like an answer to that question. These are important principles that we're talking about here. When people have paid for a service they will receive, but they do not receive it, does the Council of State not think it is right and reasonable for the NRK to go on its own and pay back to those who have received the increased licence on the condition that they should receive their own TV broadcasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e493	Let me say that I agree with several voices in this room who regret that this matter has taken a very long time. I can only stress that we have sent the letter to the NRK with a clear expectation that the assumptions underlying the Storting are now being followed up. I hope, of course, that there will be a clarification as soon as possible. When it comes to the refund of the licence, as the representative Kleppe mentioned, I cannot say that I share his view that there is a reaction that is in place in this case. I again draw attention to the very difficult economic situation facing the NRC's board in the NRC, and I need to look at these issues in the context of the NRC's overall economic situation. But, as I said, I look forward with excitement to the response of the NRK administration to our letter of January this year, and hope that this will be clarified, and that it will be implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e500	The criticism of this matter is, in my view, very clear. The deferrals have been many and imprecise. We should now be able to come to an end in the matter. The Council of State only partially answers my question with a request for a time, when she says that she cannot provide any guarantees. That I feel is a weakness in this answer. History should be ready. Premises are given on very clear terms and it should therefore be reasonable that we now receive a notice from the Council of State that she wishes to announce to the management of the NRK that this must take place within a certain period of time. It is not least important in view of the work to be done in these two locations by staff, with the addition and the whole arrangement. There is therefore a need for a message to the management of the one in the top governing body, namely the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e507	I can't guarantee a special time for this, but I am, as I have already said, very concerned that the NRK is giving clear signals on what progress will be in terms of the missions in North and Eastfold. But I refer to the corporate form and that NRK's board is free to deal with issues like this. I think the letter that has now gone from the Ministry of Culture to the NRK is very clear, and in the further dialogue with the board of the NRK, I will of course emphasize and clarify how the board assesses progress and when the assumptions of the Storting can be fulfilled. I'm going to help us get a clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e512	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e515	This is a debate we recognize before Christmas, and many arguments are, of course, also known for that reason. However, what is new now is that the Committee has presented a position which is very clear in its criticism of the way in which the NRC has managed the increased licence fee in 1996 and 1997. I share that criticism. I think that's the basis for stressing it. When the Storting grants permission for a license increase on given assumptions and given premises, we take of course for granted that this is being followed up. It's so far not followed up. In this way, the more principled approaches that Vidar Kleppe travels are timely. This is a fundamental, absolutely fundamental question about the relationship between Stortinget and NRK that I also think it is important that we stick to. Anne Enger Lahnstein and Odd Holten have in their contributions been subject to the conditions of district offices other than Eastfold and Nordland. Reference should be made, inter alia, to: to Telemark, and I understood probably that Anne Enger Lahnstein too had some of it in mind when she kept her post. This is justified, as it may seem that the NRK is trying to build up businesses in Eastfold and Northland at the expense of other district offices already established with its own facilities, including, for example, Telemark. I have argued reasonably strongly for Telemark before, it knows the council of state, and I am not going to put in such strong arguments for it now. But it's also a fundamental question: on the one hand, the NRK gets extra funds through license fees to expand new district offices, and then you solve it by cutting down elsewhere, or reducing the business. The TV broadcasts in NRK Telemark are an example of a successful local and regional offer based on a high level of professional competence both on the television side and on the radio side. There are possibilities that it can now crumble something, through the signals we've been given. I would therefore strongly urge the Council of States to include in its further work that increasing supply in Eastfold and Northland should not mean reducing elsewhere, for example. in Telemark. This, I think, is very important, and I think it will be a great, positive contribution also to the broadcasts for the region of Telemark, Buskerud and Vestfold if they are allowed to keep their stations in Porsgrund. I feel absolutely convinced of that. So until the NRK has changed its corporate form. Obviously, as Anne Enger Lahnstein says, one moves into a frontier country of how things here can be understood and how far the Storing can go in relation to dictate the NRK. But it is actually at the bottom of this that the assumptions laid down by the Stortinget in 1995 and 1996 were put before the transformation of corporate forms. It must mean that these assumptions are still valid. At least what we can say is that even though we might be able to interpret what happened in 1995 and 1996, this is by reading, and depending on the eyes that see, we can at least agree that the Storting did not let in any leads in order to reduce the offer one place by expanding elsewhere. At least the Storting hasn't. On the contrary, Stortinget has laid clear leadership in order to expand the activity of our district offices and not secure the status quo by building down one place to build up elsewhere. Let me also say that I do not want a conflict between Telemark, Østfold and Nordland. I want to get in place as quickly as possible shipments in Eastfold, and I want it in Northernland. It is time for it to be put in place, and for the NRC to take the necessary steps now to meet the conditions which the Stortinget clearly laid at the bottom of the 1995 and 1996 licence increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e532	This case can give rise to many reflections on the relationship between Stortinget and our state administration, as well as some cross-thinking. That a state institution like the NRK saw to those degrees can only ignore the consideration of a large part of its viewers, is one thing. But that it also completely overlooks what Stortinget says, in my view, is quite alarming. As others have already mentioned, in this case, there were particular assumptions on the basis of which the increase in the licence granted by the Stortinget for a period of time was decided upon, and on the basis of a proposal from the NRK itself. Despite the fact that there is a new studio in Bodø, we can wonder if the NRK had ever intended to implement the assumptions underlying the licence increase that was adopted, or if there were only good arguments to get the desired decision in the Stortinget. The establishment of district television is a strong argument for us politicians to whom it is difficult to be negative. From the Nordic side, this case is also about justice, both because the Nordics are of course to have what they have paid for, and because the whole country should initially have the same offer from our public broadcasters. In fact, there are questions as to whether one half of the country should have the offer that the other half almost takes as a matter of course. Because it's like the midpoint of the country is just north of the Trøndelags border. In addition, the Nordic state is as far as the distance from Moss to Steinkjer and six other ‘normal’ states can be located within the county boundaries. Some have pointed out that the northern countries have the Nordfor broadcasts from Tromsø, and that's right. But I claim that NRK Tromsø should cover e.g. Helgeland, would be like saying that all production of district television in the East and South will be done from Trondheim. It goes without saying how hopeless it would be. In addition, Nordland is geographically divided by fjords and mountain crossings, making it very time-consuming and difficult to travel in the county. The case rapporteur was concerned with the positive effects of district television in her home country. The Nordics are neither better nor worse than others, so there should be no lack of news both for good and for bad in the county. I took particular note of the good arguments expressed by the rapporteur, who is also fully applicable to Northernland. The representative of Svein Ludvigsen's argument that a district TV in Northern Norway would weaken cohesion in Northern Norway, if I understood him correctly, I see it as a traditional expression of a reaction that has been devastating to cooperation in the region in many contexts, and destroying many opportunities. He also showed that the NRK had invested a lot in Northern Ireland, which is quite right. But it must then be a goal for everyone that these investments are fully exploited, not to facilitate the opposite. An argument that has been used in favour of the NRK’s position is that the institution has become a share company and must therefore have more freedom than before. In principle, that's right. But it cannot be interpreted in such a way that it is clear to the institution to disregard the premises on which the owner bases the business, whether it occurs before or after it became a limited liability company. I find here reason to remind the representative Lahnstein that she, as the Council of State in a letter dated 10 February 1999, among other things. wrote the following to the Committee: ‘As you can see, the Ministry assumes that the development and implementation of its own district broadcasts by television in Eastfold and Nordland are binding until the decision of the Storting – for economic or other reasons – has to be decided otherwise.’ Another cross-point in this matter is how difficult it can be for a government council, as the representative of the owners and responsible to the Stortinget, to give clear notice that the Stortinge will be carried out. It should be unnecessary for the Storting to have had to deal with this matter repeatedly. Nevertheless, I would like to commend today's Council of State for her contribution to the fact that the matter can now be brought to a happy and decent conclusion, and commend the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for the firmness they have shown. However, it is with concern that I have registered some statements from some members of the NRC management who may indicate that they do not intend to follow up the Storting's will this time either. I sincerely hope that will not be the case. In the Nordic countries, the development of this case has been accompanied by great interest and excitement. I think the NRK is wise to secure the goodwill of the viewers even in this part of the country. After all, it's all about a quarter of a million people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e554	NRK AS must and must have extensive powers to decide for itself within the scope of its mandate and financial framework. This also applies to the time at which the individual stages of the development of district television are to be realised. Therefore, the Storting must be careful to interfere with such arrangements. I note, however, that it is the NRK itself that has asked Stortinget for an ear-marked license for the development of district television. The size decision on an increase in the TV licence of SEK 40 for 1997 was based on the government’s own proposals in St.prp. No 1 for 1996-1997, which it is called: ‘The addition of broadcasting fees for colour recipients is, on the one hand, a compensation for price and salary developments and, on the other, it shall finance the completion of the development of district television.’; In its presentation, the NRK had specified the last point to make up DKK 10, specifically for separating Eastfold counties from the region of Telemark, Vestfold, Buskerud and Østfold. I am aware that the discussion of broadcasting for regional television for Telemark, Vestfold, Buskerud and Østfold from the office in Fredrikstad instead of Porsgrund was already on the case map at the board meeting in NRK AS on 15 January 1999. The move was made on February 5, this year, and the office in Porsgrön was set up as a broadcasting centre for district television from the same time. Although the removal of the sender location is within the scope of the NRK, the NRK’s decision appears to be a short-term alternative to its own television district broadcasts in Eastfold. With this move, the television professional competence of Telemark will be lost in the long term, and I think I am sorry; not least given that telemarking will thus undermine local television in the context of Austland. Several speakers, including committee leader Gunnar Schaug, also argued strongly for this, and I am pleased about that. Regional television is a good offer and an important contribution to the local identity and dissemination of local news, cultural life and not least local involvement, which a non-national broadcast does not receive. My hope is that the NRK has been able to reestablish the Borgeåsen in Porsgrön as soon as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e568	I'm glad there's a big deal in the committee on the comments in the vote. I also agree with the representative and former Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein, who says that the NRK programme may never have been as good as it is today, and that they show the lack of a public broadcaster. I agree with that, but I also want to say that it was the NRK who in time asked for additional licenses for one to build up the district offices. When former Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein is critical of the Committee's comments, one might wonder that the Centre Party has chosen not to join this Committee, because they may not have seen it as such an important committee. In our remarks, we refer to the leaders when it comes to why we want to expand the district offices. Similarly, we have pointed out what has been done both in Eastfold and Northland, where millions of dollars have been raised for these purposes. In some areas, they've already started, and they've shown positive results. We also wrote that we were quite clear about this when the license extension was filed, and that we were aware of the transformation of the NRK from the owner company into a limited company and the directors who were inside. So to criticize the committee in particular -- I'm not a hair wound in any way -- I don't think that's quite fair. More and Romsdal, I mean quite consciously. The district office set up in 1997 has shown positive repercussions for our territory. I pointed out that people are looking at these programs, it has a lot to say for business as well as for their own identity, and not least it gathers the Nordmøre and the Romsdal and the Sunnmare in a way that it would have done without. I mentioned it quite deliberately, because I thought this could also be the case for Eastfold and Northland. Then I want a little visit to the Progress Party. I have never felt that the Progress Party is particularly busy with NRK as a public broadcaster, as the representative Vidar Kleppe puts up here, but that they are more concerned that we should have private companies and more easily purchased programs, so that it can respond in dollars and ears. And I don't want that development. I don't know so much about digital developments, but at least I think there might be a very important element in the further development of district offices and their missions, and I'm looking forward to it perhaps coming in the message that the Minister of Culture will present later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e579	Yes, of course we're busy with the NRK. After all, we have been the driving force for putting this properly on the agenda because of the lack of follow-up to the leadership and assumptions set by the Stortinge, among other things. through two concrete decisions to increase the broadcasting charge. It is important for me to say that it is not the Progress Party or the Right that has put the Council of State in the difficult situation by the fact that the NRK has been transformed into AS and the Council of State cannot now go in and rule as she could do before. It is the Workers' Party itself who, together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, have laid the leadership and the prerequisites, and who made the claim that when they got the increased license in two rounds, it was among other things. because they were to establish district missions in Eastfold and Northland. That is the reality. Then you cannot blame the Progress Party on this matter. The council must itself get out of the situation in which her party has brought her up. But the premise of the Committee on Control and Constitution must be reasonably clear both for the Council of State and for others in this Chamber: it is the stipulations, interpretations and decisions of the Grand Duchy that are the basic ones and that we have dealt with in this matter, and then there will be broadcasts from Northern and Eastfold. I will end by saying that we in the Progress Party are engaged by the NRK, but we are also concerned that the licensee will get what they have paid for through their license, and they have not received that in the Nordic countries and in Eastfold. That's the reality, and we have to do something about that. That's why I'm counting on the state council to sort this out, whether it's with Einar Förde or – hopefully – the new broadcasting director, who should be hired immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e590	This matter has a long history, and I can again stress that we in the Ministry of Culture will help us to get a clarification now and get clear messages back from the board of directors in the NRK on how they will follow up the Storting's assumptions. The interest of NRC district missions is high and justified. In my view, the district missions are part of the core business of the NRK, and I do not overlook the fact that this business will continue to become even more important for the NRK and even more important for Norwegian cultural life in the future. So I take my responsibility and will follow this up in dialogue with the NRK government, which has a number of major challenges ahead, both in terms of getting the new broadcasting director and getting the economy and new technology in place. This I will come back to Stortinget with during the spring, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e598	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e612	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e620	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09.ana.ud2253e773	There is no record.
