ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e39	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 2 November 2001: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 2 November 2001 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:Firstamnuensis Christine Benezeichte Meyer is appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Administration.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes and considered adopted. The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who has been licensed, has taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East Agder counties: Tormod Wagsnes For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Troms County: Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen and Arne Bergland For South-Trundellag County: Jørund Leknes Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Inge Wohnung on sick leave from 6 November onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on welfare leave of the representative Ivar Østberg on 8 and 9 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: British I. H. AndreassenFor Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen3. Leif Christian Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e108	Brit I. H. Andreassen is present and will take his seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will inform that the referrals to Case No. 1 and 2 have not been out of the regulatory period, that is 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget deal with these matters now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e126	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 188]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e142	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 188]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e158	When Kåre Willoch handed over NOU 2000:24 A vulnerable community on July 4th last, he hopefully had no idea where the current selection setting would be a year later. For this, the new threat picture is outlined: Terrorism and sabotage against infrastructural target poisoning of food and drinking water use by chemical and bacteriological weapons explosion of nuclear power stations and nuclear material in the hands of terrorists and unstable regimes – To just take a few examples. The Vulnerability Committee will come back in a few months. Today, a unanimous defence committee joins the proposal of the Stoltenberg Government to grant additional funds for the current year for additional preparedness for terrorism. The Proposition underlines that terrorist attacks against New York and Washington require action both to help prevent similar incidents in Norway and to help reduce their adverse effects. Today's attitude does not just show the vulnerability of democracy and modern technological society. It shows, not least, how many areas of society are affected and how wide the preparedness needs to be. For here, there are appropriations for health preparedness, for police, for the seat of officers, for surveillance, for civil protection, for municipal emergency preparedness and, of course, for military action. The breadth and scope of future security policies will be a challenge for the political environment. And more than anything makes St.prp clear. No 7 and the suspension by the Defence Committee of the need for a reorganisation of Defence and a broad defence policy settlement based on quality and mobility, and based on the new threat picture. I am glad that today’s Oslo police district receives nearly 30 million. kr extra for the current year. They have had a significant increase in the level of watchkeeping of public buildings, of embassies and of specifically exposed persons. The Nobel prize distribution at the 100th anniversary of 10 December is likely to require the maximum of what the Oslo Police District and neighbouring counties can contribute. The police surveillance service also receives an additional 4 million in the cancellation. kr. A natural consequence of the threat situation is that the civil defence response groups will receive additional training. I would like to stress this very strongly. Already in the current year it is about approx. 3000 crews, with an annual impact of 15 million. kr. Also emergency facilities, police, fire and health, will receive additional training, especially related to nuclear preparedness, biological weapons and chemical weapons. The Ministry of Social Affairs also strengthens the preparedness for decontamination – both for use at the site of the injury and in hospitals. As an immediate measure, the Civil Protection Service in Oslo has ordered two mobile decontamination units for rapid delivery, both of which will be operational in a short time. In the setting of the Vulnerability Committee, it is stressed that the risk picture changes continuously and always reflects the trends that characterise our own society and our environment at all times. I think we can nod to that and follow up on a continuous basis. In addition, however, it will be unpredictable, which can change in the short term both the international situation, the balance of power and the domestic defence and foreign policy. The fall of the Berlin Wall removed the cold war and focused on developments that had taken place in the international community for a while: ethnic conflicts, civil wars, terrorist regimes, terrorist networks, weapons of mass destruction and cross-border crime. 11 September 2001 has not only shown us that such problems and threats are in our neighbourhoods; they are here, and they are the main threat of open and vulnerable democracy in several ways. It's going to be our big challenge. With this, I recommend the unanimous position of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e199	The terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September show how vulnerable modern society is. In addition, the attacks show that peacetime events can have as large a damage as war events. The changes in the threat picture from war scenarios to peacetime events must have consequences for the priorities of our security and preparedness work. The Vulnerability Committee recommends a broad approach to current scenarios, high flexibility and high adaptability. I agree with that. I think that is a prerequisite for us to be able to meet the future security and preparedness challenges effectively, and I imagine that it will require important and fundamental action both on the military and civil side. In its investigation NOU 2000:24 A vulnerable society points to many of the current challenges facing modern society. The growing dependence on both national and international societal functions does not call for threats to these functions to be underestimated. In its mention of the terrorist threat, the selection states: ‘The trend in international terrorism is that the number of actions is falling, but that the actions cause greater damage and more deaths. An explanation of more violent terrorism may be that measures to protect traditional terrorist targets, such as well-known public buildings, embassies, aircraft and airfields, have led terrorist groups to choose more easily accessible targets and thus less discriminatory terrorist attacks. [[Turistatraces, underground stations, malls and the like]] Among other things, there is a trend towards greater use of car bombs and bombs in aircraft instead of hijacking. Others also believe that the hard fight for media attention is leading to increasingly violent actions.’ What is referred to here is what is well-known from history and military history as asymmetrical actions. This means that very concentrated attention is focused on those measures that have enormous adverse effects, but which require a lot of both prevention, detection and action. But what we can all probably agree on is that few of us could believe that the Vulnerability Committee's analysis would be confirmed so early. After 11 September, the Government considers it necessary to implement some emergency damage prevention and mitigation measures. Injury prevention measures shall contribute to the prevention of similar incidents in Norway. Harm reduction measures shall ensure that society is able to cope with a situation where similar attacks are directed at us. It is considered particularly important to strengthen the crisis management capacity of civil protection and the preparedness for weapons of mass destruction, which, as the rapporteur also pointed out, affect other management bodies and responsibilities of society. In this context, I refer you to the government of Stoltenberg's supplementary proposal for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in St.prp. No 3 on emergency measures to strengthen health preparedness. In St. prp. No 7 on ‘Additional budget appropriations for 2001 related to response objectives’, the government proposed additional appropriations for some important measures in the field of police preparedness and civil protection. In total, the government proposed an additional allocation of 97,3 million. 2001 kr. In addition, re-disposals in the defence budget of 50 million are proposed. kr related to encrypted mobile connection in central government. These are important and necessary measures in my view. The government will evaluate the results of these measures, including: through supervisory activities and the development of performance indicators. In the coming years it will be a challenge for the Government to focus its efforts on social security and preparedness against the threats that have the most serious societal consequences. The terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September show that the total resources involved in such events must be as coordinated as possible. This is not least the case in the context of the exploitation of civil protection resources, where efforts are made to deal with already established systems for the preservation of different types of emergency situations. The size has been previously informed about – among others. through the budget proposals of the government of Stoltenberg — the planned delivery of a public security and preparedness report during 2001. However, I have come to the conclusion that the presentation must be postponed until February 2002. The reason for this is, among other things, that the notification will discuss the impact of the terrorist attacks in the United States on Norway’s security and preparedness efforts. Furthermore, the notification will be a comprehensive report in relation to the vulnerability investigation, in addition to reflecting the report of the Emergency Response Committee, which has been commissioned to provide an assessment of the organisation of our rescue and preparedness resources, the consequences of the defence's long-term proposal, etc. This sample was also postponed until 1 November of this year. in order to assess their recommendations in the light of the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September. I would like to stress that the Government's aim is to raise the level of security in general, so that the civilian population can feel safe in relation to all possible threats. The Government’s political platform states that society’s growing vulnerability to IT systems, energy and water supply, threats from organised crime, terrorism, etc. requires greater awareness and coordination. In this context, I would like to point out that the Vulnerability Committee is proposing specific organisational changes that can facilitate increased focus and more coordination and powerful use of resources to strengthen social security. As you know, the Ministry of Justice has a coordinating responsibility for civil protection today. This includes, inter alia: monitoring the preparedness of departments. This does not seem to be enough to meet the challenges of the future. The government therefore believes that the most effective way to ensure this is to anchor total responsibility for the civil security of society in the Ministry of Justice. As Minister of Justice, I will follow up this task. I therefore regard society's security and preparedness as my most important task in the time to come, and I will come back to the challenges it represents in various ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e226	As there is an overall committee behind this, it is not necessary to stay so long in the case. I just want to refer to the honourable Member's statement and join it and the decision proposed by an overall committee. Following the terrorist actions of 11 September, no one can doubt that action is needed to prevent similar events. After the US counterattack, there is a general danger of new terrorist attacks against our country as well. The investments and measures currently proposed must also be considered in the light of the fact that investments for these purposes have been more or less neglected over a number of years. So it had to be an event like the one that happened on September 11th, to start building up something that might now be given too little money. We in the Progress Party therefore look forward with great interest to the Government's announced announcement of social security and preparedness, in the hope that it will take greater account of the aftermath of appropriations for, among other things. what is now pointed out in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 189]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e241	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e606	This matter is proposed for review by the members of the matter for at least one day and then listed on the map for treatment, cf. Paragraph 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure. Steinar Bastesen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e611	The proposal in Document No. 8:9 believes I should be sent to the Judicial Committee. The reason for this is that Norway is at war. We're in a war of terror. We have no idea what kind of people come to this country. There are people in the police stations who we have no idea where they're from. It is necessary to give this a thorough examination, so that all parties may communicate in writing what they think of this proposal. It should therefore be forwarded to the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e616	The representative Steinar Bastisen has made suggestions that Document No. The 8th proposal shall be forwarded to the Judicial Committee. Alternatively, the Presidency's proposal for a procedure and the proposal of the representative of Bastesen shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-06.ana.ud422e637	Here the President draws attention to the fact that a correction is to be made in the present report, with II being deleted. The report will be enriched in the printed version. The report is proposed in the Annex to the Protocol – it is deemed to have been adopted.
