ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e68	Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Finn Kristian Marthinsen on leave from 20 February to 22 February to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Moscow from the representative of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on leave from 20 February to 22 February to attend the Family Studies at Brigham Young University in Utah, USA from the representatives of Jan Simonsen and Gunhild Eye on leave from 20 February to 22 February – both to take part in the ‘IV Interparliamentary Transatlantic Drugs Conference’ in Santa Cruz, Bolivia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akerhus County: Einar Holstad For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad For South Tribute County: No Balstad
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e118	The representative Per-Kristian Foss will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e121	I allow myself, on behalf of Jan Petersen, Børge Burnde and myself, to submit proposals for the investigation of and proposals for new write-off rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-8 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e203	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 120 minutes, Christian People's Party 45 minutes, Advance Party and Right 40 minutes each, Center Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Left 10 minutes and the Bastesen representative 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e214	The setting related to St.meld. No 46, the national transport plan, which we are dealing with today, represents something new in Norwegian transport. The new one is that one is now dealing with the different sectors in the same message. The conversion is an important signal that it is necessary to see the whole transport sector as a whole, and then, on the basis of this whole, determine the use of resources. Such a change of systems as represented by the national transport plan must necessarily gain experience before finding the final form of such a document, if any. The attitude on the table about the national transport plan is very comprehensive, but I should honestly admit that it may not be as readable as it would be desirable. There's several reasons for that. One of the reasons is to find out how St.meld. No 46 is built up. It is easy to understand when dealing with the same theme in several places, but under different headings and with different text. It confuses even more when you're talking about tribal roads and routes under different chapters and then you're writing about the same projects under different corridors. It also confuses when a detailed reference strategy is discussed in order to go into detail later on on a so-called recommended strategy. In the message, a site name is also widely used during the project description. When the map material accompanying the notification is very rough, very good knowledge of Norway’s geography is needed to follow this notification. All of this makes the adjustment work more difficult than it needs to be done, and it may also have an impact on the setting. The members of the Committee on Transport may have the broad overview, but for others, who have not been through the process of the Committee relating to the nomination, this will not be easily accessible. To this end, the Committee has given in its opinion certain signals as to how the notification could be made more transparent and reliable. The Committee points out, inter alia: to make use of an overall overview of projects in the various sectors, so that a person does not read up and down and lists projects in order to obtain an overview of themselves. It's unnecessary heavy-duty. It'll have to be that far about the structure itself. I expect that the other batches through posts will make their priorities known, and will therefore now focus on the Right notes in the setting of the National Transport Plan. It is impossible in a single article to cover everything that the Right item takes up in that setting, for example. because there are a large number of other settings available next to this case. Other representatives from the Right will therefore consider parts of the suspension related to the national transport plan, and others will refer to the other matters under consideration. The right in the setting has underlined that the aim of the transport policy is not projects for the sake of the projects. The right-hand objective of transport policy is to improve the framework conditions, among others. for the value-creating business around our country, because safe and secure jobs depend on the fact that we have companies that do well and provide value-making – and thus secure jobs and housing. In a country like ours, with some very difficult topography, long distances and a tough climate, adventurism itself becomes a major challenge. Substantial efforts are therefore needed to achieve the predictability associated with the emergence of a modern society. The right considers that during the 1990s, a person has not given sufficient priority to transport. This has weakened the economic value creation as a support for living and employment in our country. In the right’s view, the main tasks in the transport sector must be to facilitate transport policy assumptions in such a way that existing businesses still find it possible to operate in and from Norway. In a globalised world, there is a major challenge in itself, among other things. Norway, in an international comparison related to localisation factors, is relatively poor. This can be attributed to several factors, but low investment in transport and infrastructure in relation to gross domestic product and very high taxes on transport have contributed greatly to this negative development. It is therefore necessary to increase both investments in Norwegian transport and to reduce the charges to a level that makes Norwegian transport and Norwegian business competitive. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes to increase the investment and operation effort in the transport sector by DKK 3.8 billion in addition to the Government’s proposals. This applies to the first part of the planning period. These funds are distributed by SEK 2.8 billion for national road investments, SEK 240 million. NOK to railway, SEK 480 million. kr for public transport and 300 mill. for coastal management. It is not possible here from the pulpit to describe in detail how the Right wants these funds used at project level. In this way I have to refer to the setting. However, I would like to stress that the Right has clearly and clearly indicated that road safety should be given priority in terms of both the operational, maintenance and investment funds allocated. In addition to increasing the economic planning framework, the Right considers that it is imperative to have more of the resources made available to the transport sector. The right considers that an important instrument in this respect is the consistent use of competitive outsourcing and tenders in the sector. To this end, the right-wing party suggests that, as a primary principle, there should be a competitive outsourcing of all activities in the transport sector. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that. But we are very pleased in the Right that the Left and Christian People's Party, in its comments, also underlines the need for competitive outsourcing to release resources for increased efforts in the transport sector. These lots consider it possible to achieve an efficiency gain of up to 300 million. kr per. years in which such a handle is applied. The right is really happy that the two parties now clearly signal a direction that the Right has long taken on board. That means that there is a very large minority consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the Left behind these signals of increased competition. Let's hope that at the next crossroads it's a majority. We would then have a structural change in transport that could have a major impact on the sector. It also welcomes the fact that there are now several OPS projects – Public Private Cooperation – in the field of transport. The government proposed two. It's now sessioned to three. It may seem like a slight increase in relation to the Government's proposals. But reading the setting, one will find that many parties signal that they can more likely use private-public cooperation in the future. We are very pleased with that in the Right. It was known to the Right, along with the Advance Party, who in due course proposed OPS projects as a solution. I think everyone who sees the need for increased efforts in the transport sector should be pleased with what is now happening in this area. This leads me to the point of alternative use of ferry subsidies. It is gratifying that a large majority would like to be presented with an in-depth analysis of how to use investments in the transport sector in order to achieve cross-sectoral impacts. This is, in my opinion, a very correct way of thinking about it, because it is the effect of a transport project that is important, as I said in the beginning, not the project itself. If an incentive can be given to greater use of investment, this is, of course, something that the Right will fully support. Although there's a lot to enjoy in the setting, of course that's the opposite. The majority – different from the group – speak hot, long and intensely for road pricing, increased toll tariffs and restrictions. Christian People's Party, SV, Left and Workers' Party want road pricing. The first three lots will also require tolls for the construction of routes. The same batches also allow the introduction of tolls without local connection. In my opinion, the latter is contrary to what Stortinget has previously provided for toll projects. Of course, the right cannot support such an attack on decision-making processes in municipalities and counties. I understand that the centre party has signed out of the comment that it says there. Much of the justification for road pricing and forcing tolls and further restrictions is to be found in the signals that now you really want to bet on increased public transport. You world! It's amazing, then, that the same parties that talk so deeply, so long and so hot about public transport in their framework proposals, don't with five flat ears increase the effort in this area. The same parties say they want to do it – but then this was about doing it, then! It is strange when the same parties are involved in a majority opinion that calls for a system change relating to quality contracts in the field of public transport. That we're going to get better quality contracts, get more public transport in this country – which we all want – without using another penny at the same time, I think it's pretty low credibility. We in the Right don't think it's possible to improve the collective provision in Norway without at the same time showing the willingness to use any more resources on this. The right, therefore, in its framework proposal, introduces increased appropriations for public transport. I would like to stress that there is nothing that we have found in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan. The right signalled the need for continuation when we supported the proposal to increase public transport appropriations in the 2001 budget. It disappoints us in the Right that more parties talking about public transport do nothing more than ask for another inquiry into public transport. An honest exception here is the SV and the Left, which, like the Right, follow up the commitments made in the 2001 budget. As mentioned earlier, there are a wide range of issues to be addressed in addition to the national transport plan. In the individual settings, what the Right believes about these matters will be stated. In addition, other representatives from the Right will address these issues. A wide range of proposals have been made in relation to the national transport plan. The vote will come back to us. However, I would ask that the vote be taken in such a way that, if the Left and Right proposals, no. 19, to turn Ålesund port and Karmsund port into national ports, right to vote in favour of proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, to give such status to Ålesund. I take this up with me the proposals that the Right alone or with others promote in the matters that are pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e269	Oddvard Nilsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e274	I will give tribute to the chairman of the committee as rapporteur of the case. There has been a thorough handling of the matter. The right has listed a total of 20 transport projects involved in so-called Public Private Cooperation in the development and financing of road projects. The majority are going in to try out a few. The ECON report stresses the need for effective competition and the importance of an effective road construction system. They consider that there are three Norwegian entrepreneurs who are willing to participate and who have the necessary skills. Does the head of the committee think that such a high number of projects as the Right suggests will give rise to real competition? Several projects on the Right and the Advance Party list are not proposed in the plan. Does the Right believe that we need to open up in order for OPS projects to be able to quell? Is it necessary for these projects to be prioritised? The ECON report concludes that the schemes need to be tested over time and evaluated on an ongoing basis. This contrasts with the strong right-hand drive that so many projects are to be financed by OPS. Does the Right really feel so sure that none of the possible negative effects of such funding are going on? And does the Right not feel that it is necessary to take the time to evaluate the projects that are being started gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e285	The national transport plan extends over 10 years. In the past it has been that very often the discussion in traffic was related to projects, in the north and south and east and west. I think the most important thing about the national transport plan is to give more long-term lines, the more structural things, what we want, and how the transport sector works. Then we are back to what the representative Røtweg asks about. Why do the right have so many OPS projects? I do not hide that we want a total system conversion in Norwegian transport. We don't see the need for the state to be a large producer in this business, we don't. We are absolutely convinced that the market can solve these problems to a large extent. In addition, we believe that if we in this society are to have the flexibility to move resources from one sector to another if we want to, then we have to create systems that have such flexibility in them. I believe that heavy public structures that bind up difficult resources will – we can say – become a handcuff on us in the future. We have to transform society in such a way that it is possible to move these. And then the structural change we're talking about, then it's about going out and ordering this product, checking that the product is correct, and checking how it is implemented. But it doesn't have to be produced by the state. There are many who claim that this will go beyond the quality or competence of the State Road Service, etc. I don't believe that. I live in the West and have seen gigantic platforms being built for the North Sea. But the oil companies are not building these! No, they're ordering them, they're carrying out checks on them, but there are private entrepreneurs who built all of this. So we've built up a competence outside the state apparatus, which is obviously important. It must then also be possible for this country to provide such skills via private means to other countries — if required. In a globalized world, I think that is absolutely necessary. The point is: We want a system conversion. We want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e296	It is positive that there is a willingness for collective action in most parties. There are also several committee proposals on collective action, as Mr Oddvard Nilsen has just explained. Right put concrete numbers on its bet. I think most of the parties want to increase their efforts when we get to the budget. We also put quite a lot of effort into the budget for the year in which we are in, in the last budgetary negotiations. At the same time, most of us see the problem of proper collective action, since the majority, in the framework grants to the county, going over the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs – which is responsible for both the amount of money to go to this and the design of the offer – while collective action on trains is, therefore, directly under the Ministry of Transport. The county council will lie down on the right. Does the Right see the importance of a comprehensive presentation of public transport – organisation and responsibility, challenges and opportunities – as proposed by the Christian People's Party in the proposal for a comprehensive communication on public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e307	It's quite bold this, from the Christian People's Party. I am willing to admit that I am quite disappointed with the Christian People's Party in this setting. In the 2001 budget, the right did not initially hold these collective funds. Then there was a negotiation between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, and then you came up with these, to my great joy. The right then joined them in the Financial Committee to participate in that allocation, in the increase, because we also felt that these funds were needed. I would like to stress what I said: I do not think it is possible at all to get a real drag on or weld on public transport in Norway if you are not also willing to add any more kroner to it. In the case of the investigation to be carried out: We get the Task Distribution Committee in connection with this with the County Council, and then some of these matters come. We have signaled in the setting that we also see the need for this to be coordinated. But we're talking about a plan to go over ten years. And in such a plan, you have to be able to enter that you want to spend some resources on increased collective effort, not just talking about solving a problem that we all know about, that we all know about the body, and that we in the committee have traveled around the country and the beach and said we should do something about. Well, let's look at the systems. It's not a secret that the Right wants to put down the county council. Nor is it a secret that the Right may want to collect more of this under the Ministry of Transport, to see the operating assets and investments combined. But that does not prevent us from giving signals in one setting that we want to spend more resources on this. It was just supposed to be missing that it wasn't going to come there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e320	: I will first give tribute to the President-in-Office, who has done a very good job. There have been many and late hours of night – and that is when I am hovering a little over some of the comments that the Right has joined here. They have a lot of good comments, and they have a lot of suggestions along with the Progress Party – it's a little bit of money from the Right, but it's got to be. In the late hours of the night, there have been many comments, and it is clear that the Workers' Party and the Centre, which has little money, have concentrated on a bicycle bet as a means of transport. It's delivered side up and down about the bike. So it's going to be the Working Party and the Center do it, it's their own business. But then the right has joined some notes here, and that's when I'm wondering if this is done in a late night hour, or if the right really means this. It is a good thing that bicycles have an important role in outdoor life, etc., it may be, but it is a bit strange in a transport plan. However, the new investment to be made by Vegvesen is said to introduce ‘procedures for a more systematic collection of data on bicycle use in Norway’. And this note has the right joined. That's when I'm starting to trick. Is there a new right-wing initiative that the Vegvesenet, which obviously does not get money to build roads, is now going to transfer employees to begin with a systematic collection of data on bicycle use in Norway? Now I've read directly what's in the notes here, so there shouldn't be any doubt. There is a side up and down with other interesting comments, but this must mean a new employment object in Norway!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e329	It's fun that someone can find the funny things in this, because they're safe. First of all, thank you very much for the nice words – that is also true of Ola Røtväg – attached to the Procedural Presidency. Thank you for that! Yeah, it says a lot about bicycles. But sometimes I get a little frustrated, because I think that in order to solve the transport problems in this country, we have to deal with prosperity and public transport etc. must be able to see that there are different factors playing together. The most ideal is in many ways that someone takes a car, some take a train, some take a tram, some take a T-Bahn, some go, and some bikes, so that we take advantage of the investments that we've made in society, optimally. All this sector thinking about solving all transport problems in this country by all people taking trains is a wrong track. At the same time, it is a mistake to believe that all people can drive a car. We have to have a spectrum here, so the Right joined up to a part of what was said about cycling. In many places, for example: in Sandnes – in the Rogaland area – bicycle is an important means of transport. There probably isn't anywhere in Norway that will be, but where there are opportunities, we should do something about it. And what we know is that there are a lot of people who could imagine using bicycles. Then we have another side of what the representative Nistad was into. There is a significant number of accidents associated with bicycle use, probably a much higher number than we are aware of. These are pretty much not registered, and I read this comment so that we want to get information that says a little bit about this image. Among other things, the undersigned is one of those who have said that I live each of our lives with the life in my hands up here in the Castle Park, when there are cyclists – with helmets, on bicycles with 40 gear – at the furious speed behind me and driving in exactly the same place as I am. And I'm convinced that a lot of old people are being run down by cyclists in this country, without it being registered. That's what we've been asking: is there anything here that we have to look at related to the legislation on the use of bicycles? That's what we're talking about, not making a hard statistics of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e348	We face major policy challenges in the transport sector in most areas. It is obvious when you are reading the setting. The Committee addresses these challenges in several areas. We recognise that transport challenges are different in the districts and in the major urban areas. The keyword in this context is accessibility. No matter where people live in the country, mobility and the good performance of the strongest wishes. We live in a society where the time factor becomes more and more important. Time costs are given greater weight to most of us, whether we like it or not. Not least because of the technological development, which makes us get the rest of the world closer and closer. In my opinion, the national transport plan is a good governance document for the transport sector in the years ahead. The horizon in the plan is the 10-year perspective, but we need to be able to see the need even further in time. The roads, the railroad tracks, the fishing ports and the airports we're upgrading today, we're going to live by far into this millennium. We're going to go on these roads in 2020 and 2030, and there will be others, those who come after us, who will judge whether we've succeeded. Therefore, this is and will be a strenuous political breathing exercise. I am pleased that the majority of the committee in most areas of the plan has joined the government's arrangement. The main thrust of the plan can be said in a simple way, namely that, in this decade, it is important that we upgrade and develop the transport systems we have. It is an overall political priority that safety needs to be strengthened in all parts of the transport sector. We're not going to go on chords with security, no matter how strong other wishes may be. The purpose of our transport systems is good accessibility for goods and persons. The development of a better transport network shall facilitate future value creation and contribute to increasing the competitiveness of business in all parts of the country. If we are to succeed in doing this, efforts in the transport sector must become a major tool in regional and industrial policy to a much greater extent than has been the case in the past. In transport policy, some people want to set city and country up against each other. Such grips would be to do Samferdsels-Norway a bear service. We are all somehow completely dependent on the operation of transport systems throughout the country. For urban areas, accessibility and access to collective transport solutions are the main challenges. Pressure on road systems is becoming increasingly challenging. This is due to several factors, not least the fact that people live outside the city centres and depend on transport between residence and work inside the city. In addition, all transit traffic comes. Especially in Oslo, I think there's a need to look at a new outer bypass that leads the traffic outside the city. In addition, public transport must take a greater part of traffic growth. It's in this perspective that we need to find the solutions for many of our urban areas. I agree with many of the country's rapporteurs that in the districts, people and businesses are the most dependent on road transport on a daily basis. Racing protection, bottleneck corrections, ferry connections with good frequency and opening times and options for aeroplane connections are requirements to which it is easy to connect. But meeting all the demands of the city and the country is an impossible task even for an optimistic travel committee. Therefore, there will be some who are satisfied, while others consider us indestructible. It is not easy to say no to someone with a smile, and it is not all given to be able to! The Committee has spent a lot of time on the challenges of public transport, on which the rapporteur was involved. It embodies the position and, not least, the proposals for decisions, where two out of three Roman decisions follow up public transport, both on measures to increase the growth of public transport and on the possibility of a result-driven financing of this transport. I have noticed an opinion by a retired captain of the car in Bergen's Official Journal: ‘I envy those who build the Triangle Connection. They can point to tunnels and bridges and sails; ‘Look what we've built’. We who have transported quantities of human beings corresponding to the population of Norway several times over the spring, there is no trace of that." There are many around the country who work daily in the traffic companies to provide a good transport service, whether they are drivers, mechanics, ferries, sailors or managers. There will always be a need for these people – without them Norway stops. We can never build a Transport Norway that is ferry-free, or get it so that everyone can travel whenever they want and where they will without any queue problems on the roads. Nor do we want a society where everyone has to use their own car all the time. The real everyday heroes are the ones who provide transport every day. I think it'll be possible to use simple grips that can provide better public transport in a short time. I think the biggest challenge for this transport is the means of operation. We need to show that we want to invest in good and socio-economic operating solutions that can improve conditions for public transport as quickly as possible. Among other things, the Government will have to return to the 2002 budget. Good professional competence is essential for us to succeed in our policy priorities for the transport sector. It will be our most important tool in addition to the financial instruments. That's why it's a shame that so few parties are willing to get out of the jumping edge in the work of modernizing, among other things. State Road Service. The Workers' Party will have a state road system that provides best management for the implementation of the transport policy. The effectiveness and coordination of the transport system, including across county borders, means that road management is organised in substantially larger geographical units than it is today. Major regional units need to be set up to replace the current road office and to take over tasks from the Road Directorate. Such units will provide less administration and opportunities for stronger professional environments regionally. In other words, more money on the roads. A regional breakdown will be easier to adapt to any changes in the classification of the road network or investment volume variation. A rational number is likely to be five to eight regions. It is important that such an organisation maintains the public offer out there. The people of the vegetation will face people's needs in everyday life. Therefore, this should not lead to centralisation. The tasks therefore need to be decentralised from the Directorate of Road to the regions and from the regions to the local units. This will give road offices that become more strategic. Therefore, it is necessary to explore the possibilities for granting these regional offices with an increased level of planning responsibility for maritime, air, rail and public transport. This will provide regional transport offices with a professional competence which will have the opportunity to plan for better coordination of the transport sector, as the Stortinget wishes. In addition to this, the Labour Party wishes to carry out a simpler breakdown where the road network is divided into highways and municipal roads, i.e. And two-thirds. Finally, a comment on the economic framework for the sector. Over several months we have heard through the newspapers how inadequate and poor the Government's proposal for a framework is. The lifting needed to get a proper frame is not going to be done, that's what I'm saying. The plan does not meet the challenges of business, it is asserted further. Let me remind you that the government in the plan proposed to spend SEK 1.3 billion more each year than what this assembly has been able to grant for transport purposes in recent years. Because of the availability of the construction industry, the Workers' Party in the Committee has found reason to increase this even more, to a total of DKK 1.8 billion, because it is important to maintain the skills we have in the construction industry today. I would like to remind you of how the centre parties cheered in the fall when the budget increased by 400 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. So now the increase is going to be the fifth. I've said it in this room before, and I don't think it can be repeated too often: I think it's becoming suspicious when the travel plans become a competition for who can think of the highest number. And I think it's sad when some people think more about the campaign than what it's actually possible to do. Promiseing gold and green forests, which we know we can't carry out, I think only leads to political contempt, and none of us deserve it. I would also like to remind you of how it went four years ago when we dealt with the forerunner of this plan. At the time, too, the debate and proposals were strongly influenced by the fact that we were approaching an election campaign. The centre parties and the right side promised more to everything and everyone, and told the whole campaign how much they would bet on traffic, if only they didn't. We remember the result. For two years, the same parties worked together to adopt the state budgets, which in no way followed the promises they made at the time. Today we are witnessing that almost the same thing happens again. I am sure that in the autumn election campaign we will hear exactly the same thing. I'll promise that every single time I hear this, I'll remember what these parties have done in the period. And when the parties have not learned from their mistakes, I hope the voters have at least done so. Finally, I will comment briefly on two issues for which I am the case rapporteur. This applies to St.prp. No 72 for 1999-2000 on the partial toll financing of the Rogaland T link. There is a broad majority who subscribe to the Government's proposals, and I would recommend the position in this matter. The same applies to St.prp. No 30 for 2000-20001 on the partial toll-funded deployment of E18 in East Agder. Here, too, there is a broad majority who are behind the situation, and I would recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e411	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party regrets that the dialogue we were engaged with the Workers' Party on the negotiations on the framework of the national transport plan did not lead to agreement. It could probably have led to a larger majority for some of the proposals that we have on the table today. But then we see that the Workers' Party is in a learning process, that they are susceptible to new information and new proposals. For almost one year, the centre parties have pointed out that the situation in the construction industry was such that it was possible to have larger investments in the transport sector, but we had very little in the negotiations on the 2001 budget. Now we see that the Workers' Party has acquired the same knowledge, argues with free capacity in the construction industry and therefore overruns its own government and increases the framework for investment within NTP. This is positive, but I should have liked to have seen that the Workers' Party had discovered this when we negotiated it in connection with the 2001 budget. I have also noticed with amazement that the Workers' Party is now ready to draw conclusions in view of the future organisation of the State Road Administration with new regional offices. There can be no other than in line with the Forced Centralisation Policy of the Workers Party in very many areas at present. For the Christian People's Party, we would like to wait for the follow-up of the Task Distribution Committee and the debate that we are going to have in Stortinget in connection with it. Then we will decide on this. Then I am disappointed that the Workers' Party did not agree with the proposal to purchase services on the main route network between North and South Norway. Finally, I would like to ask a direct question to the representative Ola Røtweg. Why does the Workers' Party refuse to receive a notification to the Stortinget on public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e426	In the case of the frames, the Government is not overrun. Now that we're increasing the framework, it's in close consultation with the Government. The reason is, as I said in my post, the situation in the construction industry. But at the same time, I would like to remind you that this is a significant increase, which is therefore beyond NOK 2 billion above what we have actually managed to implement in the annual budgets of the four-year period we have committed. And I think we're going to stretch far – and it might be that some parties have to split up in the curtain staircase – to reach these crowns and meet this goal. The background that we didn't get into the goal was simply that we thought the framework increase to which the center put up was unrealistic. Our goal throughout this process has been to create realistic frameworks. In the case of the State Road Service, it is not a centralisation. As I said in my post, we are going to decentralise tasks from the Directorate of Road to the regional offices, from the regional offices to the local units that are going to meet the audience. I am convinced that when localisation is to take place, it will have to be subject to a political assessment, and it is fully possible to take regional policy considerations into account here. I just remind you of the matter we are going to deal with on February 27th, about the location of the Coastal Plant. As far as the main route network is concerned, I must say that it is with amazement that I am recording what is now happening in the centre parties in terms of maximum prices and transitional arrangements. It is strange that the government of Bondevik did not take this into account when the short-distance network was put out for tender. We are willing to review it when we proceed with a new bidding round. The fact that we are not in favour of the proposal for a separate communication on public transport is simply that we want public transport to be part of a national transport plan and not a plan that lives its own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e439	The representative Røtweg was in the previous road and road traffic plan, the promises then and the promises today. And that's okay. But he also brought us forward in this with the promises, and the representative of Røtweg should wait until he has seen the result of the next election, and so on. As I said, we haven't been in any government position. However, with regard to the future scenarios for Norway and future developments, fish and shellfish should be the main future bet area in Norway. We all agree that our long-range coasts offer unique opportunities for the development and cultivation of fish and shellfish. This export industry is to be multiplied in the next few years, and in order to get these products out to markets from all our areas, good transport times are needed for the consumer. And the consumer does not exist here in Norway, the consumer is out there – largely down on the continent. How has the Workers' Party intended the future for all those who want to invest in this new industry – in North Norway, in the West and along our coasts – when the Workers' Party in the National Transport Plan wants to have a major stake in rail, public transport and cycling?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e446	There's a lot of promises in this house. I would like to remind the representative Nistad of the following: The Progress Party was a co-operation partner for the budget both in 1998 and 1999, and after what I remember and have registered, there was no extra crown for transportation. If transport was so important to the Progress Party, why didn't they give priority to it in their budgetary agreements with the central government? It's an open question. Once again, I would like to remind you that I think that we are going to put ourselves in the back of this sector and establish a realistic framework for this sector. It is a sector that is completely dependent on a planning long-term. It's a sector that deserves us to treat it seriously. That is why the framework we set for this sector in the long-term plans must be proportionate to what we are actually able to implement. With regard to the possibilities of the coast, there are many of them. And we take that seriously, even in our party. That's why we're planning to get a good infrastructure along the coast, not least in relation to highway 1, which is the sea. We're going to have good transport corridors out of the country, and we're going to do that. At the same time, I cannot imagine that a good part of our fish exports from North Norway are also going by rail today, through the ARE project through Sweden and not least on the Nordlandsbanen. And when it is then added to the profile extension on these paths, it is precisely for the sake of freight transport. So I don't feel bothered in any way about that we don't bet in relation to these main corridors out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e455	The Labour Party is in favour of road pricing and a rush-time charge, which will hit families with children and people in normal working conditions very hard. Many of these are people who cannot control their working hours. In fact, these people can get an extra cost of between $12,000 and $20,000 a year. Does the Workers' Party think this is an expression of fair distribution? Doesn't the Workers' Party recognize that this is unsocial? People who use the intercity trains daily experience that the capacity of these trains has been fully exploited during their waste time. Delays and technical problems occur all too often – as an example. It is then a paradox that when accidents occur and the trains are standing, the express buses pass, they are not allowed to pick up frozen and severely delayed passengers. Why, in the world, the Workers' Party will not provide heavily hit passengers with alternative transport options in order to arrive at the targets in a proper way, and not least for an estimated time. Is it the passengers or is it the NSB that is the main concern of the Workers' Party? The working party has opened up a few OPS projects throughout the country to go on new roads in road development. And going new paths is positive. But why cannot the Workers' Party show greater political courage by testing the OPS principle on more projects? The need is enormous, it is indisputable. It's enough to get involved, both in the country and in the cities. In this regard, I refer as an example to the west corridor here in Oslo, right outside our doors, and also to the Mosseweg in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e464	I understand that the Right has chosen the strategy they have adopted in the National Transport Plan to make it visible that a person is going to bet on public transport, by adding funds to the framework. The road pricing is intended to go straight to public transport, not least with the operation of public transport, which I had in mind in my post. And I actually think that's the biggest challenge. I'm going to admit that it can seem something unsocial and maybe it can hit the families of children. Rather, we will look at remedial measures, in relation to lower kindergarten rates, in relation to child welfare – nor is it impossible to do so above the tax bill. With regard to the question of whether we place the NSB or the passengers in the driver’s seat, it is clear that the main priority is to be given to passengers. As I also said in my post, we should not go on chords with security. As for the transport in these blasted main corridors, in fact, we're opening up more express buses on these sections that have problems. I feel that through these grips we'll probably be able to join in and resolve some of the problems. At the same time, the additional railway effort made by the Workers' Party in the framework increase in order to complete the double track from Skøen to Asker is essential for the closure of the traffic here in the Eastern region. In the case of OPS, we see no reason to initiate more pilot projects than these that we have now launched. It's not least because of the clear, unambiguous recommendation in the ECON report that we should try out projects here and evaluate them gradually, and then we'll see what's going to happen. The aim is to see how the private will be able to operate and maintain these road sections over a certain period of time, not just the construction of the project itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e477	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e480	National transport plan is a step forward. The treatment of the various modes of transport in an overall notification is a step forward in relation to the split-up treatment of the past with a plan for each mode of transport. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go, because despite the fact that there is an overall plan, the government has not been able to see any correlations between the different modes of transport. A key point with an overall plan must be to see links, see where railway investment may be appropriate to avoid strong growth in car traffic, or see where better port solutions are important or better roads to a port and thus create the possibility of moving goods from road to sea. Work on the national transport plan has revealed a significant need for the development of systems and methodologies for cross-sectoral planning. The Government’s proposal for a transport plan presents four different strategies. The four strategies focus their efforts on safety, accessibility, districts and the environment, respectively. Unfortunately, the government, as so many times before, has chosen to give priority to districts and the environment. But I'm glad that security is emphasized by the Government. The Christian People's Party has fought for zero vision to influence the policy of transport, and it is positive that the Government has included it as a basis for transport policy in the national transport plan. Increased safety in the transport sector is very important. Last year we had a serious railway accident that has led to a strong focus on railway safety. Unfortunately, the media are not as busy with those over 350 who lose their lives each year on Norwegian roads. The effort to avoid train accidents must be high, but it is on the road side that we really have a job to do. We know a number of measures that can reduce the number of accidents and the severity of accidents: physical separation between driving directions, better lighting, especially in junctions, and walking and cycling roads. The list could have been done much longer. These are measures we have to put into practice. But we can't build ourselves out of the accidents. Physical measures can never prevent road users from doing wrong. I want to point to two important points. One is velocity. «Dark Killer» has been on posters along the roads. And that's right. High speed, too much speed, is the cause of many accidents and is crucial for the severity of most accidents. That is why we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, will support the proposal to introduce a speed limit of 70 km/h on particularly accident-affected routes. At the same time, we see that roads are good enough to increase the speed limit to 100 km/h. This must be limited to some Class A motorway sections, where there are several fields and physical divisions between the directions of travel. In addition to speed, I want to bring forward attitudes. The attitudes and actions of road users are crucial to road safety. Unfortunately, we see a dangerous development with a number of rougher cars than a short time ago. Therefore, traffic training and driving licence training are important. It may be expensive for many to take a driving licence, but it can be much more expensive to go out in traffic without being well prepared. We want, among other things, to: first-aid training shall be compulsory and shall focus on ethical issues in relation to attitudes and driving. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important in the work of the National Transport Plan to create room for better rural development and increased environmental efforts. This will include, inter alia: increase in road investment in the districts and greater investment in the railways. That's why we're going to make 900 million. kr more annually than the Government proposed, 50 million. SEK per year for investments in coastal management, 270 million. SEK per year more for investments in rail and 580 million. kr more in the year for road purposes. And of course, like other parties, we want to get more out of the money, so we can do more. We believe it is important to ensure that the operation and maintenance of the roads are carried out in a cost-effective manner, so that the funds reach as far as possible. And we refer to calculations that show that increased use of competitive outsourcing and tenders in the operation and maintenance of roads can be the potential for savings up to 300 million. kr annually. We believe it is important to exploit this savings potential, whether it is through the launch and use of tenders or through more efficient operation of the State Road Service. In the government’s proposals for investment frameworks, there is too little investment in the districts. Others from the Christian People's Party will also say more about this later. I would like to highlight an important point for the Christian People's Party, namely the territorial distribution of funds to other national roads. We've never received any complete justification for the distribution of these funds. That government should make sure we get it. The Labour Party itself asks the Government to return to the distribution of these funds, and then it will be appropriate to provide the criteria in addition. These must be objective criteria, and then we will have to take a political decision on the emphasis on the different criteria. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we want to establish that historical numbers are not meant to mean anything. The fact that someone has received a lot before should not mean that someone will still get a lot – and vice versa. We want to put more emphasis on long distances and poor road quality. This will mean that traffic volumes may be of less importance, but where traffic is greatest, the possibilities of using toll financing are also better. At the same time, we want from the Christian People's Party to promote those who prioritize the organisation of bicycles and public transport. Christian People's Party wants a better collective offer. We need a better offer in the cities, so that more people can leave the car standing. And we need a better offer in the districts, not least for those who don't have a car, to be able to get along. Collective transport is environmentally friendly and safer than a private car. Unfortunately, the national transport plan does not provide sufficient grounds for discussing the full scope of public transport. The organisation of public transport today is a barrier to proper and coordinated action. The main part of public transport is not subject to the Ministry of Transport but is the responsibility of the counties, and the funds must be provided within the framework transfers from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the counties. It gives us little opportunity here to see and exploit contexts and possibilities. Better collective provision means that the frequency has to rise. If there is too much time between each departure, many choose the car. Capacity has to be up. When people have to stand or not, they choose comfort in the car. It's time to go down. When the car is much faster, people don't take the time to travel collectively. And the routes have to correspond, so that one can get there without unnecessary waiting when one has to combine routes. Collective provision needs to be better and cheaper. We have seen that support for public transport has not been part of the framework of the national transport plan. I can promise Oddvard Nilsen and others that the Christian People's Party will spend more money on public transport when we get to the budget. We actually need far more than what the Right has proposed in extra funds. But we come back to that as long as the collective offer is organized as today, it's hard for the Storting to do so much. The Christian People's Party therefore promotes proposals to ask the Government to consider moving the appropriations for public transport out of the framework transfers to the county and local government budgets and to the transport budget. I am surprised that the Workers' Party cannot agree to this, when they are prepared to draw conclusions in the middle of a task-sharing process with regard to the organisation of the State Road Service and the number of new road offices and regions. We are promoting proposals for a separate monitoring report on public transport. The coverage of public transport at national level is not good enough, and the framework for the use of public transport is not part of the framework of the national transport plan. We should change that before the plan is to be rolled. It is pointless that the purchase of services from the NSB in the major urban areas should be part of the framework, while the purchase of services from bus companies, both in these areas and in the rest of the country, is excluded. It is positive that a broad majority of them would indicate that they would be able to convert the aid to the public companies, where a substantial part of the aid is linked to the number of passengers and the growth of the number of passengers. In urban areas in particular, it is important to ensure that companies receive incentives to increase passenger numbers. In the districts, too, there is an objective to have more passengers, but there will in any case be a need for a basic allocation in order to ensure a satisfactory offer. It is also positive that there is a majority who will ask the Government to explain how the share of public transport in total transport can be increased. If the government comes up with good suggestions, we can already promise our support. But it is sad that we are dealing with the national transport plan during a period when the railway has more or less come into disrepute. The trust in the NSB is small, passengers are not satisfied with the train offer, routes have been closed due to lack of drivers, and every two weeks there is a call asking safety questions. People pick a car because they're afraid to take the train. However, the railway has a future, and the railway is an important form of transport – environmentally friendly and safe. We have to bet on the train, whether it's the NSB or someone else who's going to run the trains in the future. As the situation is now, the NSB wears down. They need time to get back on the offensive. But the picture is not as full black as it is drawn in the media. It is still much safer to take the train than to drive a car, although media scandals suggest otherwise. And there are still more people who take the train now than before, even though on some distances you wear heavily. I would also like to take the time to stress that the NSB is not responsible for everything that is wrong in the Norwegian railway. The figures show that the railway works are responsible for more than one third of the delays. Deficiencies in signalling systems and rail access and poor infrastructure maintenance provide a difficult starting point for the NSB. The cooperation forum set up for the coordination of railway infrastructure and operator interests does not seem to be an adequate solution and obviously does not work well enough today, so concrete action is needed here. It's not often we build new tracks in Norway, but when we first do it, we have to take into account that the tracks are likely to be used for 50 to 100 years, and facilitate far higher speeds than what NSB is running today. The new double track must ensure that all those who come by train from Drammen get a severe reduction in travel time into Oslo and do not stand in line behind local genes. I'm glad we have a majority to speed up the double track between Sandnes and Stavanger. This track is absolutely necessary to expand the offer on the Jærban, which is currently loaded. The train must become an even more important part of the transport offer on Jären. The new double track will also allow more effort to be made to transfer goods from road to road. The Christian People's Party has proposed an annual set of 270 million. kr more for railway investment. It will allow for the realisation of the double-track Skøyen-Asker, for which it is a majority. Now I see Arne Wam in the newspaper today saying that Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen calls this a ‘pure Oslo action’. I think that must be a big misunderstanding, because we fully agree with Arne Wam's concern, namely that this is the most important bottleneck we have on the rail network in Norway, which is important for most of the country's railways. Just so they're told. We will also have funding for profile extensions on important sections of freight traffic and faster progress on a number of other projects, such as the Gevingåsen tunnel, new Ulrikstunnel, double-track Oslo-Ski and actions on Eastfold Railway, Vestfoldbanen and Gjøvikbanen. In addition, we will consider whether increased competitive outsourcing and offers of operation and maintenance, both within the Railway Agency and the State Road Service, can provide savings, which we can use, among other things. to increase investment in infrastructure. We will also be in favour of a higher share of tolls in large road projects on high-traffic routes, so that State funds can be released for investment in rail in the same area. In addition, opening up road pricing in the major urban areas where there are major environmental and road traffic-related problems during the rush period will also provide revenues that can be made available for transport purposes. We believe savings, the release of funds from increased toll share on road projects and road pricing together must allow for a substantial increase in the framework of railway investment and the operation of public transport. Together with the National Transport Plan, we also deal with a Document No. 8 proposals to convert NSB BA into NSB AS. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we cannot support the proposal. The natural time to decide on the form of organisation of the NSB is in connection with the Section 10 plan, which comes later in spring. Today there has also been a look-up in Eastfold about the Mosse tunnel and its fate, which Ola Røtweg has been out and said something about. I just want to quote in relation to the very matter of the Eastfold package: ‘The majority of the Committee... refers to its previous observations on the need for implementation of the Eastfold package phase 1...’» Adds an extension of double tracks from the Bay of Sand to a new Moss station. In addition, it says: ‘Better accessibility and road safety, as well as overall transport solutions, have been the primary basis for the decision on the phase 1 Eastfold package. Both traffic and accident growth, and not least the increasing severity of the accidents on the tribal roads through Eastfold, reinforce the need for the rapid implementation of the Eastfold package phase 1.» So I'm referring to our comments in Innst. S. No 111 for 1999-2000. Some road users arrive without engine power. The government's mention of bicycles in the transport plan is lean, especially in the light of the broad reference that this theme had in its basic documents. It is positive that a majority in the committee is more positive by pointing out opportunities, but I am disappointed by the lack of willingness to do something concrete. More than a quarter of all car tours in Norwegian cities and towns are less than two kilometres away, and actually it should have been a little near forbidden for healthy uphill people to use the car on such short trips, but we can't really say that. At least it shows that there is a high potential for increased use of bicycles, if it is facilitated and made safe. The Christian People's Party is promoting two proposals. We will have developed a national bicycle strategy to aim at safer and more attractive choice of bicycles as a means of delivery, and we will have changes in traffic rules to increase safety. It is positive that a manual is now being created for the planning and organisation of bicycles, but much more important is that what is contained in such a manual is followed up. An issue that has received unnatural attention in the treatment of the national transport plan is the possibility of building roads such as OPS projects, i.e. public and private cooperation. When I think this topic has received too much attention, it's because it sounds like a splinter layer between state and private companies, and many have probably misunderstood OPS. In reality, it's only a gunnery, and just like usual projects, it's either the state or the motorists who pay. OPS organisation means that a private company is responsible for the development of a project and operation for a specified period of time until it takes over the road free of charge. Either the State pays the company a fixed sum or the company is entitled to collect tolls. But a OPS organisation has some advantages. One of them is that the bill comes later – not right now – but of course it also leads to the frames being tied up. Therefore, it is important that such a project is a high priority. Uncertainty can be left to the private; excess costs need not become the problem of the country. A third and important element is that the project can be built independently of changing budgetary appropriations. At least there can be a great advantage, for tight budgetary frameworks have led to the rational development and exploitation of a number of transport projects. Unfortunately, we have not been given a majority when we express that precisely this should be an attempt to create room for, regardless of whether the projects are outsourced to private construction and operation. However, let me stress that by the Christian People's Party we are positive to try OPS by expanding and operating some projects. It can give us useful experience. I am also pleased that we have a majority to expand the number of pilot projects to three, and that the third project will be Handeland-Feda in West Agder. A project that has attracted more attention than others is the Mosseweg in the tunnel. The Christian People's Party sees the need to do something on the E18 out of Oslo in the direction of Eastfold. We are open to consider the Mossevejen project in the tunnel as a OPS project after Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality have undertaken a new priority between different projects, where new projects may be considered in connection with projects not yet realised in Oslopackakt 1 and projects in Oslopackakt 2. If Oslo is willing to look at opportunities to increase or continue the user payment after 2007, it will allow for increased efforts. Then, the Mosseweg may also become current as an OPS project, or receive 100 pst. toll financing in a more traditional way. In the Christian People's Party, we do not operate with two lists of projects, one for the OPS project and one for the ordinary list. We want a list, and any OPS projects must be prioritised locally and within the limits of that budget and capacity that the plant industry can carry. Experience from the work of the National Transport Plan has shown to the full that everyone is engaged in transport! There have been numerous enquiries and observations about projects and solutions to different problems across the country, and fortunately there are also some answers in the setting. As a representative from Uppland, I am pleased that we have secured a majority in the work on the national transport plan on important measures, such as improving poor routes on the E16 route between Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane, focusing on distance improvements of E6 through the Gudbrand valley, and not least improvements on the Gjøvik railway. Finally, the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the impact of a better environmental profile and a somewhat better rural profile than the Government had foreseen in the National Transport Plan, and that road safety with zero vision will underpin the further transport work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e564	Would the representative Mr Kofoed-Larsen like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e568	Yes, I take up the Christian People's Party proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e573	Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen has addressed the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is the initiator and which are not already engaged. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e578	The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government has not managed to coordinate the various forms of transport to a greater extent, but it has not been possible for the Christian People's Party when they were in government. It is said that it is important to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and invest in infrastructure that reduces transport costs and strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. In the next sentence, the Christian People’s Party says that ‘the development of infrastructure leads to unwanted interference in natural environments and seizures of food soils’. But it'll just be words if you don't show it in action. This also applies to the zero vision. If you mean anything by what you say, the Christian People's Party must propose to slow down the speed of cars for walking, separating physically walking, cycling and cars. The Christian People's Party also believes that those who depend on cars to and from work in cities should pay extra road taxes, so-called road pricing. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to strengthen maintenance efforts on the roads, but what they propose in extra means is not more than what is needed to avoid further deterioration of road capital. I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party wants a greater degree of user financing in road development, or so-called toll financing, and can imagine using these means to build up rail along the same route. I remember the drivers paying approx. today. Forty billion kroner to the Treasury and just about Ten billion come back to the road and safety. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party wants to increase the user payment from car traffic. This leads to poorer and more polluting car fleets, and the proposal affects those who have poor advice. Does the Christian People's Party think that this is a good transport policy, that the rich can drive a car and those who have bad advice can take the bus?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e589	Until the last time Christopher Stensaker was concerned about whether the rich are going to drive a car and the poor are going to take the bus: in the Christian People's Party's opinion, everyone who has the opportunity to do so is going to take the bus, whether they have it like this or not. Then Christopher Stensaker says that the coordination, which I criticise in my contribution to the fact that the government has not managed to achieve this in the national transport plan, was also unable to achieve the Christian People's Party when we were in government. However, we did not present this plan called the National Transport Plan, and the starting point for the entire work on the National Transport Plan was, in fact, the need to coordinate and see the use of resources as a whole, in order to make the best use of resources. And we hope we can do that. At least the Christian People's Party wants it, and we expect it to be in the future, and also in the roll-out process, a majority who want to achieve a number of better coordination between the different modes of transport than is the case in the national transport plan today. So to the zero vision, and that here we weren't good enough when it came to money. In other words, zero vision is important for the Christian People's Party, because it will provide the direction for all transport work in the transport policy that we are pursuing, it will give direction to priorities in each year's budget so that safety is ensured in all modes of transport. I think that's actually the whole committee and the whole Storting is agreed on is essential, not least in the light of everything we've seen in the last year, in railway accidents, in boat accidents and with all the fatal road accidents that we're looking at today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e598	In 1997, four years ago, the Christian People's Party increased the road framework for the period 1998–2001 in Norwegian Road Plan by several billion dollars compared to the government. It was with great disappointment that many people noted that the Christian People's Party withdrew from all the promises during the same year's budgetary procedure, and that they have continued to do so throughout the current period. Will the Christian People's Party keep the promises regarding the framework for the period 2002-2005 and for the next decade? And in that case, what will the party do for us to be able to believe this? During the examination of the Norwegian railway plan in 1997, the Christian People's Party, together with a majority, proposed to complete double tracks Skøyen-Asker, organised as its own company. Against this background, it is interesting to ask the Christian People's Party whether this implies that the party will look at new ways of making major railway extensions as OPS projects. Will the party consider contributing to this principle for the development of the congested routes of which we have many, such as: Skøen–Asker, Vestfoldbanen and Østfoldbanen? The Committee has concluded that the share of public transport in passenger transport has been reduced. As the rapporteur has previously pointed out, why does the Christian People's Party of Right not support collective action instead of sending the matter out on a timeless journey in the department? Will the Christian People's Party support the Right in the further budgetary work in the Stortingen to the harvest to speed up the development of public transport, as she was in her post?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e607	The representative of Brunæs recalls 1997 and the treatment of Norwegian road map, where both the Christian People's Party, the Right and a majority advocated a large billion increase in the road sector, and he says that there is great disappointment that the Christian People's Party has not done anything about it during this period. Then I just have to repeat that we have had two budgetary settlements with, among other things. At the right of this period, and there was no addition in the road sector, so there must also be disappointment in the right and the right. But what about the national transport plan that we're now talking about, what are we going to do now, we're going to stand up for what we're proposing in this round, or are there going to be new disappointments? Well, we in the Christian People's Party fraction of the committee, which was not in the previous period any of us, stands for what we are proposing with regard to this plan. We think this is realistic, and we should be able to do that. And here we are in the same booth as the Right, which has suggested about the same amount that we've done. I therefore expect that in future budgetary work it will be possible to reach a majority in order to implement what we now say we want to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e614	I assume that promises from the Christian People's Party are not dependent on new representatives or that someone goes over to another committee, because then, of course, promises in settings are no longer very valuable. The representative Kofoed-Larsen said that the NSB is not entirely responsible for the problems, and then she made a blame-sharing between the NSB and the railway station. I noticed no humility, no search of the sea as regards the responsibility that lies in this room. I was involved in handling the previous railway plan, and the Christian People's Party is with us in noting that the road we have is the first generation railway built with a few exceptions 100-150 years ago. Requirements for track, speed, carrying capacity, profile in tunnels, etc. was then completely different from today. Christian People's Party describes a railway system that's old-fashioned, first-generation railway, and then they say that the workers' party government would do that time in terms of investments in the railway was too puzzled. The Christian People's Party says that there must be a significantly stronger bet than what the Government adds up to. A strong rise in investment had to take place, said the Christian People's Party in 1997. Then they proposed an extra 3.2 billion kroner for the four-year period to try to lift the railway and get it modernised. Of course, there did not come a penny in the three years they were in government and the fourth year when they were budget partners. Then I ask, isn't there reason for a little humility? If you think it's the railway of the past, what can you require of the operator in terms of punctuality, in terms of cutting down travel time, etc. and provide a good service to customers? In fact, it's hard on the old network of many generations to do that, so I think she'll come here and take a real sea critique for the bad job their government did in the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e623	Socialist Left Party Inge Myrvoll and Christian People's Party have absolutely the same view of rail: both parties want more investment on rail. I will also admit that I actually have a humility in relation to what has been done in the railway sector for a long number of years, both on my own behalf and not least on behalf of others, which, of course, I am going to take responsibility for here I am now. The extra investment in 1997 we have talked about many times earlier during these now almost four years in this period. The railway effort has not been good enough, not only for the last four years, but also for many years before, and then the result is as the representative Myrvoll says, that the infrastructure is actually quite poor on a good number of routes. But it's starting to happen positive things there as well. There are a number of things that have been done over the last few years that make it possible to actually increase the rate of some of these distances, for example. Oslo–Lillehammer–Trondheim and Oslo–Kristiansand, but there is still a lot left to get an infrastructure that is good enough to really get a stake on the public transport service as the railway is. That's why we're also adding to this plan an increased investment in infrastructure on the railways, and we hope that we can get a majority in the budgets of the years that are coming, so that we can get the line network we really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e635	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e638	In today's transport society, the State has taken responsibility for the infrastructure. In addition, the public operator is also in the passenger and freight transport market, through its participation in NSB BA, SAS, publicly supported ferries, boats, bus routes and some other public transport services in Norway. The Progress Party will further point out that the public as an actor in the market for the transport of both passenger and freight transport involves significant expenditure for the State, the counties and the municipalities. On the other hand, the state collects a total of 40 billion kroner from car traffic, while government expenditure on both operation, maintenance and investment in the road sector is only about 10 billion kroner. Many politicians point out that it is easy to take the view that air traffic and car use should be reduced and that people should instead use buses, trains, T-Bahn or trams. However, the Party considers that it is more important that the most appropriate means of transport be used in relation to the transport task to be resolved and that public participation in transport should be organised in accordance with the following principles: 1st@item: inlistbox All production of transport services and transport-related goods and services is distinguished from public authority. The principle that the public must pay or receive payments from producers of such services is introduced as a regulatory instrument where regulation is necessary to ensure certain transport services. This will ensure the full effectiveness of all transport service production.2. The main modernisation and renewal tool is to implement the legislative and regulatory changes necessary to establish a fully market-driven transport market. The role of the authorities shall be limited to the purchase and sale of transport rights where regulation is still necessary.3. The current Ministry of Transport is reorganised into a Ministry of Transport responsible for everything in the field of transport to land, water and air and all activities which are a natural part of the transport activity, including port activities.4. Administratively, the Directorate-General for Transport of the Joint State is established on the basis of the merger of the Directorate-General for Road, the Aviation and the Railways. The Directorate-General for Transport is responsible for the road network as a whole, but uses companies to build and maintain roads. The air carrier’s airports are organised in a separate public limited liability company, Norwegian airports A/S, which provides its services to the airlines under agreements and guidelines of the Transport Directorate. In the case of the rail network, it is owned by the Transport Directorate, which purchases construction and maintenance services in the market, possibly from newly formed limited liability companies based on the current NSA BA workshop and maintenance departments. A contract is therefore established for some years with these, in order to ensure a transitional arrangement.5. The contracting and operating departments of the State Road Service are reorganised into limited liability companies and are also contracted for some transitional years for previous tasks under their control. Road departments of the Directorate of Transport shall have a clean construction function and the management of the maintenance work.6. A State transport regulatory body is established to control all transport operations by land, water, air and port in order to ensure compliance with all rules, in particular safety rules. The costs of transport supervision are charged to users in full. 7th@item: inlistbox Laws and regulations are designed to facilitate integrated transport companies in passenger and freight transport, i.e. major companies capable of producing transport services for both goods and persons by land, for water, air and rail by ships, ferries, aircraft, trailers, taxis, buses, trains and terminal services, ports, airports and stations.8. The overall responsibility for the ports of the country is transferred from the Ministry of Fisheries to the Ministry of Transport and is organised in public limited liability companies where transport companies can gradually buy shares, but with possible provision for the minimum number of shareholders and the limitation of ownership. Competition between ports is introduced as an important management tool to prevent monopoly profits and inefficient transport services. 9th@item: inlistbox A separate accident commission is established according to the same model as the National Transportation Safety Board in the United States. We refer you to Document No. 8:59 for 1999-2000. In addition to this innovation in the reorganization of Norwegian transport, we will also refer to previous as well as some new Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party on improvements and modernisation in the transport sector, including: the following proposals, which will be discussed today with the National Transport Plan: Document No 8:89 for 1997-1998 to impose requirements on the efficient, profitable and non-competitive operation of the Road Administration's own production Document No. 8:70 for 1998-1999 on opening up the rail network to other actors Document No. 8:59 for 1999-2000 on Joint Accident Commission Document No. 8:9 for 2000-2001 on the conversion of NSB BA into an ordinary share company So a little bit about the numbers we've provided for the next decade. For the next planning period, the Progress Party is proposing a total increase of approximately DKK 45 billion for transport, and we have given particular attention to a strong upgrading of the road sector. We are aware that the lag in the road sector has risen to an incredible amount of NOK 9.3 billion. The Progress Party therefore believes that we need to take a ceiling on maintenance and want an increase of 5 billion kroner during the planning period. There is a poor store and poor investment in the future to allow the road sector to mature more and more, as the Government and the majority in this room today say. In the case of investments in the main road network, the Progress Party over the ordinary budgets will increase these by DKK 14 billion during the planning period. In addition, we have said that we want to spend $1.5 billion per. years, i.e. 15 billion during the planning period, which is going to go over the foreign budget, or the so-called oil billion. If we don't get a real investment in the road sector in the next decade, we're afraid that our competitiveness will be further weakened. The use of oil money for road investment has to be considerably better than having those in foreign banks at a low interest rate. So a little bit about what we want to do. The progress party will have a continuous motorway, E6, Svinesund–Steinkjer, including a new four-field Svinesundbro. We want motorways, E18, Kristiansand-Oslo-Örje. We want it to be built on this entire section of a four-field highway, with the exception of some low-ÅDT sections where we want a Class B motorway. In addition, we want to expand all the tribal routes vigorously so that we can achieve the same standard as other countries have on their behalf. The intention to upgrade some of our highways to tribal roads was originally that these roads should be prioritized and expanded. Unfortunately, this has not been followed up, so the sense of having tribal roads is completely gone. That is why, in the Progress Party, we believe that this promise must be made for the next decade. In addition to prioritizing the maintenance and tribal routes, the Progress Party will also develop the roads towards the tribal road network. And the divided framework will increase the Progress Party by $8 billion in addition to the Government's proposals in the next planning period. This is in short the restructuring and investment that the Progress Party will carry out and that we regard as an absolute necessity. I have taken a lot of road here, but others from the Progress Party will get into the railway, port, etc. later in the debate today. Finally, I will be able to present the suggestions that have been included in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e720	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e725	The party of progress has told us in its comments that after the Lærdal Tunnel was opened, Bergen–Oslo got his ferry-free tribal road. I just want to give the same representatives a little geography knowledge: we've had one since 1991, that's the 50 Hol-Aurland highway. So over to the questions. The party of progress will have little to do with public transport. You'll almost get the impression that it has more to it than car use. The rail bulwark must be opened to private people in the constitution it is, that is, old. And rail investment is a waste of money in spite of the fact that they have a lot more money for transport than any other party. To get a frame that's on unimaginable $44.6 billion more than the government's frame, an almost wasted money has to go out to the people without a cost frame. Shouldn't the Progress Party also use anything more on the railway? Do they really believe that this is a threat, and where are they going to take these heads from? Is it from old and sick, school and unhelp, or is it the municipalities, who care for the welfare of all of us, who are going to rage? And where are they going to pick up the labour force? There aren't so many unemployed in the construction sector here in total? Or should it be labour immigration? And how does this relate to foreign investment, is it unhelp to Sweden? Here it's not just a failure, it's a failure in logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e737	There was a lot here, yes! It was little for public transport, it was said. Yes, of course, we want to remove many of the concession arrangements, we – we want to release it. We see what NOR-WAY Bus Express has done where they have been allowed to drive. They've actually got people on the bus. And we believe that there are so many bus companies and other companies who might want to go into this niche, that we're not in any way afraid that we're not going to get people to drive collectively. But then they must be allowed to establish themselves, they must be allowed to drive a bus and above all they must be allowed to open the door and take people in. This is where we have a lot of nice rules today. Then we'll open the old railway. If you have competition on the track and get more people to drive there, the Railway Agency will also get income. Today they receive some income from the freight transport of the NSB. If you have Line freight, Customs mail or whoever it is, to run on the track, they'll pay a fee for it. Then the Railway Agency also makes more money. We're not afraid of this. In addition, if we launch the NSB, I'm perfectly ready to put it on the tender. We're saving at least 20 pst. Of that money, we'd like to spend a little bit of time on the railways, and we've done that. We've added $1.2 billion to the increase. But we've said no to some major railway projects, tunnels, I'm going to be completely open and honest and say that. We want to use it on the road. Then we're asked where we're going to take the money from, and where we're going to pick up the labour force and everything from. Ida, we've said that we like to spend some oil money on it. It's better than having all the money standing at a low interest rate in the bank. So we think it's a better investment to build properly for everyone once and for all, so that the competitiveness of business can grow. They have to transport their products from many different parts of the country, and they're going down to the continent, and then they have to have good road connections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e750	In the setting up of the current national transport plan, there is a fairly broad consensus between the parties on the framework, with the exception of one, namely the Progress Party. And we've heard about the 45 billion. In an interview with Gudbrandsdøren Dagningen on 6 February, Nistad questions about this: «Do you now take money you don't have? No, we get the money in different ways," he says. ‘By separating the production units of the State Road Administration... we will receive five billion dollars in the 10-year period.’ And, on the other hand, ‘We shall transfer SEK 20 billion to transport from other budget areas.’;» And it is quite fine as long as you have money that other parties have invested in these budget areas, but as far as I have gained experience in the last budgetary procedure, then the Progress Party will reduce several tens of billions in minus on taxes and taxes, and my question is, when these are introduced, where will one pick up the extra 20 billions in other budget areas? What's going to be going on? I think that the Progress Party should be quite honest. ‘In total, we are able to increase by SEK 32 billion during the planning period’, says Nistad during the interview. I assume that it's negative compared to the 45 billion that one takes from other areas, among other things. the railway within the same sector. But then finally, despite the fact that the Progress Party has so much money for transportation, it will not be involved in financing highway 1 along the coast, namely Hurtigruta, and despite the fact that we have now concluded agreements that the fast-track companies are to contract two new ships and they are to carry out the transport tasks that we know are so important to the coast. Why doesn't the Progress Party want to be here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e772	We've said openly and honestly that we're reducing in a lot of areas because we want to bet on a road, and we want to bet on a road once and for all. And that's right, as the representative Sahl says, we have said no to the Hurtigruten. We did it last year, while everyone else, including the Right, would give Hurtigruten subsidies of $170 million. kr per. years ahead, and that is for them to drive tourists up the coast and have some sort of monopoly situation on it. It's good and nice to have the Hurtigruten, but we think it can stand on its own legs, and so does it. But we haven't added the 170 million. kr in this budget once, we, so we have them in addition. Then we've said that we want to reduce on the Roadway, and we want 5 pst. savings. The right goes in for 10 pst. And the other ones also go in for some savings. 5 pst. Is far below what the ECON report and everyone else also says, but not to hit it in hardcorn, we have said 5 pst. on the 10 billion budget. And if we're not going to be able to get it through by streamlining and putting it on tenders, I don't understand anything. Then we've said that we won't continue with some railway tunnels. We've taken a clear position in the setting on which sections we want to expand, and which we don't want to expand. These measures have saved us $2 billion. It's the Eidanger tunnel and a lot of others, you can read it in the setting. And then we're going to take $500 million. kr of these back and uses it for increased safety, level crossing securing and construction of some crossing tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e781	The progress party wants to raise the tribal roads higher, said the representative Nistad, and he sees it as an absolute necessity. It's positive. And I have recorded that they have assumed that they want to increase the frame by 8 billion kroner in addition to the government's framework, and they have included 1.2 billion kroner in the framework of the Eastfold package. And that's positive. But what I also see is that they're going to spend their foreign budget on this funding. In 2001, they have allocated SEK 1.5 billion to transport on the foreign budget, i.e. of which, during the first four-year period, it is approx. 6 billion dollars that will go to it. And what you're saying is you're not going to use Norwegian entrepreneurs, you're going to use foreign entrepreneurs. But what has really been the problem with the Eastfold package is financing the package, there has been no problem with entrepreneurs. So my question is, are you going to exclude all Norwegian entrepreneurs and use only Swedish entrepreneurs? And what about the EEA Agreement and the legislation we have there? Another thing that the Progress Party says in the setting is that ‘in order to maintain the acceptable level of the flight offer also on the outskirts, charging reductions for these aerodromes should be made’. And in the next section, they say that they have a principle view that airports should first be converted into independent limited liability companies, and then sold out. It's all right, but it's after all a fact that here in Norway there are only three-four-five airports that go in balance or that go in profit. And then my question is, how has the Progress Party planned to finance these airports when they are going to lower the fees and convert them into independent share companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e788	We don't want to give $8 billion to the tribal roads, we want to give $14 billion to the tribal roads. That's improperly $6 billion more. In addition, the foreign budget, or the oil money, is going to be 15 billion dollars, and it's going to be an even larger sum, so it's going to be even more of a way for the money. The representative asks whether we should only have foreign entrepreneurs and not Norwegians. No, of course not. But we're based on the numbers we've got from the NHO, the construction industry, the transport industry and more, and they say they have 2,000 unemployed in the industry. They have 1,000 that goes on idle, but they still want to hire, so it's 3,000 available. There are 800 trucks available. They can go out into the market today and do a construction work for approx. DKK 2 – 2.5 billion. Then the capacity that the construction industry itself says it has, and the ECON report says it has, used up. We'll build a road for more than 2.5 billion kroner, if you add up the numbers that I mentioned instead. Then we also have to bring others to do that. And what's wrong with a Swede coming up and building the Svinesund Bridge? I can't believe it. I can't understand it. There are many other companies that are in there doing other things. I'm aware that someone in the entrepreneurship industry is starting to yell and sew a little. But first they want to break the Road Service, and then they have to have monopoly themselves. We do not want that. Put the major projects on regular tenders in the EU, and those who can build the Swinesund Bridge will do so at the cheapest cost. Then there were tax breaks and airports. We've got Torp, and it's fine. Among other things, there will be a landing. Ryan Air. And why do they do that? Yeah, because it's the cheapest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e800	For the first time, we are debating a comprehensive plan for the transport sector in Norway. It is a step forward that we have a comprehensive plan for road, rail, aviation and maritime transport. However, as several speakers before me have been involved, I also have comments on the structure of the plan. In the revision of the plan, greater emphasis must be placed on greater coordination between the various modes of transport, so that it is not the same as in this plan, where to a large extent there have been four separate plans gathering within two platforms. Self-construction should also be improved. The proposed transport plan is characterized by the fact that the same theme is repeated several times with different angles. The plan has therefore been very word-rich, and it is partly difficult to find in it. To a greater extent, the emphasis on different modes of transport should also be assessed. In Norwegian transport policy, we are a number of people who pay great attention to the importance of getting a greater part of the goods from car to boat. However, maritime transport has received little mention in the transport plan. National transport plan has not only engaged the Transport Committee in recent times, but also very, very many others around the country. The exposure has shown how much traffic has to say to most people. We talk in many contexts about people having to have the right to choose, the right to choose each will you and how one will arrange their everyday life. Transport policy will be decisive for where people can find it attractive to live and live, where it is possible to find work. People must be able to have the necessary services in a modern society and be able to participate in the social life of the community. Our country is special, both geographically and in terms of the bustet pattern. Large parts of the country have little bustet. At the same time, we know that a lot of natural resources can be found in areas with low brushing. Much of the export-right industry is in the districts. If we are to be able to exploit and develop the foremons we have with large natural resources, we need to facilitate a positive development for all parts of the country in our transport policy. The Labour Party Government, through its National Transport Plan, has not concealed the importance of the proposed plan in resolving the transport challenges in densely built parts of the country. Yes, the challenges in built-in strokes will, of course, be solved, but it will be wrong to solve these challenges by addressing the challenges we face in more pig-headed strokes. We can't solve our big cities' problems just by building more and wider roads. In cities and agglomerations, collective solutions must be an important part of transport solutions. An important task in the future will be to increase the share of private car use in public transport. National transport plan makes a reasonable contribution to collective solutions. Of course, it could be unthinkable to do even more with the organization of collective solutions during the planning period. But also for the collective effort, the economy will delineate progress. The central party will support the Government's proposals on collective action in central districts. In recent years, the budget for transport has been tight. This is because it poses a risk of pressure in the economy, and the transport sector has had to take its share of the tightening up in order to avoid adverse effects on the Norwegian economy. This has led to a reduction in the activity of infrastructure construction, which in turn has caused the construction sector to have many lay-offs today or to a total absence. The ECON report last autumn showed that it would be possible to increase transport investment in 2001 by around NOK 2-3 billion only by using free capacity. Statistics show that in the last few years there has been an increase in available capacity in the construction sector. The available capacity exists for a large part outside the most central areas of the country. The centre party believes it is important to take care of and use this available capacity. We think there is room to use available capacity and invest more in infrastructure in the districts without giving too much pressure to the economy. It has therefore proposed to increase infrastructure investment during the planning period by 900 million. kr per. years. In addition, the Centre Party will use offers to a greater extent than before, especially in the maintenance area. This may also give rise to efficiency gains, which in turn may increase output. I noticed that the case spokespersons, who have probably read the settings carefully, have not come to realize that the centre party will also go in to increase the use of the offer to a greater extent than before. Otherwise, I have noticed with interest that the Workers' Party's representatives in the Committee are also proposing to increase the planning framework by 500 million. kr per. years. This, in my view, is a signal from the Labour Party's population of its own government that the government's emphasis on the transport sector has not been strong enough. I am pleased that the Labour Party’s Storing Group is also involved in giving such a clear signal that it needs to give a stronger emphasis to transport. In the work on the national transport plan, both in the hearings the Committee has had, but perhaps especially in the very many contacts I have had outside the committee hearings, the major needs for greater efforts in the road sector have been strongly underlined. That the road sector is so strongly underlined is understandable. Road is too many of the most important or perhaps only transport years. The road system covers the whole country, and road transport is the largest part of both freight and passenger transport. Of the additions in the framework, the Centerpartie will use most of them for investment in the road sector and, above all, for priority, for a distributed framework. In its proposal to increase in the county-divided framework of the Centre Party, we have stressed the need to correct some of the poor rural profile of the national transport plan. Otherwise, we have put emphasis on states that have very poor road standards, need to repair bottlenecks and many roads that are razed. The centre party has previously been involved in attempts to cooperate between the public and the private in the road sector – OPS. It is important to have the highest possible number of resources deployed in road construction and OPS may be a way of achieving this. The three projects for which there are multiples within the Committee may provide us with experience base to decide on new OPS projects later. The centre party will also use part of the proposed frame increment to strengthen the railway. We have not allocated funds to individual projects, but have pointed to some sections where there is a great need for maintenance and modernisation. We have also identified sections where it may be appropriate to facilitate better collective provision. The centre party has distributed the rampart in road, track and coastal applications. Some of this increase suggests that we should be used for investment. But I want to stress that security must have priority in all transport sectors. The zero vision if no death or life-long injury in traffic must be at the root of the priorities. The maintenance lag is high. Only on the road side will the road follow at the beginning of the road planning period be approx. €9.5 billion Also the railway and maritime wear and tear with large lags on the maintenance. Although security in the transport sector cannot be linked only to maintenance, there is no doubt a link between good maintenance and security. Once I'm in security, aviation must also be mentioned. Many of the airports, especially on the short-haul network, should, for example: had a better approach instrumentation. This would increase security and provide better regularity. The centre party, together with the other two centre parties and the Right, points out that the ferries are part of the road and that the cost of travelling by ferry should not exceed the cost of driving the corresponding section by car. In the last fall of the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party, the discount schemes for businesses and large ferries users were better. It was also agreed that the ferry tariffs should be passed on at the 2000 level. Many have said that they are very satisfied with the budgetary agreement at this point. The central party believes that the outcome of the budgetary agreement should be the first step on a stepping-up plan for this area. The long-term objective should be to achieve the same thing as Sweden and Finland, namely free ferries. Ferry leads to an extra cost in time and money, especially for business and commuters. The disadvantages resulting from being dependent on ferries must be made at least possible. I am therefore surprised that the Labour Party supports a system of time-differentiated ferry tariffs, which can be said to be with and smooth out the demand and reduce the cost of loading. But this could lead to an increase in tariffs at the same times as many people go to work. It is pointed out that attention should be paid to the fact that this should not unduly affect users who are dependent on travelling at specified times. However, on many ferries, commuters are dependent on fixed route departures, and the commuters are likely to suffer at time-differentiated ferry rates. In this setting, an important principle, i.e. the alternative use of a ferry ticket, is implemented. In many coastal communities, we find holiday relief projects that will lead to positive development, including: reduced transport costs and increased value creation. This is largely discussed in the national transport plan. I am therefore pleased that a large majority in the Committee are asking for a broader discussion of the use of ferries subsidiaries. But I have also noticed that the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party strongly draw municipal convergence into the issue of the ferry termination project. I take a lot of distance from such a connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e841	Last November my teammate and the Vice-President of the Centre Party, Åslaug Haga, had a tour around our county where she presented draft new party program for the Center Party. I'll quote a little from the Romanesque leaf, where it's called: ‘The centre party will provide an additional billion to strengthen public transport. The funds shall finance lower tariffs and better quality – in particular in Oslo and Akershus.” Furthermore, Haga presented that the ordinary tariffs for public transport in the Oslo area should be reduced by 20 p.m., young people and students should receive half a price, and the Centre should provide increased subsidies for new investments in materials. Finally, it says in the article in the Roman newspaper that Åslaug Haga says: ‘We hope we can bring with us the rest of the party that better public transport in the Oslo area can provide savings that can just benefit the districts.’ I must admit that I found once again a trap little of what the Vice President of the Central Party presented in Akershus, in the comments and comments of the Central Party in this debate. On the other hand, the proposal from the Centre is that ferry tariffs should be halved, that there should be better discount arrangements for ferries, and that there should be an increase in ferry frequency and better night-time services. That's good, and it's affordable, but, as I said, I don't see anything of Åslaug Hagas' collective action in the notes of the Center Party. I assume that Åslaug Haga, when she travels around as a vice-leader in the party, talks on behalf of the entire Center Party, and that it has nothing to do with her being the first candidate on the Center Party's list in Akershus at the fall election. My question to Jorunn Ringstad is: Are Åslaug Haga Center's transport policy presented according to the program of the Centre Party? And also: Is it the program of the Centre Party or is it the comments of the Centre Party in the setting of the National Transport Plan that describes the party's public transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e861	I showed in my post that even though I expected the case spokesperson to read the settings very carefully, it was perhaps something he had also missed and not got along with. I think I'd like to say the same to Sverre Myrli, who probably hasn't got a comment from the Center Party in the setting that indicates that it's the county councils that have the primary responsibility for the organisation of the public transport. The funds to be used by the county councils are the framework transfers to the county councils, where we have taken away the eartags of public transport. The ear-marked features of public transport have been removed, and they have been incorporated into the framework, so that it is the county municipalities that are responsible for prioritizing what is to be used for public transport – bus or boat. When it's about the central party's hold on how we're going to bet, it's also going to be in the same note. It goes without saying that if we are to increase the level of public transport with the system we have today, we have to increase transfers to the county councils, so that they get an economy that means that they can solve the tasks they're charged with. When it comes to ferries, the situation is that the costs of ferries go over what is our area in the Committee on Transport, Easy Operation and Maintenance. There's a cost of ferrying, so there's a problem, you also have to reduce what goes on ferries. We've seen multiple problems here when the transfers don't get big enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e870	The central party believes that investment in transport is an important prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use both in districts and in cities, and for exploiting the large value creation potential represented by the districts, the development of the secondary national road network will be crucial. This view was absent when the centre party was in government and provided guidance for the road budget. Now you want the fares on the national roads not only to be halved, as Myrli had in mind, but to be free of charge in the long term, and you need to increase the ferry rates and improve the night-trip offer without it being reflected in the financial framework that the Central Party puts up. Increased emphasis will be placed on maritime transport, coastal safety and maritime maintenance, with ports, fairways, lighthouses and brand services, as the Centre Party says, needs to be strengthened, and this is in an increased frame of the Centre Party, accounting for 70 million. kr per. years. If the zero vision, on the basis of which the Central Party has its priorities, has some value, that means that the districts stop. The centre party will also increase the economic framework of the national transport plan by 900 million. kr per. years. This is no more than what is needed to ensure that the maintenance and road capital that we all have are not degraded. The centre party was involved in the construction of the opera, and the location was determined for Bjørvika, but the batch will re-dispose funds destined to improve traffic conditions in the area to a divided frame. How will the Center Party avoid chaos in the area? And does the Central Party think that this is a good transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e879	It is certainly only the Progress Party that, with its almost unlimited resources for all possible good ends, can have a goal of achieving all that they want, in a few years. The center party has pointed out in its comments what is important to us, and what we want to focus on. That doesn't mean we think with our addition we can solve all the problems in the first four years, or the ten coming years for that part. Just as the other party has said what's important to them, so have we. But we haven't said that we're solving all these challenges during the planning period that we're now discussing. When it comes to Bjørvika, to take it concretely, the national transport plan states that there is a project that has a very large ice-cream of urban development in it. The centre party has said that a project that has such a big ice spot of urban development in itself is not right to go within the perfunctory framework of transport. It is also not fully funded, and it also states that a condition is that it should be fully financed. When the representative Stensaker connects this to the decision on opera, it is likely that the representative Stensaker should read the setting in the case of opera, for it is stated in the decision that the project that was then agreed should not be linked to the development of transport in the area. And the plans for the opera that was attached were also such that it would not be necessary to develop a road system there as well as what is. It was added 50 million. kr, and that would be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e888	In the drafting of the National Transport Plan, the Central Party proposes to increase the appropriations for transport by DKK 3.6 billion in the coming planning period. Few things would delight us more than if there had been a majority in this Chamber for a massive increase in the appropriations for transport in the annual budget. Not least in my and the representative Jorunn Ringstad's common home state, Sogn and Fjordane, this is necessary. When I'm not quite enthusiastic about the proposal of the Center Party, it's because of the experience with the existing 1997 plan, which we've been through several times, where the Center Party was together with the Right about a significant lifting in the plan paper. Unfortunately, only the right of the conciliators have followed this up in their principal budget. What, then, is it really going to mean that the central part promise of more money for transportation is more to trust now than at the previous crossroads? I also remember that the representative Ringstad in the media in the Central Party's time of government has been sloppy close to distrust of his own government, without having any effect whatsoever on the party's position regarding the annual draft budget. What kind of instruments does Jorunn Ringstad have in the coming period that can further affect the central party's budgetary position, so that it can be similar to what one wants to promise in election campaigns and in long planning documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e899	In order to use the representative Hoddevik's own words, I believe I would say that I would not allow myself to be ‘enthusiastic’ of Right's great promises when it comes to means of transport. Rightly Sverre Hoddevik says that it is only the Right who has followed up his promises in principal proposals during this period. Yes, but what helps with principle promises if the same party, Right, when it's going to cooperate to find multiple solutions, isn't willing to give priority to transportation high? Then everything else is going to be given priority first, and then it's not easy to get excited that in a proposal on the right, there's a lot of money set up for transportation. Right has had two chances during this four-year period of being involved and really doing a boost for transportation. I had actually hoped that the center government, when it was going to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party, would get drag help to increase the means of transport. But none of those years came a penny more – not a penny more for transportation. There was a little movement within the different areas of transportation, but not a penny more on the transportation frame, the two-year central government cooperated with the Right and the Advance Party. But there have been a few small ones after we left our cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party and went over to work with the Labour Party. Then there have been a few small things – not big enough in my view, but at least it has the will to give priority to the right hand movement than the Progress Party and Right has done. So the enthusiasm that is missing from the Right and the representative Hoddevik, I can only go back to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e904	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e907	Politics is wild. That was Olof Palme's word. When we look at the objectives and results of the plans put forward in the 1990s, we can see that transport policy is staggering on the seas of willlessness – because there is no link between objectives and instruments. Without willingness to use instruments, the objectives become wishful thinking. Then, after every four years, we can sum up that we haven't come a step further, repeat the beautiful goals, and focus on a development that we don't want. Then we live on with high accident rates, environmental problems and the closure of the districts – the opposite of what we want. I'm going to have a little memory of political inability, trying to refresh the political memory. When we listen to the posts today, and read in the setting, there's a lot of concern for the railway. Majorities and minorities in different variants are concerned about safety, punctuality and regularity, so that the railway does not win market shares. Yes, because it is a common goal that we want passenger and freight transport from road to rail. There are about 10 positions in the configuration. But I don't hear marine search. I hear criticism from the NSB and the Railway Agency. The composer shoots at the pianist because he doesn't like the tune. This is the third time I agree to treat transport plans. The first time was in 1993. Let me mutter. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV said in 1993 when considering the Norwegian railway plan: ‘The majority have noticed that the notification points out that the railway has been neglected in respect of investments over a number of years.’ And it goes on: ‘The majority agree with the Government that points out that we are now at a crossroads with regard to the role of the railway, and that if a person wishes to benefit from the transport qualities and environmental benefits offered by rail transport, it is necessary to invest considerable resources in the coming years.’ The same majority point to the loss of market share in the railway and say that ‘this development must be reversed’ and repeat the conditions: ‘This majority therefore agree that the negative trend towards rail cannot be reversed without considerable resources being invested to improve rail infrastructure and material.’ It said the Committee majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV, eight years ago. The left couldn't say that, because they weren't here. Where did the significant resources of the neglected area come from? The extraordinary investment bid in 1993 of DKK 5 billion disappeared as dew for the sun. The majority were not found out of the roadshed. It didn't go the road, or we'll say, it went right west with the goal of getting the railway on the track. Instead of going into the sea, many of my honorary co-representatives both here and in the media choose to criticise the NSB and the Railway Agency. Media cultivates it without critical questions. Let me illustrate the desire to do something and the inability to do it. The majority of the Stortinget have asked that the railway «questions relating to road tax, value added tax and investment tax» be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Is something happening? No, no, no. The Ministry of Finance is training, and the Ministry of Transport is holding hands – not only today's Minister of Transport, but also in the past. When we know that the airlines do not pay an investment fee on the aircraft, that there is no investment fee on the vehicle combinations on the roads, why should we go year after year without being able to remove the investment charge on the train equipment – when we all say that we want to strengthen the competitiveness of the railway? When we in SV today propose that the investment levy be removed from the revised national budget, even parties to which the Progress Party and the Right vote do not even come to vote, parties which have tradition of removing fees over a low shoe. Neither are the parties that are happy in the railway going to vote for it. Something might happen next year, maybe. But it should have happened a long time ago, and that's now the NSB is renewing its material and putting itself in debt. Don't the parties have the ability to see the impropriety, and do they not have the ability to remove an unfairness quickly? There is probably not Viagra who can help against this political impotence, this inability in this assembly to carry out what such a heartfelt desire. However, proposing a business cycle fee, changing it and removing it in a few months, is possible. Removing a fee you want to remove, on the other hand, and which has been there for a long time, is not possible. We live with the railway network of the past, with capacity problems, with a road that does not allow speed improvements and by trains that have to stop and wait for crossing trains. It should have gotten out on the road! I know if any single brother, that's okay. Then we can't expect the train to win the fight against the car. We cannot expect the operator to offer us an offer of the quality that our time requires. The majority of the Committee sees bad regularity and lack of punctuality. The NSB may be better – yes, yes – but the main reason is on the railway network. It's a responsibility for this room. The majority in this room is running with pious desires and surmagic criticism of the NSB, instead of doing the job we're going to do. And let me go back to 1993. It wasn't just general desires. What did not a majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV say in 1993? Yes, that these parties ‘in particular, request that the extent of the deployment of E18 in Westfold and E6 in Eastfold be carefully assessed in relation to the deployment of the railway on the same routes’. That's what a majority said. The majority has had a majority all along since then. We'll remember that. What did it become in Westfold? A forced extension of the E18 to the four-field motorway, while the railway lies there with its single track – and a few hundred metres from time to time – and the trains line the farm for 70 km/h next to a four-field motorway. What's going on in Eastfold? Well, the double track ends before Moss, a little bit on the other side, so it seems to be stopping for a while, with some diffuse plans for continuation once in the future, while we now stand in front of a large-scale expansion of E6 to the four-field highway throughout the county. The funding is in place. There is no problem – despite the fact that the majority that was in 1993 has had a majority since then. The majority will make the railway a winner. They will increase safety, improve punctuality and reduce travel time. Then we have to invest. Therefore, SV proposes to increase the level of investment to DKK 3 billion per year. Then we can realize Skøen–Asker and Oslo–Ski within the planning period, and we have another half of the investment pot left. We can do something, not just in the metropolitan area of Oslo. We get double tracks on the railway from Stavanger to Sandnes and from Bergen to Arna. We still have the money left to continue a double track on the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway – and perhaps the Eidanger Tunnel – while at the same time providing for tilt trains on the Kongsvinger Railway. We can quickly implement the profile extension of tunnels on the Nordlandsbanen and Bergensbanen, and facilitate the provision of semi-trailers on the train. This is an environmental policy and road safety strategy. The safest way to travel is the train, despite the accidents we've had. The most dangerous way to travel is road traffic. Moving traffic from road to road is saving life and health. If we connect the railway operation with urban development in Stavanger and Bergen and Oslo Metro, for example, we have taken some important steps in the collective effort in our cities, combined with the bus. We have to bet collectively. The offer must be good, with good frequency and quality and reasonable price. In the 1970s, a bus or tram ticket in our big cities – where you had a tram – probably cost about the same thing as a litre of petrol. Today it costs two to two and a half times more. Well, then, it's not nice that public transport loses. In the 1990s, with the exception of SV, all batches involved 54 million. kr per year for years from the counties in so-called efficiency gains on public transport. The result was poorer and more expensive public transport. I have also registered that the Progress Party and the Right writes in the setting: ‘These members have noticed that the EU wants a stronger commitment to public transport and that the same effort must also take place in Norway.’ Same bet! The Progress Party and the Right have not noticed is the EU study covering 140 European cities, which shows that the average subsidy rate for bus transport is 49 pst. in these cities, and for carriage by road, including metro systems and trams, it is 63 pst. Then you can get a cheap and good offer. In other words, in the EU, public funding goes up above the Norwegian level. They're betting on the collective. In Germany, the Land spends DKK 40 billion a year on public purchases of train services – the public pays two thirds of the train ticket. On the SV side, we are informed. We are proposing to increase government purchases from just under $1 billion to NOK 1.5 billion. It is still a long way to reach EU level for the purchase of train services. If we don't compare ourselves to the British, as the Advance Party and the Right clearly admires. For there the railway is completely split up and privatized. Liability conditions are unclear and there are many serious accidents. The Norwegian accidents are almost reported in relation to the situation in the United Kingdom. Prices are significantly above the Norwegian level. Track competition and – to say the least – track chaos. If that's what you want, you can follow them. Last autumn SV proposed carrots for public transport, i.e. input-driven financing. At that time we were down against our votes. But I now see that the rest of the Storting thinks it's a reasonable idea. They were probably so shocked in the autumn that SV used market mechanisms, that they therefore did not dare vote in favour. But it's only the Right who is willing with us to put money in the pot, and it has to be if you don't want to rap the money from the transfers to the county councils. Then there will be no better public transport. So I have to say a little bit about going and cycling. Because it's actually healthy. 60 pst. the number of journeys by car is less than 5 km and 28 pst. is less than 2 km. It is a great potential if walking and cycling roads are provided in cities and agglomerations. So we mean we're going to oblige cities and towns to make plans for it. Now I registered that the Progress Party chattered a little with the Right over their intentions when it applied to bikes here instead. Then I just want to say, it can be good physical discharge to bike. I have to spend the rest of my precious time in the districts. We have to put the whole country into action. However, I have problems seeing the sense of the great road traffic in central struts as the districts go too lye and cold water. It is that it is where values are often created. The fish is there, the farm, the industry. My part of the country has been the major loser in investment in the 1990s. There's gone north and down – this despite everyone talking about reducing the distance drawbacks. I can't put on any overhead, so I have to tell you about the numbers. During the 1986-1989 planning period, North Norway had 24.6 pst. of the means of transport. Then it's been gradually going down for every planning period, and the worst we've had so far was it with center management and a little work party. Then we came down to 14.3 pst. But don't you think the proposal from the government of Stoltenberg was even worse? Now it's fixed a little bit with the addition that finally came, but there I've calculated 12.3 pst. If it continues so much longer, we have to pay back in 20-30 years. Then we'll be in debt. This downturn cannot be justified by the fact that the problems are solved, because in the north as in the west we have European roads where car trains can barely meet before they are overturned in the ditch. We have rascals, many bottlenecks. We have weights there are problems in keeping winter openings, so there is a lot of need. I want to concentrate on road investment in the West and in North Norway, and then I concentrate on rail and collective investment in the East and in the big cities. Then you kind of have a whole policy. Then I have to skip these nasty environmental interventions, Lofast, Ulvenvatnet, Melhus and Orkanger, and continue with the district profile. There is a good suggestion for an upper toll rate, for some places it becomes very expensive. The spring connection is going to be 145 kroner each way, a little bit cheaper at FATIMA. There we propose a ceiling of 80 kroner and then a debt cancellation. It won't be more than a little over 300 million. kr, and it is significantly smaller than the Gardermoban. So it should go. Then I should have talked a lot about air fares in the districts. There have been a lot of weird messages in the media in the last few days that now it's getting cheaper to fly. Then I read the comments of the majority – total wool, just a little air bubble. There's nothing concrete about it. Can anyone tell me what that means, how much it means, or is it just a way of writing away from a debate that you were embarrassed by? We have a concrete proposal to reduce flight prices, but no one is voting for it. That's the end of the time. Then I just get to say: politics is too willy, and then I get to bring up the proposals that we've put in, and the proposals we're co-sponsored to that that's not already taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e984	The representative Myrvoll has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e989	I noticed that the representative Myrvoll in his post prescribed a medicine that only works on men. SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, has earlier this week talked about moving with mouse-skrit in politics, and it doesn't go fast as we know it. Now no one can accuse SVs Inge Myrvoll of moving with mouse chalk in the national transport plan, at least not in the railway sector. Rather on the contrary; the representative Myrvoll has taken on the seven-mile boots, and even the most eager railway riders of us have to ask questions as to whether there is realism in SV's 18 billion SEK railway operation. Does the representative Myrvoll really think that it would have been possible if there had been a majority for it, or is it ‘thinking of a number’ that is fun to use in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e996	I don't ignore that if the girls had had greater power in many of the parties that are here, we would have had a better bet on collective and rail transport, on the environment and safety than we have today. It's asked if it's not the people we have to get political potents as long as they're in such positions of power, so they also join. But I'll see if I can find more suggestions for medicine. I don't have an idea right now. Yes, museskritt and seven-mile boots. – If this is the case, and there are many who have done, too, I believe, in the Workers’ Party, that we largely live by the railway of the past, that from 1963 until the 1990s almost nothing happened to the railway, and if you were to get it on the track – you are talking about a road divide in 1993, a road divide to get it on the track, to say it like that – it actually had to have a significant lift to it. The working party also wants the railway to win people and goods off the road, but then it must be beneficial to use it. Should this be possible, the railway actually has to compete with road traffic. The railway is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. In addition, it is the one with the highest potential for speed increases for time gains. You have railways, for example. The Westfold course, which runs for 70 km an hour. Of course, if you average it to go to 160, you have over half of the driving time. It's fully possible at a top speed of 200. Yeah, it's going to be a big lift, but I actually think it's possible to take a big lift. The working party is known to take some major uplifts historically during certain periods. They built some railways in their time, but then there was an abrupt stop when the Nordlandsbanen was finished to Bodø, and then you haven't started again. I feel that one of my tasks is to be a driver for the Workers' Party to get back on track again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1004	As a representative of the politically impotent men, I nevertheless take the chance of challenging the very so powerful representative of Inge Myrvoll. I believe in many ways that Inge Myrvoll has started the collection of his political memoirs with the history that we have now witnessed. I can comfort Inge Myrvoll that in the case of the investment fee, it is, after all, a majority in this room who have made sure that it will be removed from March next year. So SV has been high on the track in terms of flight prices. Unfortunately, the representative Myrvoll didn't have time to say so much about it, but I'm going to give him an opportunity now. He probably wasn't happy that the center parties got into the prep this time. Now we're not so busy with percentages that we're outside to get a majority for the cause. Besides, we're with SV in terms of the main route network, but unfortunately there's another majority in the hall that goes against it. SV has a high environmental profile, but in the case of air fares, this is attenuated, and then to flourish too fully in a 30-year-old road cause in our common home state, that is, the mainland link of Lofoten. So here, SV will not listen to the people. Nor will they listen to the great crowd, who have said in several rounds that this should be completed. Here the fight is to be continued into the next majority period. Here there's no joy in big business in your own home state, no, here's 900 million. kr may be lost or pushed out after 2011 in order for it to be realised. I find that the road today ends in the mountain wall, and that SV takes the chance that it will end up like this for all future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1015	It must be an obvious misunderstanding that I'm not going in to complete Lofast, but I'd like to complete it to Sigerfjord, which is a more environmentally friendly alternative, and we've also put money here. It's an obvious misunderstanding. I don't realize that the centre parties choose the most conflicty option either. So it was this story thing. Yeah, I told you I'd have a memory. This is my last big debate, so it'll be a little bit of a memory. But I mean that what the parties say, you have to be able to rely on four years after, eight years after, and twelve years after. There must be a team in what has been said in previous settings, and one must try to follow it up and not just repeat the beautiful formulations again and again without implementing it. In fact, I think it's okay to go back and look at what you've said, and then compare with what you've done. So to this with flight prices. What we're in common about in proposals, about the main route network, we're not saying that it's going to be cheaper, we're asking for an investigation whether it's possible to put it on public purchases. That proposal promoted SV in 1998, and it was then voted against our votes, one outbreak from the Workers' Party and Bastesen. I'm glad the center now wants it figured out. But what is specific about air fares is going on the regional grid, the short-haul network. And if the representative Sahl in his post, which he's going to have later, is able to explain to me the formulations that lie there, where it says that there are lower prices, how it should be done and how much lower they are, then I'll listen sympathetically and see if I get it. I have not understood that comment. And it is that if you have an unclear message that is not very good, you wrap it into words that make it incomprehensible. If you have a good message that you want to reach people, you use it to formulate it so that people understand it. Fuzzy speech means it's an unclear message.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1026	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1029	It's an extensive process we're putting behind us today, as it's got a lot of interest around it. After visiting all the counties to get an idea of the need for infrastructure, it almost feels like going to the exam. In the context of the management of the national transport plan, we have been invited to address many fundamental issues that are important for the future development of infrastructure and transport in Norway. For the Left, there are two main objectives: strong collective action in the urban areas and yellow stripe on the roads of District Norway. This will improve and ensure emergence. The left is satisfied with a comprehensive transport plan, but it is clear that the lack of analytical tools to document investment in the transport sector will achieve the objectives set will weaken the plan. Have we been given a plan that takes height to the changes that will take place over the next ten years, which is heightening so that new technology can change our travel habits – or the need to travel? Do the proposals in the National Transport Plan take heights to meet developments in the pre-Norwegian economy? Coast Norway needs e.g. an offensive and innovative transport policy, not least in view of the value creation devoted to aquaculture and marine industries. The left considers it unfortunate that responsibility for the transport sector is divided into several departments. It is difficult to achieve an efficient transport system and good coordination between the efforts of different modes of transport and the means of transport. At the same time, we believe that the responsibility for operating means of public transport should lie in the same department that is responsible for infrastructure. This will allow a better focus on real priority between means of operation and development. We therefore see it as desirable to assess whether responsibility for all transport sectors should be placed in the same department, so that the funds that are currently being channelled over the local and regional ministry's framework are transferred to that department. The left wants a clearer division of roles and responsibilities within the transport sector. The public uses a lot of resources on traffic, and it's important that we use these best. The various sectors must be organised in such a way as to ensure effective operation and competition. The left is therefore in favour of the production departments of the State Road Administration, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Aviation Agency and the NSB BA being organised as a limited liability company. By making consistent use of supply through maintenance and development, there will be opportunities to increase efforts in the construction and operation of the necessary infrastructure and in relation to collective effort. On the left, one has to distinguish between the roles of things, performers and supervisors within all sectors. For this reason, we are part of a proposal to place the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority under a different department than is currently the case. If we are to achieve zero vision – no harm or killing within the transport sector – we must be willing to use an instrument that can significantly interfere with the individual's right of self-determination. The left is a co-proposal for a proposal to create a common accident commission. It is important to use the expertise and experience existing in the various transport sectors in determining both the cause of the accident, the identification of risk factors and the prevention of accidents. Investment in transport has considerable socio-economic benefits and can facilitate major structural changes both in the private and public sectors. The existing budgetary system makes it difficult to see this context in government budgets. The left is on a plural note that points to both the economic gain at e.g. Community approach, closer cooperation between public authorities and change in the zoning of employer charges should be considered as being used for the financing of road projects. However, the Left will go even further than its plurality and will decide that ferry services will be used for financing. These are issues that Stortinget will be able to address in the context of the 2002 government budget. The left says that the framework proposed by the Government for the construction and operation of our infrastructure over the next ten years is too low. So we're going in to increase the frame by $9 billion in the period 2002-2011. In addition, by opening up more efficient operations and increasing competition, one will have more resources for infrastructure construction and increased effort in terms of operation, maintenance and collective effort. By e.g. Making use of Public Private Cooperation, which is a new form of road construction organisation, will enable one to realise more important transport projects than is now the case in the majority. The left has been disappointed that the majority do not want to try out more than three projects, three very similar projects. When one sees the lack of priority when it comes to community development, it is very disappointing that there is no willingness to enforce the development of e.g. an urban railway in Bergen by such organisation. Projects which also do not need government funding, such as the Atlantic Tunnel, could also have been tested as a OPS project. On an incursion, the Left is included in a comment from the Right and the Progress Party on page 84 of the option to include in the toll approval project that does not require government permission. City and country are mutually dependent on each other. It should be good to live in both pig-grown and densely built struts. It requires different policy solutions, especially when it comes to transport. After the Left's view, the pillars of traffic must be safety and environmental considerations. We need to secure safe and efficient transport corridors for people and businesses. Specific environmental and health problems in built-up areas require targeted action. Road investment needs to be directed towards providing better security and environment in cities and improving road standards, maintenance, race protection and other rural security measures. Left wants more people to choose bicycles as a means of emergence and to develop a national bike strategy to achieve this objective. In order to achieve the objective of transferring more goods from road to sea, investments in and updating of fairways, brands and lighthouses must be a high priority task. It is important to focus on electronic mapping and new technologies that can help increase security. We cannot build ourselves away from the distances Norway has to export markets, but we should ensure that transport can be carried out without significant obstacles. The left wants to increase the licenses for road investment by 650 million. kr per. years during the period. We have prioritised tribal roads with poor standards, such as E16 through Sogn and Fjordane and Oppland as well as E6 through Nordland. In line with a survey of the need to invest in roads that do not drive traffic through Oslo, we have also prioritised the resolution of bottlenecks and accident-related sections of the E39. In addition, as a large majority, we will have forced the launch of Lofoten's continental connection. We decided to give priority to the counties within the borders of the national roads, and wanted to increase the borders to the poor state of road standards, the counties with large racial protection projects and the counties that have had a low frame as a starting point. In addition, I would like to have my own breed protection post. The left looks at the development of the railway network around our cities as an important investment to get more people to travel collectively, and so we'll increase the number of permits for this by 500 million. kr per. year(s) in the next 10 years. I am pleased that there are several numbers to start up the construction of double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger. But we in the Left are telling us that there is no plurality to bet on collective development in Bergen – neither double tracks through Ulriken, which would increase the capacity of Bergensbanen, nor the construction of a city track by using OPS funding or direct running. Forced tunnel expansion through Gevingåsen would be a major contribution to increasing the capacity of the Trunder Railway. And bottleneck number. 1 on today’s rail track – the lack of double tracks between Skøyen and Asker – would also come faster with Left’s bet. In addition, the Left will stand on its promises when it comes to managing the Eastfold package, by prioritising railway operations during the first part of the planning period. With its frame, we would have completed both the Oslo-Ski and the Westfold Railway considerably faster. In addition, there would be room for promises to renew the T-Bahn in Oslo and for strengthening general maintenance. A joint committee agrees that regional coordination of road planning across county boundaries is important. So it's a little strange that a Left doesn't support its proposal to create a collective transport cooperation council in the Oslo region. I would like to make this proposal. The left wants results-driven funding for public transport, and we are very pleased that the Right has now wanted to give priority to collective investment and to allow money for this. But if we use the resources we have in the transport sector today, one will also be able to finance this from the left's point of view. The left is in favour of improving the efficiency of the competitive environment, and we want to use the means we get out of it to give priority to public transport. We also expect the Government to come back to the Stortinget on a matter of youth cards in the context of the revised national budget. The left is concerned with solving the environmental and traffic problems in our metropolitan areas. It is therefore necessary to give priority, and the Left is pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are some of us in that it is in the metropolitan areas one in the first row should be investing in collective transport solutions. I hope I will come to an expression later on in handling matters in Stortinget. We currently have a lack of developed collective fields along the roads. It is, therefore, a pity to note that a large number of people in this room want to open up for testing schemes where private cars are released on runways that ought to be a priority for public transport. This will have major consequences both for the safety of passengers by collective means of transport and for the possibilities for arriving at the time that one had planned to arrive. The national transport plan shall be the plan for the future deployment and operation of the infrastructure needed. Nevertheless, in the annual management of the State budget, the Stortingen will set the framework for promises. The left will work to ensure that the government budget is in line with the priorities set by the Left in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1103	The representative Vihovde has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1108	I was a little startled when the representative from the Left said that they had come into a comment from the Right and the Advance Party that they wanted to get out of. Then, like me, I saw that they were going out of all the good proposals that stand as joint proposals from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. Usually, the centre – I say the centre of all three – is opposed to any attempt to modernise, improve efficiency and release in the transport sector. But in dealing with this matter, the Left has, in many comments and in many proposals, joined the Progress Party and the Right, and they have broken with the others in the center. They have supported the proposal for a joint accident commission, which I am very pleased with. They have agreed to convert the Road Administration’s production department into a limited liability company. They have agreed to convert the Railway Agency’s production department into a limited liability company. They want to convert NSB goods into a limited liability company, and they want to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company. Is this a new twist in parts of the center, or is there just a passing bluff in this plan? Now, with what the left here is inside, can we see an approximation to a slightly larger block?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1115	The representative Nistad finally asked in the line if there was an attempt to approach a new block that the left now kind of stood on the program that we've gone to before. I don't know what kind of block the representative Nistad sees, but with the proposals for huge investments that the Progress Party puts into this, at least I don't think it's appropriate for the Progress Party to have the ambition to be part of such a new block. The left has always been busy with simplification, efficiency and the most efficient use of the resources that the public uses. There was a debate here with the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leaders where we also addressed what is happening in a simpler Norway, simplification of legislation that benefits individuals, where we were very disappointed with the answer from the Prime Minister, when he was largely busy with the major system changes. And when the Labour Party is unable to grasp the system changes and the simplification that are needed in the transport sector, and use the means that are put at the disposal as effectively as possible, it is a great deal of hope for the Left. We are on our program, we want to use private operators for the construction and operation of Norwegian transport to make the most of the money, and we don't see any sense in having a huge entrepreneur like the State Road Administration's production department, which is the giant in the construction industry in Norway, and which is in a way to protect competition. We want to have the private players with to make the best use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1124	In contrast to the Labour Party, the Left is very pleased that the Left is following up and preparing to implement a number of positive system reforms in this sector. Because on the same line with the left, we're concerned that this is an area where someone really has the opportunity to get more out of the money. And just like the Left, the Right is also concerned about having a good and effective collective offer. But it's often that it's their closest one being most disappointed when they don't set up, and there's a couple of points that I'm surprised left doesn't support. How can it be that the Left is not in favour of the free establishment of express buses? The free establishment of express buses would result in a significantly better collective offer across large parts of the country, while providing the NSB with a completely necessary competition on a number of routes, thus providing users with a significantly better offer. Nor does the left stand up with regard to our proposal and the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 10, that, as a general rule, one should use competitive outsourcing in the purchase of maintenance and development services by the State. It particularly amazes me with the background of the article that Vihovde had, where she put great emphasis on the outsourcing of competition. And the same is true of the proposal to have the national road ferry link suspended for competition. I think the Stortinget deserves an explanation as to why the Left does not set up in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1133	The left is a fan of the state being able to enter and purchase transport services from those operating collectively, whether the express buses or the railways. When we hesitate to say full freedom of establishment for the express buses and link it up to routes, it is because today the state is using public funds to direct both towards the express buses and towards the purchase of passenger services via the railways. And then we kind of have to make a choice and say, "Where are we going to put these money?" Difor, we're reluctant to have a free establishment. But we want a freer establishment for these express bus networks than it is today, where it is not in competition with the railways. We can, for example: Look at the county of Bent Höie and I come from – I come from a country a little further north, then – where one has got the Coastal Bus that drives without public support, and is in the process of competing out another actor that also drives without public support, that is, the Flag Route. But it has our will to open up to competition, but both then operate without public support. So the representative, Höie, wonders that we are not in favour of absolutely all proposals for free competition and putting off competition. When it comes to what's going on on the national road trip, we're actually a little bit hesitant. There have been some attempts, and we want a full evaluation of them. This is because we see that if you want a package to be competitive, you need to create total packages where you do not just take the most profitable distribution routes, but link them up to larger supply packages. We think it's coming, but we want to wait until these attempts are on the table, because we're not quite sure that one gets as much efficiency gain as the Right and the Progress Party mentions in their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1142	I hope that the representative Vihovde does not carry a secret dream of transferring Sveio to Rogaland. It would be a terrible loss for Hordaland County. A strong political focus has gradually been on public transport. That's good. In our largest cities in particular, public transport plays an increasingly important role. In this context, let me remind you that in the 2001 budget, 65 million extra dollars were put in place for the big cities in the centre-to-work agreement. But let me start from the Bergens area, where the collective challenges are specific and comprehensive. To meet this, the Bergen programme has been developed. This large and partly toll-funded collective promise for Bergen is based on two major projects, the Ringveg West and the city railway. It is very important that the pace is now kept up, and I am very pleased that a broad majority of the Committee is behind the comment on the Bergen programme, where a request for toll collection to start on 1 January 2002. But this presupposes that the Ringweg West is started first. Until now, the left has raised doubts about the priorities set locally in the Bergen programme. My question to the representative Vihovde will therefore be: Has Left changed its opinion, so that the party supports the launch of Ringveg West as soon as possible – as the party's support for the Bergens area comment strongly indicates?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1153	I can reassure the representative Folkvord that I don't want Sveio to Rogaland. And if he had sewn that the Workers' Party was involved in a plural proposal on bicycle and pedestrian development in the beer, the beer had also revised its application, which I have been promised. So to the collective bet. I am very disappointed that the Labour Party will not go further in saying that it is investing in public transport, for example. the participation and maintenance of the urban railway – which is part of the Bergen programme – by providing it with OPS funding. The representative People's Word asks, "What does the Left want?" In a comment, I have said very clearly that the left wants to prioritize the city road first, leading the Ringweg West. We think that the Ringveg West and the road repair there can be done in another way, but that it is important to put in place a collective solution. I feel that the Workers' Party has raised doubts about whether they are really willing to join in and promote a proper collective effort in Bergen, by raising the city track. I think it's important now to focus on a place and say if we really want to bet collectively in Bergen. It could have been given if one had given priority to the city track first, and it could have been given if one had been willing to join in and build double tracks through Ulriken – quickly. But the Labour Party is not willing to do that. So we've challenged the Christian People's Party and the Center Party a little bit. The left will, of course, wait for the Bergen program to be dealt with in Stortinget. We're going to see what we've prioritized. But we have been very clear that we give priority to public transport, leading to large road investments in our large urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1168	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1171	It's nice with the transport sector: everyone wants a lot of trains, but they don't want to see them – much less hear them. Nor are there so many who want to see and hear airplanes, but nevertheless Norway is completely dependent on tribal routes and regional air routes. In the case of road development, a quick understanding that ‘car’ is a shell word can be found. Nevertheless, in most places the car is the best means of transport people have. Even the most targeted environmentalists use a car for their protest meetings. In the context of the examination of the national transport plan, the Committee has had many visits by stakeholder organisations, all of which have had something to contribute to. Even those who sometimes suggest that funds for the transport sector need to be reduced in favour of other sectors have come and asked for more money. The overall objective of the national transport plan is safety. Security is a broad concept. It includes ensuring warning systems for trains, aircraft and boats, and that means not least road safety, where most accidents occur. We can't afford to lose more people in traffic. Behind every accident is suffering, sorrow and despair, and then I haven't mentioned what a great loss it is for society as well. Attitude-building work must start in kindergarten. There is a need to make an effective effort to teach young people respect for horsepower and, in particular, to teach adult people respect for traffic rules. In this context, the training of driving licences must be evaluated and improved. It is desirable that the school should take greater responsibility for this training. I have experience that there is not much enthusiasm for motorsport in all circuits. But I would nevertheless like to stress that young people can benefit from participating in organised motorsports under skilled management on approved training courses, which can be used for the training and competition venues for both motorcycles, go-karts and motorsports at a lower level. At such facilities young people can learn to control vehicles in a safe environment. I want to give Norwegian Motorcycle Union a boost because they have started training for motorcycle drivers. The Committee points out in its position that frequent controls are an effective tool. In the national transport plan, the Government has pointed to the need to reduce the speed limit on some accident-related routes. In this context, it is important to point out that rules must seem right if people are to have respect for them. The Road Traffic Act states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Vehicles shall adapt their speed to location, driving, visibility and traffic conditions in such a way that there is no danger or inconvenience to others.’;» The working party has therefore underlined that a general reduction in the speed limit should not be opened, but that this should only be used on very special road sections and that this should be decided in consultation with local road authorities. I would like to say a little bit about what everyone is talking about, namely the level of taxation in the transport sector, even if charges are dealt with in the Ministry of Finance and in the Committee on Finance. I'm glad the Workers' Party found a reason to add 500 million. kr for the period of investment at regional airports. For many years, the demand for return in the Aviation Agency has resulted in difficulties for the Aviation Agency in following up its investment programme. I'm not saying of course that 500 million. kr during this period will solve the many tasks the Aviation Agency has, but it is a start, and it is sad that no more lots than SV and the Workers' Party see this. The working party is concerned that the framework conditions must be predictable, long-term and stable for air carriers as well as for the aviation industry, and that the return requirement must be adapted to the financial situation of the Aviation Agency. The Committee has received several requests for expensive regional air tickets. A unanimous committee therefore asks the Ministry of Transport to assess the maximum price level and the timetable for the next call for tenders. The current maximum price level was fixed by the Government of Bondevik in the course of the previous invitation to tender. I just want to mention in a statement that this should have been evaluated then. When this was not done, the government must take responsibility for this as well. With regard to the level of fees charged by air carriers, there is a matter for the Financial Committee. However, the Committee has pointed out that Norwegian-based aviation must have predictable, long-term and internationally competitive framework conditions. The polluter-pays principle is the right principle for all transport operations. In this context, it should be emphasised that in the case of aviation, airlines and we as passengers pay more than twice the total cost of society for environmental impacts, accidents, infrastructure, etc. through special taxes, taxes and charges. It is also worth noting that the overall level of taxes and taxes on aviation is significantly higher in Norway than in countries with which we compete. This creates a competitive disadvantage not only for aviation in Norway but also for Norwegian businesses in general and for tourism in particular. In order to limit future climate emissions, an alternative to charges at international level could be trading in allowances. I come from a district that doesn't have an airport, either a port, and Hedmark is therefore totally dependent on good road connections and a safe railway. In this context, it must be allowed to state that the national transport plan proposes the possibility of carrying out important road projects in Hedmark. Building roads takes time. It is enough to mention municipal plans, county plans and the choice of road rag – all this will be approved. In order to avoid delays, it is therefore important to start work where the plans have been completed and approved. Rv2 is a good example in this way. Similarly, I would like to mention that it is important that there are no remaining sections to prevent the road from being fully exploited. That is why I am also pleased that Løten has been mentioned in the National Transport Plan for the Rehabilitation of Rv 3 – in fact, without the support of the Centre Party, which also has the rapporteur in the Løten municipality. In the end, I want to say something about the railway, which we all like to drive with, but it assumes that the train is safe and coming when it should. That is why I now hope, by the fact that the Committee has increased the framework for the railway, that the safety equipment at the Rørosbanen will be put in place and put into service as soon as possible. The railway works are in the process of securing dangerous level crossings. It's absolutely necessary, and I hope there's room to complete stations that have begun. It will not be cheaper for a person to move machines and workers from half a job, then to have to go back and finish the work later. I have a wish that, in the future, we will avoid plant closures in semi-finished projects. This costs and seems incomprehensible to people the most. I therefore attend the final work at a station located in my municipality, namely Strange Station. This was actually supposed to be completed in 2001, and I hope we now see the end of that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1218	National transport plan is a major plan. It shall provide the national infrastructure and the individual modes of transport shall be seen in the context. This point is underlined by the various fractions of the Committee, which indicates that the national transport plan is the first overall transport plan for the country. So one can ask the question, is it? If we use the road network as an example, how can the national transport plan be described as a comprehensive transport plan when it covers only just under one third of the total road network in the country? The Committee calls for increased appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the road network and refers to the importance of a good road standard to reduce the number of accidents, the availability and therefore the importance of transport costs and the value creation around the country. I agree with this if the appropriations had been significantly greater. What about the rest of the road network? What are the quality requirements for the municipal and county road network? While national road maintenance standards exist, standards for the rest of the road network are lacking. This means that the gap between the quality of the highways, to which the Stortinget grants money, and the municipal roads are growing. A study of NITO was carried out in 1993 and 1999 to monitor the appropriations and maintenance of municipal and county roads between 1986 and 1999. The result showed that road maintenance appropriations had halved in the last 15 years. In many municipalities, road maintenance is so low that safety is compromised, and a clear link has been established between the number of accidents and the quality of road maintenance. It is clear that this also affects the car owners and the car park, and we send the bill to the individual. They're the sufferers, the individual carrier. We have a forest of small businesses, a forest of small industries, around the districts, and they have to drive on county roads and on municipal roads to get the values created to make the big community enjoy it. Then it's a shame that no more is done to give us the opportunity to help small communities solve their problems and to help with Oslo's road development and construction problems in Oslo East in connection with the opera building there. We're talking about maybe $100 billion that's going to be spent before we're done with that "shoe." And who's going to pay? Well, it's just those who are value creators out in the districts. Riksvej No. 1 is as usual underestimated. It is a maintenance-free highway that lies along the whole coast, in each fjord and each bay. Almost nothing is said about the possibility of transporting at sea. What is it said about the expansion of ports? What do you say about researching new types of ships that can go fast? What do you say about gas exploration and development as a means of propulsion for ships and new types of ships? Switching to the use of gas in ship traffic reduces NOx emissions by 90 pst. and the CO2 emissions by 30 pst. There's nothing said about it – nothing at all. A national transport plan has to be seen in the future. We don't have the feeling that that's the case with this plan. I do not think that enough consideration has been given to the possibilities we have for using the sea as a safe and good means of transport. Of course, I am not to move all transport and all travel to the sea. It's an impossibility. But with today’s situation and with the levels of charges that the near-cargo fleet has, it’s a matter of time before they’ve flagged out under the foreign flag of the entire group. I was at a conference in Haugesund a few days ago, and then it became clear that with this development, short sea shipping has died in a few years. Only foreign vessels are sailing on this coast and transporting goods. And then I have to ask again, is there such a development the Greatness really wants, and is that the way you look forward to? One has to put a big question mark on this whole plan when it's so little done and said. So a few words about small airports. We had in our time, when Kyllingmark was Minister of Transport, put out all these "chicken fields" around the country. Then it was optimism. We've taken advantage of them and used them, and it's been a huge advantage for the whole of District Norway. Now they're going to be put in rows and rows. The maintenance of terminal construction and baggage management at each aerodrome is under every criticism a number of locations. Here, there's a need for upgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1239	The national transport plan of the Government has a serious impact. The government of Stoltenberg provides for a centralisation of investment and maintenance resources in the transport sector that will have consequences for housing and business in District Norway. It is positive that we have addressed some of this through the various majority of the Committee relating to the priorities of additional funds for which there is a majority. The extra funds for the Christian People's Party are SEK 5.8 billion, and large parts of this will go to important measures in District Norway. Transport policy and industrial policy are in many ways two sides of the same coin. The economy buys transport for about 45 billion kroner a year. It's going to be 8 pst. of the total costs of business and has a significant impact on value creation, profitability and productivity. The longer the distance to markets, the more expensive transport costs are. Fisheries and aquaculture are particularly dependent on good infrastructure. The Christian People's Party will have increased investment in port development and development of the secondary road network along the coast, just to meet the developments we expect in the maritime sector. The Christian People's Party has set aside 920 million. kr to the secondary national road network, subdivided frame, in the first part of the national transport plan. These funds are allocated according to historical criteria which take too little account of current facts. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is a need to adjust the criteria for the distribution of these funds in view of increased investment in the districts. This may mean that greater emphasis must be placed on distance at the expense of traffic volume. We are also concerned that low-road status states should be met. Transport policy provides the necessary framework conditions to contribute to new jobs in districts and to the development of local communities along our long-term coast. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the needs of industry for good infrastructure. The importance of commercial transport is likely to be too low in the cost-benefit models used to prioritise the transport project. The savings in travel time of persons are relatively high in the cost-benefit analyses, while the time value of goods is set at zero. It counts high to be alone in the private car in line on E18, while it counts zero to be stuck with a fully loaded trailer with salmon on the Korg mountain on a winter day. Transport quality, accessibility and predictability of industrial transport are almost not priced in current cost-benefit analyses. For the fisheries and aquaculture industry, it is a matter of arriving on time with fresh products, a question of loss or profit for the industry that we hope for in the future. The Christian People's Party will focus on the basis of the cost-benefit analyses and work to increase the weight of business transport. The fact that this is absolutely necessary confirms the following quote from St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan: ‘In the context of an overall priority for security and the emphasis on socio-economic profitability, measures to improve rural accessibility and accessibility have also been incorporated.’ If socio-economic profitability is to be the main criterion for the prioritisation of the road in districts, as stated by the Government, then the Storting must now take up a new debate on the criteria to be taken into account. In the Christian People's Party, we want to take the consequences of the knowledge that it is in the districts most of the value creation in this country is going on, and we therefore need to adjust the cost-benefit models in line with this. Together with the transport plan, we deal with a number of Document Nos. Eight proposals. One of them is the proposal for a joint accident commission for the whole transport sector. A majority of the Committee rejects the proposal and subscribes to the Government’s proposal in the National Transport Plan for a Joint Aviation and Railway Disaster Commission. From the Christian People's Party we will go in for this now. Once we have gained experience from a Commission involving two modes of transport, we will later assess whether a broader area of responsibility or a common accident commission could be appropriate. It is in this country that the road network is essential for both housing and value creation. Together with the National Transport Plan, the Committee has taken a position on two proposals for two important road projects – the Karmøy T link and the E18 link in East Agder. Both are important projects. The E18 is the main trajectory from the South and South West towards Grenland and Oslo. The standard of important parts of E18 in East Agder is not satisfactory, and the commitment to building a better way has been great. Now one can get started. A parcel shall be started up during the first part of the planning period. In addition, an additional case could be initiated as a OPS project. The T-connection to Karmøy will provide the southern part of Karmøy with a much better link to the Coastal Road E39 and improve the internal transport system in North Rogaland. There is a great deal of consensus about the project locally. In Document No: 8:84 for 1999-2000, it is proposed that the E6 should be excluded from the Steinkjer Centre. In this context, I would like to point out that the plans for the project have been adopted with great local support, and the Christian People's Party supports the project as presented. In addition to the road projects we have had our own issues, there are some extra ones that need to be mentioned. I would like to point out three of them – E39 Handeland–Feda, E6 Osen–Korgen and E10 Lofoten’s continental link. I am very pleased that a majority of the Committee agrees with the Christian People's Party that the project Handeland-Feda can be expanded as a OPS project. It allows for faster implementation of the project than for one to be dependent on the state framework. The project will eliminate a bad stretch of swings and strong rise over Kvinesheia. E39 is short down by 15 kilometers, and traffic will no longer pass through the Kvinesdal center. The second project, the tunnel through the Korg mountain, removes the largest bottleneck, a highly accident-related stretch of E6 between Trondheim and Bodø. It is gratifying that the Korg Mountain now gets its solution, and in the Christian People's Party we are concerned that the planning process for the entire Helgelands Cross is being completed. Here, there are great savings potentials and a way forward for future development in Helgeland. The third project I want to draw out is Lofast. In the budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party last year, funds were set aside for start-up. Now there is a broad majority in favour of pushing the completion of Lofast to the first part of the planning period. Once the costs are quality assurance and impact assessments have been completed, a start may be made, and with the follow-up to the annual budgetary procedures, we may have the objective of opening up the road in 2006. The last large continent-free region now sees the end of many years of land-related struggle. We live in a country with great distances. Some of the counties are so big that you have to use planes to travel inside the county. This is particularly true in Finnmark and the Nordic countries. For those who have to travel by plane in their own country, the price of the airline tickets can be very high, yes unacceptable. From the Christian People's Party we are busy bringing down these prizes. It must not be the case that those who have to combine different companies have a larger bill than if the same company had run all the routes. During the next round of tenders, ensure that the ticket prices for those required to fly within the county are not unduly high. Another problem is the need to use regional network routes along with routes on the core network. Whoever's going from Stavanger to Trondheim can travel via Oslo, but pay as if there was one route. Anyone who is going to travel from the Western Channel to Oslo and has to fly with Onderøe to Bodø and with SAS or Braathen's further, will receive a significant mark-up in the ticket price. We do not find this discrimination reasonable. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a broad majority asks the Ministry to look at the maximum price level at the next roll-out, with a view to harmonising the price level of the regional route sections. We should also have had the majority with us on our proposal to ask the government to investigate the possibility of outsourcing the main route network in North Norway and between North and South Norway for public purchases. This could have contributed to smaller price differences, but here the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party would not be involved. In the Christian People's Party we will come back to the matter later, and we expect the Government to follow up the majority comment on lower prices on the regional network. In the Christian People's Party, we are convinced that lower air fares internally and even from North Norway will make a strong contribution to securing settlement in the region. Air traffic in Norway has fallen. The companies can no longer afford to fly side by side with half-empty aircraft. It is positive because it reduces climate emissions. The adverse reaction has reduced profitability at airports. However, reduced air traffic will also reduce the need for expansion. The important thing is that, regardless of the level of activity, we ensure efficient and profitable operations where there is a basis for doing so. We will later have a debate on the airport structure in Norway in the context of our own aviation communication. As better roads provide reduced travel time, the need for an aerodrome may be changed. The regional grid operates in many ways as the districts’ collective services, especially in North Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it will be essential that there should be a good reasons for communication and local connection before an aerodrome, if any, is laid down and replaced by another offer. Norway is a major maritime nation. It's not just that we have a large ship's fleet. It is also a matter of having a country with a long coastline with a great deal of shipping traffic. We are a fishing nation of world formats, and we have a country where it is well suited to transport goods by sea. On many routes, the sea – in the form of ferries – is also part of the road. A majority of the Committee will increase efforts for safe and coastal transport beyond what the Government has proposed. It's very joyful. The government has provided increased frameworks for the maintenance of fireworks and brands. It's also positive. Coastal management investments are directed towards several purposes: fishing ports, lighthouses, brands and traffic controllers. There is a great need for public funds to improve fishing ports, and the Christian People's Party is committed to providing a list of priorities for those fishing ports that need upgrading and which have the greatest potential for development. We have to get away from random distribution by lobbying principle. From the Christian People's Party we will further prioritise the marking of fairways. Security must be of the highest priority. It is primarily about avoiding loss of life, but also about avoiding environmental disasters. An important measure will be electronic navigational charts, and it is positive that we have increased appropriations for this in the budget negotiations last autumn. Our country is long, and it has to be crossed over many fjords and mountains. Gradually, we have built tunnels both through mountains and under fjords. But still the ferries are part of the road in large parts of the country. And whatever view of future ferry relief projects, the ferries will always be there. In the Christian People's Party we are busy using gas as a fuel, and we are pleased that an overall committee asks the Ministry to take the initiative to build several new rickshaws with gas as a fuel. The trials already in progress show promising results. An overall committee underlines the importance of a good offer on the route connections, with high frequency and night ferry services. But many district connections mean more to local communities than to the tribal connections. And unfortunately, not all parties are equally involved in the district connections. For the Christian People's Party, regional relations are important, and here opening times are a special challenge. Opening time, frequency and capacity must be good enough. When the last ferry leaves so early that all the joint meeting activities have to end before 1 p.m. 21 in the evening, as is the case for Drag and Kjøpsvik in the municipality of Tysfjord in the Nordic region, there is a great obstacle to municipal development and settlement. Many ferry services require State subsidies. Grants to ensure a good ferry offer are well spent money. But in some cases the funds can be used even better. When the annual ferry subsidies can almost finance a fixed road link, an assessment should be made whether or not road links can be reasonable. Other more creative proposals for the financing of fixed road connections have also come up, such as community merger or change of zones for the employer's fee. The Christian People's Party is positive in using net savings from ferry subsidies to investment in fixed road connections, and we are pleased that a majority asks the Government to look into the possibility of different ways of financing this. In the Christian People's Party we are concerned that the Storting should ensure the fast-track long-term operating conditions. We therefore take into account a guarantee of today's production in the fast route throughout the transport planning period, and note that all except the Progress Party do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1316	An efficient transport system is an important prerequisite for the competitiveness of business and – if we do things more correctly – a contribution to reducing the environmental costs of transport. The main challenge when dealing with a big message in this regard is that all the money to be spent on putting good thoughts into life needs to be collected from taxes and taxes, which, in turn, users of the transport system prefer less of. People are still in line with the Financial Committee after the budget procedure in the autumn in order to bring down taxes and levies. Today, the most intense taxpayers struggle to spend more money than before on roads and other modes of transport. In the Labour Party, we believe that the situation in the construction sector means that there is something more to be defended, especially now that it may seem that this will not lead to more expensive meters of roadway, but we are not in favour of a reduction in the country's total income. However, improved capacity utilisation of the investments we make in the transport sector needs to be given greater attention. It is for some surprising easy to raise objections to a road pricing that has as its main objective the smoothing of daily traffic in several of the days. Unfortunately, whether we like it or not, it's the money that's going to happen there. Some businessmen – and private individuals too – believe that new roads are paid by others. It's not like that. For what we can call ‘many years ago’, then Minister of Consumer Anne-Lise The hill showed what cost savings we could achieve if we were able to spread business activities beyond several hours of day and week. As we now have, many people have struggled because – I would say – the costs of continuing as before were not entirely taken into account. What will result from increased tax burdens on business and private individuals to continue expanding transport solutions for peaks seems to be too few to take inwards. In this context, road pricing is also a visualisation of costs as an alternative to the development of peaks. It is thoughtful to note that the Right, which is based on reduced taxes and a more efficient society, is opposed to this. Everyone I know is for public transport. The setting contains good input for improvements from most in this context. But also here is the main challenge of traffic diversification and improved capacity utilisation. It must be a cross of thought that the average of the most highly loved bus has a capacity utilisation of something over 20 pst. Dramatic peaks in traffic into the centre and, to some extent, bus routes that originate before private cars are challenges that we must be able to address, even though a lot of conservatism without price tag wants something else. According to Agenda 21, what we do is what we do to improve the environment where we live, which produces results. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV are in the configuration together about a reference to more conscious regulatory plans in this context. The location of industrial areas related to traffic nodal points and proximity between ports, rail and overall road systems should be given priority in order to obtain optimal solutions in line with Agenda 21, says this majority. I want to take a local point with me in this context. I will not be re-elected, but this is so good that I take it anyway. The conditions I refer to here are advantages that can be developed in a very cost-effective way in relation to my nearest port and my nearest commercial areas, namely in the Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1335	Traffic is a complex machine in which many actors have to work together and where soft and hard road users are moving on the same arena. Our task is to ensure that the different actors complement each other, and that it happens smoothly, on land, on the sea and in the air. All modern transport involves some form of risk and it is important to take into account the elimination of this risk to the greatest extent possible, both within existing transport systems and when new ones are planned. In this context, the Progress Party wishes to establish a joint accident commission for all major accidents in the transport sector, and that the Government returns to the UK with alternative solutions in terms of organisation and work. It is also important to see the transport network as a whole, where car, rail, boat and air transport complement each other. Unfortunately, in the railway sector, we have seen several serious accidents in recent years, and in this context, the Progress Party has proposed to strengthen safety on the railway network by increasing its appropriations by 500 million. in addition to the Government's proposals for the removal of dangerous level crossings, the development of crossing tracks and the improvement of general safety. The progress party sees NSB BA struggling with major problems. The company has been poorly guided and has not been able to provide the passenger transport services it has agreed with the country to deliver. The consequence has been poor regularity and adjusted passenger trains on some sections. This is unsustainable. NSB BA should focus on the company's main task of driving trains. The Progress Party considers that the company can benefit from the liquidation of its involvement in non-core activities. The Progress Party believes it is important to give NSB BA the necessary freedom of action to have the company properly cooled, and in this respect it is important to convert the company into a limited liability company and in the long term to be privatised. The Party notes that competition in the carriage of goods by rail is now open and meets the same requirements in the case of passenger transport. We also believe that operators other than the Railway Agency can build, own and operate freight terminals and that competition can be opened up at the railway station. This will help to improve the competitiveness of the railway and lead to a strengthening of the market share of the railway. It is also important that the railway is equated with other actors, including along the track, so that everyone is made equally competitive. As for our priority of the individual routes, we will refer to our comments in the setting. The Progress Party believes that there are many challenges in port policy. First of all, a coherent infrastructure is needed to link roads, rail and public transport to ports. Today, Norway has around 60 public ports in addition to a large number of fishing ports and industrial berths, and the Progress Party believes that this port pattern helps to spread the flows of goods instead of bringing them together. Cows and delaying elements become unfortunate and costly bottlenecks in this infrastructure. It is therefore important that the task of public authorities is limited to the provision of infrastructure and legislation and that public and private ports are treated as equivalent. Fish exports, together with other significant exports from the furniture, process and mineral industries, make Ålesund port the fourth largest export port in Norway, and the city also has an increasing number of cruise ships. The city has a versatile business and a wide range of services in education, healthcare and culture, a high-standard road network and short-distance to the railway hub and airport. The port meets the requirements of a modern port, with efficient logistics, safe and efficient loading and unloading and good storage, cooling and freezing capacity. We are therefore asking that Ålesund port be given national port status. In the case of traffic controllers, recent accidents show that safety needs to be increased. The progress party therefore enters to build the City Ship Tunnel only during the planning period and refers to the many casualties of ship and human life outside the City Peninsula. The plans have been going on since 1985, so it is now time to get started. It is also important to ensure that the monitoring of the Norwegian coast in relation to electronic navigational charts is taken seriously and that this work is completed by the plan in 2006, which the Stortinget has previously foreseen. This, in combination with modern navigation systems, will increase safety at sea, especially under conditions that occur in winter darkness and bad weather. The Progress Party notes that there is a decrease in air traffic and that the high level of charges on domestic routes can lead to the closure of routes, which in turn lead to a decrease in revenues for the Aviation Agency. It means higher prices for travellers and reduced competition in aviation on the domestic market and higher charges for the remaining air traffic. If the aviation and aviation framework conditions are not improved by reducing or removing passenger charges and reducing return requirements for the Aviation Agency, it is doubtful whether the investment objectives set by the Government in the national transport plan can be met. The Progress Party therefore considers that the passenger charge must be removed and the return on the Aviation Agency reduced, thereby avoiding the reduction of five to ten aerodromes. As far as the road sector is concerned, the Progress Party is pleased that there is now a majority to allocate 500 million. kr in the first part of the period to complete Lofast. The Progress Party notes that there is now a majority to build a new freight terminal on the Leangen in Trondheim, and that the North Road is being built using tolls – something we do not agree with. The Progress Party aims to extend route 2, E6 Oslo-Trondheim in future planning to a fully-fledged motorway class A and to Steinkjer according to a narrower standard, further that for route 10, E39 Ålesund-Trondheim there is a need to increase the overall state investment framework, and we propose an increase of 600 million. DKK to 1.2 billion. The progressing party will further refer to its comments in the setting of the frame under the individual routes and for each of the counties under the other national road networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1365	In examining the national transport plan, the Stortinget meets one of the largest state production sites. It would be thought that this was then an area of significant innovation, public sector renewal, rationalisation and savings. There is a variety of reports — well documented — that put significant savings opportunities on the table here. I am registering that the Councils of State for Rationalization, Mr. Kosmo, do not take part in the debate. This would have been a golden opportunity for the Government’s own plans to realise significant savings opportunities, both through a reorganisation, through the consistent use of tenders, by transforming the production department of a limited liability company into a fair competition and also having the option of choosing the cheapest tenders. But I record that the government party is not involved in any of this. If you read the document, you kind of get the impression that the most important thing is to maintain the building of roads, but it's an interesting side effect, but it's a top maintenance that's the overall one. Of course, it's at the top, but there's often things that seem best there, and I'm therefore putting it up. In this way, I am disappointed that it is only the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left that are reasonably united and consistently following up this kind of rationalization idea, among other things. tenders shall be a general rule, and also other means of thinking about financing, development and public road projects in public and private cooperation. Reconnaissance and reconnaissance, it can be discussed. These are really ideas taken from abroad, which are well documented, which have been practised, and so on, there is nothing experimental about this at all, but simply that the responsibility for keeping the budgets is added to the development group, and that instead of investing in the infrastructure in question itself simply leases an infrastructure. In this sense, there is nothing particularly beneficial about the way in which investment costs are allocated. But I record that in this area, the Department and the Government strongly hesitate to address such thoughts, even though the committee goes a little further. I then turn to the theme Oslofjorden and the Oslofjordan region, linked to the port. Both the majority and the minority are in the position on pages 72 and 73 on a common issue, namely that the time for container traffic in Oslo port is limited. The port plan decision referred to by the majority and the minority assumes that even Sjur Island, where container traffic is gradually to be concentrated, has its own limitation until 2011. This means that for container traffic in Oslofjord, intermunicipal or other forms of regional port solutions have to be found. I record that both the majority and the minority are concerned about this and ask the Ministry of Fisheries as the right department — curiously enough, one might say — to help this happen. I also believe that there is a need for innovation, whether it is a joint port solution with other municipalities or a port company investing in the territory of other municipalities in order to find solutions that are regional. I note that companies that currently have port solutions in Oslo are already on their way to finding such solutions themselves, and then the port should also come after them. The note from the Socialist Left and Left on pages 72 and 73 of the vote, which goes on with what is stated in the majority's comment, I can join in for my part. There is nothing in the note that is not in line with the majority decision taken both in Oslo City Council and in Oslo Port Government. Several, in terms of traffic problems in the metropolitan region, in the Oslo area, have pointed out that further efforts are needed both on public transport and on road solutions. One doesn't rule out the other. A significant part of public transport is also on the way. However, I am disappointed that there is a majority who do not want to include a new Mosseweg in the tunnel as a possible OPS project. It's probably one of the most profitable road projects in the whole country, and it has significant environmental benefits associated with it, like other road projects in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1380	Jan Sahl and Inge Myrvoll have previously been concerned with political power. Now, in the light of last week's events, one should perhaps be a little careful to talk about the power of politics, but at least I'm glad that it's completely different from Myrvoll and Sahl who are going to assess the quality of the representatives' powers, and as I know my two co-representatives, they're not very interested in it. It has been criticised that the submission to the national transport plan is inconclusive and that one has to look up several places to read about the same things. It is possible that the national transport plan should have been a better document, and perhaps the plan will be in four years' time, but I would stress that when you want to see four different transport patterns in the context, it will necessarily be that you have to consider things against each other and perhaps look up several places to take the right balances. If not, we could have four investment plans, as we had before, one for road, one for rail, one for aviation and one for port. The whole idea behind the National Transport Plan was that we should look at the different modes of transport towards each other. It has struck me here today that the central parties in particular have criticised the Government and the Workers' Party for the lack of a district profile, quite strong words have been used, while in the setting it is clear that the Right and Advance Party criticize the Government and the Workers' Party for spending too little money on central tribal routes. Obviously, both of them can't be right. It cannot be right that both rates are too small in the districts and rates are too small in the central strata. I interpret it as that one has actually met quite well with the devices on the plan, according to the transport needs that we have in the Kingdom. It is quite bold of the centre parties here today to talk about too much of the investment going to the central eastern region, when a simultaneous sea is on all the projects, except for one road project here in the capital. And when one in addition is involved in strengthening rail investments in the central eastern region – luckily, I would say – with nearly one billion kroner, it is quite frequent to say that the arrangements of the Government and the Workers' Party are too centralist. It is possible to see both districts and central struts in the context. And it's also our job as big-time representatives to do that. I, who is one of those who are regularly transported by local train in and out of the capital, must be able to see that there are problems with local train traffic in central urban areas, while I have to understand that there are completely different traffic problems out in District Norway. I have no problem understanding that the fishing industry in Mehamn has major problems when Nordkynvegen is closed for many days during the winter months. But, as I said, it is important to consider both local train traffic in the Oslo area and in the North Kynvegen and other transport challenges throughout the Kingdom. Then go to the railroad. The railway is and will probably also be derailed. It is presented as if all that has to do with the railways is disastrous in Norway today. I'll try to raise my eyes a little bit and nuance the picture a little. I'm here with statistics on the evolution of passenger transport in the 1990s. Those who want to get involved in statistics and not just sys and complaints on the railway can see that the figures show that the number of rail journeys and the number of passenger kilometres by train has increased considerably in the 1990s, i.e. more and more trains run year by year. Rail freight has also shown relatively positive figures in recent years. And what does this say? Well, it's possible to get people to drive trains, and it's possible to get more goods on the railways, as most parties say in their party programs, if there's political will for it. I'm not going to underestimate the problems that currently exist in Norwegian railways, at all – NSB has significant problems. That's what this assembly is going to come back to later in the spring. That's why I want to use my minutes to talk about the main issue today, the development of the railway network. After the completion of the Nordlandsbahn at the beginning of the 1960s, it was 20 years before we completed a new railway project of special size in Norway; the construction of the Oslotunnel and Oslo Central Station was well completed in 1980. And then it went by 15-20 new years before we again got a major railway project, the double-track to Moss and the opening of the Gardermoban. It is clear that 30-40 years of relatively small investments in new railway projects and to take care of the old railway, they put their – I would say – tracks on our railway network. It costs a lot of money to build the railway! The two main rail projects for the entire Norwegian railway system, the double track between Oslo and Ski and the double track between Skøyen and Asker, cost a total of DKK 13-14 billion. It's a formidable amount, but at the same time, investments are absolutely necessary if we're still going to have an uphill railway in the Kingdom. As I said, it is absolutely essential that there is a political will to invest in the railways. I am pleased that there is a majority in the UK for the Workers' Party's proposal to speed up the expansion of the double track between Skøen and Asker and add 930 million. kr in addition to that of the Government, so that the double track can be completed during the transport planning period. I am also pleased that there is a majority to speed up the expansion of the double track between Stavanger and Sandnes, so that you can get started with the new double track there as early as 2004. The working party will also spend 100 million. kr for the design of the Ringerix track and 270 mill. kr for level crossings, profile extensions and node improvements – and I repeat: in addition to the significant amounts contained in the Government's proposals. As a railway spokesperson, however, I have no problem dedicating a little to the other public transport services. I am thinking in particular of the person for whom the county authorities are responsible, and in particular the bus transport. There is no concealment that public transport in many counties, after the feedback we receive in the Committee on Transport, has some major problems. I do not believe, as some people today call for, that their own big message solves the problems of public transport in the counties. I am not now able to write out the prescription on how to solve the problems of public transport, but I am at least happy that today there is a majority in favour of a plan to be presented in connection with the next state budget, on how to achieve the objective of increasing public transport, and I am also pleased that today there is a majority in favour of looking at the possibilities of so-called performance-driven financing of public transport. In any case, there is no doubt that something has to be done if the county public transport system is to be able to take more market shares than it is today. So finally some words in relation to the expansion of Fornebu and collective solutions there. There is a great deal of consensus that there is an urgent need to establish a collective service in the Fornebu area. The construction activity on Fornebu is in full swing. Already until next year, Telenor is using its new head office, and only Telenor has 6,000 employees at Fornebu for the next year. In addition, we know about all of the other companies that come into the area, plus the large residential building. It is urgent to find a solution to the collective traffic of Fornebu. We have no basis here today to say what kind of solution to be chosen, it must be the Ministry of Transport working quickly now beyond spring. But I remember that all the parties in Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, ask that also “tram on bulls”, i.e. trams on rubber wheels, or so-called superbuses, be considered as an alternative to collective service by Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1411	The centre party believes that investment in transport is an important prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use, both in the districts and in the cities. We see the development of the provision of transport as an important tool for putting the whole country into use. The Central Party clearly sees that the Government, through the National Transport Plan, is largely channelling investment funds to central areas and to the national corridors. We would point out that in such a strategy, very many district municipalities will lose. In this context, we will show that much of the raw material resources are available in the districts, and a large part of the value creation in Norway is happening in the districts. The centre party is engaged in getting more goods across from road to track. This requires better organisation for the transport of goods by train, and we therefore want to speed up the implementation of profile extensions on important freight routes, such as: Bergensbanen and Nordlandsbanen. The government is paying for a discrimination where the state invests in transport modes that serve in particular the major centres, while transport modes that bind our long-range country together and where the alternatives to aircraft and boat are few or not existing have to cover their own costs. The principle that road users should be involved in and pay for the necessary transport investments has gradually been brought into line in recent years. However, a factor that should raise awareness is how this self-financing divides between the different transport sectors. For road use, it is proposed that NOK 12.3 billion per person be used. years, of which 14 p.m. is assumed to be financed by tolls. For investments on the railway network, it is recommended that a total of SEK 4.4 billion be spent annually in State resources. The annual expenditure of the Aviation Agency of DKK 3 billion is assumed to be fully covered by what each person pays to fly. In addition, the tax revenue shall also finance State purchases of airport services at regional airports, EUR 90 million. SEK and return to the State from the operation of the Aviation Agency, SEK 104 million. kr per. years. Thus, air traffic has to cover its own costs, while road and rail are part of a national effort. There may be grounds for requiring rational and logical justification for this different treatment of the various modes of transport. It is difficult to understand why investment in air transport that binds the country should not be an equally high priority national and State tasks. This is not just a matter of fairness, that common government funds should benefit the whole country, it is also a matter of achieving the goals of social development that most parties flag. the development of a viable business life in all parts of the country. The government believes that, among other things: is a State responsibility to finance the development of highways. The fact that funding for the development of aviation infrastructure and major coastal traffic should not be an equivalent state responsibility is quite incredible. The State budget of the year refers to the fact that the Stortinget has decided that the operating costs and investments of aviation are to be financed by air passengers. The high costs of developing the Gardermoen, together with increased State-revenue requirements for the Aviation Administration, in particular in the last few years, have led to the need for a greater proportion of revenues to be derived from increased air traffic charges. The principle that Norwegian aviation is to be financed by the user and, in addition, to act as an additional source of revenue for the country is now in the process of arriving at a price of tickets leading to a decline in traffic. Do we want continued discrimination where the modes of transport that bind the country must be self-financing, while local and regional transport problems are solved through massive state investment? As far as aviation is concerned, there is no reason to hide that I am very satisfied with the binding decision on the construction of terminal buildings on Bardufoss. The 40,000 people socking to the airport, along with the employees at the airport, have, for too long, experienced a systematic withdrawal, not to say the training of building terminals at Bardufoss. In the draft budget for 2000, see: St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000, it was announced that the Ministry would return to the investment in a new Bardufoss terminal building following a review of the increased budget allocation. The Aviation Agency has reviewed the estimate of costs and, in certain adaptations to the project, found the basis for reducing costs from 31 million. NOK 26.7 million. kr. These are the figures taken by the Committee when it took its binding decision. Therefore, some attempts to patch up existing terminals in order to obtain the cheapest possible solution will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1445	National transport plan, which is a new generation, shall be a strategic planning document for the development of the system for both road, rail, air and sea transport and shall replace the traditional sectoral plans we have had in the past. This makes sense because the transport systems are clearly linked and should not be treated separately. The document bears much of the impression that we are in an election year. It seems to be the most important thing for the individual batches to overwhelm each other. The government provided a real increase in the appropriations of DKK 1.3 billion per year compared to what has been allocated in the current planning period. In addition, the Labour Party during the treatment here in Stortinget has increased these appropriations by 500 million. DKK per year, i.e. NOK 5 billion in the 10-year period. This is a substantial investment, but was not good enough for the other parties. We'll take note of that. But the Labour Party will not go out and promise more than we can hold, even if we are in an election year. The main objective of the Party's transport policy is to have a safe, efficient and coordinated transport system that ensures the needs of industry and the population throughout the country and which contributes to environmental pollution as much as possible. Furthermore, the Workers' Party will pay particular attention to road safety and accessibility. I'm glad, because we know that traffic requires a lot of human lives every year. In the period 1991-99, an average of 320 people have been killed annually, and so to speak, all in accidents on our roads. There are many Asta accidents every year. This we must take seriously, and we are far from the vision we have, that we should not accept anyone killed in traffic. It is therefore good that there is a consensus that there is security below which priority should be given only to the granting of funds. It's a step in the right direction towards our vision. There are many outstanding problems in the transport sector. It's not least here in the Oslo area and in the surrounding counties. Commuting into the big cities is a challenge that needs to be solved. And it's urgent. Therefore, it is right for the Workers' Party to invest a large proportion of the investments in routes with a high share of local and local traffic in the major urban areas in addition to the intercity triangle Skien-Lillehammer-Halden. If we get fast and satisfactory public transport in the populace, it will result in less food-packing and thus less stress on a behalf that is more than blasted from before. Therefore, it is true that although there are many development projects ahead, the double-track Asker-Ski are the most important railway investment projects in the coming years. And it cannot be that the double-track Asker-Ski is a purely Oslo action, just as the tribal routes out of the country to Europe through Eastfold are a purely Easternfold action. But it doesn't just help with railway tracks. We have to get better and more trains, so people don't have to stand miles after mile when they're going to and from work in rush hour. It is then easy to see that the car is preferred to public transport – even if it is driving a car, at least you get a seat. This is a very bad environmental policy. The transport corridors are also important – eight in all in this country, and two of these are located in Eastfold, E6 and E18. The Eastfold package has already been adopted in Stortinget, and the tolling on the E18 is immediately up and running. On the E6 it takes a little longer, but I am glad that it now looks like we have a state regulatory plan, so that we can also start up there. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee agrees on the need to implement the phase 1 Eastfold package. Furthermore, the majority writes: ‘Better accessibility and road safety, as well as overall transport solutions, have been the primary basis for the decision on the phase 1 Eastfold package. Both traffic and accident growth and, in particular, the increasing severity of the accidents on the stuttering roads in Eastfold, reinforce the need for the rapid implementation of the Eastfold package phase 1.» I fully agree with that. With the traffic growth that has been in the last few years on these two tribal roads, it will not be many years before the road capacity is completely detonated. For example, road traffic on these main roads increased by more than 5 pst. From 1994 to 1999, which is twice as high as the rest of the country, and above Svinesundsbrua by 12pst. last year. And when we know that Svinesundsbrua is one of the millennia-long cattle bottlenecks, there is no doubt that there is a need for rapid expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1474	I agree with the previous speakers that it is important not to promise more than what you can keep, nor does it do Right – we keep what we promise. The importance of having good public transport is becoming more and more urgent. People are much more mobile than before. The place of work may no longer be the same near the place of residence. In the eastern part of the country, people choose their place of residence by quality and on-site offer, and work by offer and opportunity. You no longer move because you change jobs. Eastfold County is such an example – we have over 15,000 commuters out of the county, and more are, because Eastfold is the state with the largest movement at the moment. It is no longer unusual that the daily work journey has a duration of from two to four hours. If you don't want commuters to use a car, the collective offer needs to be increased. Strict restrictions have been imposed on the use of express buses in Eastfold. Thus, the NSB does not compete. This is the case when the NSB is a main player in the bus industry and at the same time has a monopoly on the carriage of passengers by road. It is a pity that the Right and Advance Party proposals on the free establishment of express buses do not get a majority. Clearly, overfilled trains are in order. There are no restrictions on how many people can be accommodated on a local train. Where's the security here? It's not much better on some intercity departures. People are standing, punctuality is like that, no buses are going. Is it weird that people use the car? For commuters, it is important that the offers for both trains, buses and T-Bahn are good and work properly. That is why the right has given priority to public transport. Large investments are required both for the repair of old tracks and for new ones to get trains literally on the rails. But the most important thing is to complete the projects you have started. We've probably got dead capital lying around because we're building it up. The majority of the Stortinget are masters in launching new projects without completing the projects they have started, whether in road or rail. It is therefore imperative to have more of the resources made available. The Communication refers to the fact that the Railway Agency has saved up to 40 pst in the case of certain competitive projects. Then you have to be amazed that the Workers' Party is completely ignoring this. Obviously, here the Railway Federation has said its own. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party, the Left and also the Center Party will now launch a competitive outing. In the vote, a large majority have stated that both traffic and accident growth have strengthened the need for the rapid implementation of the phase 1 Eastfold package. I'm interpreting this so that the majority won't oppose a shot at a faster expansion. Perhaps we can match the Swedes, who have now granted what is needed and want their E6 – four-field – from Uddevalla to the Norwegian border completed during 2007. According to what is in the national transport plan, ours is only ready in 2015. I have to say that it's actually a social scandal that we can't match the Swedes. A large majority, including the Workers' Party, have been in favour of extending the double track between Sandbukta-Moss at the same time as Phase 1. In the setting, the Workers' Party does not mention this parcel at all, but instead has prioritised an acceleration of the double-track Sandnes-Stavanger. Once again, the Workers' Party has prioritised Eastfold. Nor do they want to apply structural changes or competitive outsourcing, and this helps us to make less use of the resources and not get the progress we should make on the projects that we have already started. Int. S. No 77 for 2000-2001 the majority, including the Workers' Party, repeat what the same parties said at the Innst. S. No 111 for 1999-2000, that they will have good collective solutions to the Oslo area at the same time as developing road systems, and that in this context the development of the railways in Moss is an important element. They also ask the Ministry to return to a plan of funding in the national transport plan. At the same time, they say that they believe it is important that the Department also looks at alternative funding methods. Alternative forms of financing in the field of railway development are not at all mentioned in the national transport plan. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport: until the budget presentation in the autumn of 2001, will he look at alternative financing methods for the development of railway tracks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1500	Last time the long-term plans for the transport sector were discussed in the Storting, five different communications, one for each sector and one that compiled the four sectoral plans were taken into account. This was a first step towards a more comprehensive transport planning. This time there is one notification, in which the sectors are treated as a whole and where the notification has been made through one coordinated process. There is a great deal of work behind the notification, in two departments, four transport centres centrally and regionally, in all counties, and also with important input from various stakeholder organisations. National transport plan is a significant step in the further development of a comprehensive transport policy and overall transport planning. I am very pleased that there seems to be a great deal of cross-political agreement on important elements of transport policy and on the way forward. In addition, within such a device, there is a desire to increase the effort. I am pleased with the agreement we have thus obtained on the main features of transport policy and the signals on a strengthened priority for the transport sector. Such agreement is an obvious strength for the transport sector in general. In the national transport plan, we have paid particular attention to the need to strengthen safety in all parts of the transport sector, and we have given particular attention to strengthening operation and maintenance. Over 300 people are killed every year in road traffic, and in addition, a large number of injuries occur, many serious. Tragically, we have also been reminded that other forms of transport are not risk-free either. The Government provides a zero vision for the long-term safety work in the transport sector, that is to say a vision that no fatal or life-threatening accidents will occur. The consideration of increased safety shall be incorporated in the development, operation and maintenance of the entire transport system. I note that the Committee shares the Government's vision. We must take it inward that all those killed and injured in traffic are a tragedy for many individuals and at the same time a serious social problem. Our actions need to be put in place where they contribute as much as possible to reducing the number of accidents and the severity of accidents. In practice, this means that efforts need to be focused on the road sector, with more than 90 pst. the deaths occur. This requires an interaction between a variety of actions: physical action, control, penalties, training, information and knowledge-building. Security measures must be put in place where they are most needed. I would warn against making safety just a matter of betting on one or the other mode of transport. We must be able to see the whole even when we prioritise and debate security. The safest possible closure of transport is the rule of the Government, but within such a framework we must not overlook the very purpose of the transport network: accessibility for goods and persons. In particular, we are committed to further developing robust housing and labour market regions, while meeting the business needs for efficient transport. A good standard is needed for the whole transport system, so that businesses and the public are confronted with transport solutions that are predictable and reliable. I would like to point out in particular how important a trade is for housing. If we go back 30-40 years in time, the prerequisite for living in our country was one job. What is the prerequisite for settlement now is that a couple can find two jobs at reasonable travel distance from the place of residence, and actually also have the possibility of a third place, because these two will have children. What I want to achieve is that the requirements of the transport sector have increased and will increase as part of general social development. Or in another way: it's simply important for equality, where we've come through an active effort to give all people the right to pay. It's a development we're not in any way sorry about, it's a development we've wanted. But it also has consequences for how we have to think and bet in the future. The Government will stress that the development of a better transport network will facilitate future value creation and contribute to the competitiveness of business in all parts of the country. We're going to expand both in the districts and in more populous regions. It's not just useful to do one. In addition to general investment and maintenance measures to improve regularity and accessibility, efforts will be linked to actions that contribute to the removal of bottlenecks in the transport network. It also provides for a better link between terminals, traffic hubs and the other transport network. In this area, too, there seems to be a significant degree of cross-political consensus, although there will always be nuances in terms of dosage and specific individual measures. The government also proposes an ambitious environmental policy in the transport sector. The requirements of the regulations on noise and air pollution are a significant challenge. It's estimated that we have to invest about a billion on the road and the railway to follow up the noise requirements. This is work that is in progress and will be completed by 2005. This means that the limits are to be reached regardless of the device. Local authorities have a number of instruments in place in relation to local pollution problems. These are the instruments we have not been able to advance in the national transport plan, but we see it as our task to facilitate their deployment. I show you in this context, among other things. to Ot. pp. No 32 on road pricing which is currently being treated in Stortinget, and which is based on the setting of the National Transport Plan, appears to have the Grotinget’s approval. Climate policy is a priority area for the Government. We will be faced with demands and obligations that we have to solve. Climate challenges are best addressed through the most cost-effective use of the instrument. We need to set up our national policies to achieve our objectives. But these are also global challenges that need to be addressed in an international context. For us, charging policy in particular is important in this area, but it also needs to be assessed across sectors in a broader context than the national transport plan. In order to achieve the climate goals, the Government will cooperate with organisations and business to find the best solutions. The government will come back to this in different contexts and refers to the presentation of the long-term programme and a separate communication on climate policy. Transport policy has several dimensions. While we want to coordinate policies across the transport sectors, it is necessary to pursue a differentiated transport policy towards different parts of the country. In the national transport plan, this is reflected in a third: the overall national transport network, the corridors transport policy as a regional policy instrument transport policy towards the major urban areas; I record that an overall committee has found this appropriate. The challenges associated with corridors, in particular, to facilitate an efficient transport network linking the country with the international transport network. Major urban areas, and in particular the Oslo area, have more visible and complex environmental and progeny-related challenges than elsewhere. Population growth and land pressure impose major coordination requirements across transport sectors and between levels of management. In this context, it is important that the State instruments are coordinated with the instruments available to cities and regional authorities themselves. Transport challenges in the larger urban areas cannot be solved only by increasing transport capacity. The main emphasis of railway investment is placed in the Oslo area, in order to strengthen the railway in the near traffic and to ensure that Oslo can be an effective main hub for the whole national network. In districts, population, public services and businesses depend on road transport on a daily basis. Racial protection of the road network is important for the regularity of business transport and the safety of the population. The same applies to ferry connections with good frequency and opening times. Renewal of ferries and increased oil prices have led to a significant increase in the cost of the ferry. For districts, it is also emphasised that regional airports and the purchase of air route services by the State play an important role by connecting parts of the country together and by providing access to national and international networks in aviation. The option has found room for strengthening aviation. However, there is a need for a more detailed assessment of the regional airport structure, inter alia. in the light of the significant improvements made to the other transport services following the identification of the main features of today’s airport structure. This we will come back to Stortinget with. Through the National Transport Plan, we have signalled a strengthening of operation and maintenance in all sectors. The investment/operation/maintenance ratio has not been well balanced. We're aiming to fix this. Good operation and maintenance are also an important part of the strategy to increase the safety of the transport network. The investment side usually receives the most attention when discussing the use of resources in the transport sector. This is probably also the case both in the staging message and in the setting, but I want to see this in the light of a cross-political agreement to protect operation and maintenance. Different minorities, through the current treatment of the national transport plan, want to signal an increased priority of the transport sector through framework increases from 5 to more than 40 billion DKK. For us, it is important to have a framework that is realistic. One doesn't have to go very far back in time to find examples of the opposite. It will be a great and not least a joint responsibility to follow up this plan in future budgetary procedures. As shown in the setting, the Government also sees the need for an increase in efforts. In this context, the government has given particular attention to the situation in the construction industry. I record that there is essentially a connection to the Government's arrangement and investment programme within the scope of the notification. In addition, I want to follow up on the projects that are clearly prioritised in the setting, and not least on Lofoten's continental connection. I will not go into commenting on other individual projects on the road side, except to show that the Stortinget today also has for treatment St. pp. No 30 on the partial toll financing of E18 in East Agder and St. pp. No 72 on the partial toll financing of the Rogaland T link. I note that this gives a clear connection to both projects, which I am of course satisfied with. I am also pleased that, in the case of framework increases, there is a majority in favour of maintaining the Government's clear priorities for the railway. A majority will speed up the double-track Stavanger-Sandnes and will realize the full dual-track development of Skøyen-Asker during the forthcoming planning period. The significant increase in the majority will give to Skøyen-Asker, further strengthening of the state's efforts to Oslopak 2. I expect Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality to follow up their part of the package. Unfortunately, I have to say that binding local decisions have not yet been taken on tariff increases in the bombing. If the income base of Oslopackak 2 is not to be weakened, it is now important that local authorities get on the track as soon as possible. I know that the Storting agrees. The Committee is concerned that public transport has not achieved a stronger place in the overall transport system. The challenges are obviously present, but I will nevertheless show that the decline in public transport seems to have stopped in recent years. I also find reason to mention that these are points of light. Never have so many taken the train as today, and we see a strong growth in the number of passengers in terms of traffic by T-Bahn and tram in Oslo. Our challenges are to further develop and strengthen the positive trends. We take the other signal to come back with a more detailed discussion of funding and the possibilities for increasing public transport. I would like to recall the division of labour that applies to public transport between levels of government. After all, that's all we've been based on in the National Transport Plan. The operation of public transport, other than rail, is a county responsibility. In other words, when it comes to government grants for public transport, this is something that needs to be ensured by the current system through county priorities. The government is contributing here with a general strengthening of the county economy. Within the current organisational structure, we place considerable emphasis on public transport by the state. This is done through the development, purchase of rail services and the organisation of other public transport infrastructure, in particular in relation to the major urban areas. It is also outside the State's sphere of responsibility; for example: through direct appropriations and tolls, the State will contribute nearly 700 million. kr to the T-banning in Oslo. The majority are in favour of changing the support for public transport. I agree that we should be open to evaluating alternative solutions. We will continuously assess opportunities to achieve more efficient use of resources through organisational changes, but in such a way that we provide good political governance. In the national transport plan, we otherwise warn of competition on the rail track, of freight transport, an embellishment of the express bus policy and an assessment of alternative organisational models for the production department in the state road services. Another area where we want to test alternative forms of organisation is Public Private Cooperation – OPS. I record that the Committee joins the two projects proposed by the Government, and in addition, in line with the Committee's recommendation, we will facilitate a third OPS project – Hadeland-Feda. National transport plan, as we have presented it, means strengthening overall transport planning. At the same time, it is the first of its kind and obviously has significant improvement points. The Committee points out, inter alia: that the impact calculations are not good enough and comprehensive. This is a view both of the department and of the transport modes. We want to move forward to the next NTP working on improvements in this area. It is a professionally difficult and comprehensive work that I think we should have a certain humility in relation to. In any case, as we are alerting in the communication, in the 2002 budget we will come back with more secure impact estimates based on the ethos of action programmes. We also want to further develop the national transport plan in other ways. There is a comprehensive evaluation of different aspects of the process that we have behind us and the results of them. I don't want to get ahead of ourselves here, but I'll be surprised if the next NTP doesn't look different.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1591	Collective action has been an important part of the debate today. Ola Røtvej said in a reply to Jan Sahl that the Workers' Party does not want a separate notification of public transport because public transport is not supposed to live its own life, but is part of a national transport plan. Is the Council of State in agreement with this, and does the Council of State see that in that case there will be an advantage if the financial framework for public transport is also part of the national transport plan? Then I have a question about TT transport. Additional transport measures for disabled persons, known as TT transport, are a county responsibility. The offer is very different from state to state, and this is a recurring problem that the disabled themselves are still telling us about. It can hardly be correct as it says in a response to us from the Department: ‘The offer reflects local priorities and needs.’ I think the disabled can say quite a lot about that. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that disabled people, who are totally dependent on TT transport, have equal opportunities to participate in society, through work and study. It opens up with national guidelines to the extent that the Government is now, and that is good, but what about normal participation in leisure time, involvement in organisations and political parties, etc.? Will the Council of States consider whether this is not also an area for just national guidelines, with equivalent offers for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1600	The Communication provides for a significant strengthening of public transport, and the increase in consultation with the Government reinforces this. It is now the case that the state today has a responsibility for the railway side. We are strongly committed to the Oslo area, and this is a significant strengthening of public transport. We are moving on in the Stavanger/Sandnes area and in the Trondheim area. In addition, there is a great deal of infrastructure investment in public transport in road procurement and, of course, also in the purchase of transport services. This is an important part of public transport. When it comes to the organisation of it, we say that we want to enter into some testing schemes to strengthen the organisation side. But as far as direct support is concerned, I would say that, in today's system, it would probably have been better to propose additions to the local economy than direct operating aid, as it is organised. With regard to the question of own-notification, I join the representative of Røtweg in the past who has stated that this is an important part of transport policy, and that must also be an important part of future management in particular. National transport plan. If we start taking out important parts as our own texts, we've broken our own work in many ways. As far as TT transport is concerned, it is clear that we are dealing here with a classic problem between the local council – in this case the county council – and the desire for justice and equality across the country. When we say that local priorities and needs are taken into account, it is enough that local priorities are not least taken into account. When they turn negative, the need for guidance grows. And we, on the part of the Government, have taken this into account in terms of work travel and educational travel, and hope that we will soon be able to put forward an experimental system in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1613	Time does not allow me to enter as many of the areas as the Council of State was in, but in the case of the road network, I will show that there is a significant lag in maintenance that is intended for approx. $9.5 billion, and that you need $700-900 million. kr per. years only to keep the lag away from it so that it does not increase further. And I can't see that the government is adding funds to the framework to improve the maintenance. The Minister for Transport also points out that a good transport policy and the development of our transport networks, including in the districts – among others. by removing the bottlenecks – is a prerequisite for settlement. However, I find it unreasonable that the burdens will be passed on to the drivers again in the form of road pricing and tolls, when the drivers have already paid approx. Forty billion kroner and only gets around. 10 billion from the state. Does not the Council of State think it is enough now, and should the State take on a greater share of the expenditure? In the case of airports, we have also seen that many airports are at risk of being closed down, and that airlines are struggling to maintain routes because of taxes and charges. Will not the Council of State begin to examine that issue and see if he cannot do anything in relation to the charging of airlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1622	There are few arguments that are as classic as the argument that the drivers pay NOK 40 billion and get back NOK 10 billion. It's just as classic that you don't take inwards that car traffic and road traffic cost infinitely more than building and maintaining roads, for example. all the tragic deaths and injuries we have. Who's going to pay if it's not exactly the ones that's going on the roads? It is true that this balances around, and so it is also the case that you do not have large credits. But society has to take responsibility. It's important for us to have a well-functioning road system. It is also right that we should use tolls to achieve road projects in the past. I don't want to say that it's the way people cheer for it, but we have a fairly broad acceptance for it in our country. With regard to the strengthening of operation and maintenance, there is a clear twist in the plan towards more for operation and maintenance. I'm happy to join you. We want a better balance, and we're also on our way. I assume that the good intentions are also maintained when you come to the specific budgetary procedure. Then it is more difficult, because the temptation to use the money for concrete projects is relatively large. The Progress Party wants to spend, as far as I've seen, $5 billion more in the ten-year period. So the Progress Party wants to increase investment by between 30 and 40 billion kroner at the same time. In fact, if you look at the balance sheet, the Progress Party is relatively small in terms of operation and maintenance. The problem is, of course, to meet the limits that are included here, and then I am afraid that operation and maintenance may lose. Then we have to ask: is this realistic? Then I see that you operate with something mysterious called a foreign budget. I think Norwegian roads need to be built mainly in Norway. You can almost only build one Swinesund bridge. So this I think is more desirable than it is realism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1633	This is a plan that goes over ten years, and the principal things are essentially important to get discussed. No matter what one might think of tolls in Norway — there are different opinions about them — it is a form of funding that we have used and that we may have to use in the future. Then the Council of State probably knows that in the standard agreement it is such that costs in addition to 10 pst. shall be covered by the State. It is justified that the State Road Service has both the planning and construction responsibility for this, and it is not unreasonable that if you have bad estimates, you also have to pay the cost that goes over 10 pst. What has made me a little uncertain is that the center as well as the SV have a comment in the setting where you put question marks on these 10 pst., if you want to continue that system. Then I have to be allowed to say that some of us have had experience building toll projects and have tried our lives to finance these projects. If it were to be that there is no guarantee attached to these 10 psts, I would think it would be almost impossible to finance a toll project through private institutions in this country. The uncertainty of the excess costs will then become so great that the companies will say no. I think it's incredibly important that if there's any detail in this, we'll look at it, but we'll stick to the principle. If you don't, it'll be impossible, and this funding, this way of doing it, will fall away. That's what's bothered me in that comment from the center and SV. It's worrying precisely because it can have the consequences that I'm now saying. I would think that very many toll companies around Norway are wondering how they are now going to be able to finance this, get the banks to go in. I know what work it is to get it done, and then the guarantee was on the 10 pst. what you could hit on the table with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1640	We should be very much aware that when we deal with these questions, we are literally dealing with the people's money. They must be handled in such a way as to ensure that they are used for the project, that the recovery period is respected, that the product you pay for is at all certain. This is based, as the representative Nilsen said, on standard agreements, and there is a passport that includes costs in addition to 10 pst. bears mainly the State. It is enough that once we have also mentioned this in the message, we can roughly categorize cost increases in two – one type is cost increases which are what I would call delicacy as a result of changes, and the other type is planning booms and unforeseen. Let me make it quite clear that in the case of planning beams and ‘unforeseeable’, I am absolutely sure that we must follow the current system in the future, precisely with the reasons on which the representative Nilsen was based. I think we should look at the standard agreement to eliminate the possibility of the former type. This is also important in a different perspective, because we also don't want you, if you do something else, to come into a situation where you plan and budget deliberately in the highest tier. It is not a good contribution to rational and reasonably feasible road development Let me sum up: we want to look at the standard agreements, but that's to make sure they're a good governance instrument. But at the same time, we want to set ourselves up so that we do not create uncertainty about funding. Of course, it would lead to an aggravation of capital if one were to enter the loan market in some projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1649	In the National Transport Plan, the Ministry of Transport emphasises the launch of an inventory of alternative organisational models that can help to improve the efficiency of the operation of the State Road Service. I fully agree that such work should take place and would have expected the distribution work provided by the Ministry to be submitted to the Stortinget. But in the committee setting, the Labour Party concludes its members and relies on a particular solution. They have already found the solution to choose. Greater regional units shall be created to replace the current road office and to take over tasks from the Road Directorate. What is the hold of this question today by the Council of State? Does it mean that the Stortinge should be presented with the budget for which the department provided? Is this the model that we are now seeing from the Workers' Party, which the Department will also put on? In connection with this, I am a little busy with them. Isn't it natural that such a process also implies that they are being added to be heard, and is it now added to a ring of hearings, so that even those added are drawn into the process that is to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1658	Before taking the floor, the President will note that the scheduled time for the morning meeting is now over, and will ask for the approval of this meeting to continue until the change of line is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1662	I would first like to stress that the state road system today operates in a good way, with the starting point and the guidelines on which it is based today. But we have a development here as in many other areas of society, and we see that the needs of the future are different from those of today. We see the need for skills building, including: in the case of the production part, and we see the need for specialisation. On the planning section, we see rationalisation possibilities – not least the establishment itself sees it. It is an active and good work in progress in the State Road Service, where employees are deeply involved in the process of going through and assessing: how best to organise the Road Service, in view of the need to achieve the most effective planning and management, in view of the need to have a decentralised presence, in view of the possibility of outsourcing work – not least as a result of technological developments? At all, there is a positive process that has a significant efficiency potential in itself. Not least on the administrative side. And I see good intentions that you're literally on your way to getting even more money out on the way. I aim that in this context, we will get to the Stortinget in an appropriate way on the question of how the Road Service will be organised in the future, but I take it for granted that the Stortinget is constantly focused on maximum efficiency work, with maximum fatigue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1669	After lottery, it ended up in aviation – and it becomes the regional airports. The message mentions the satellite navigation system, and it adds that 10 aerodromes will get it when it is approved in the first place. Now the committee has tightened it up a little and wants it to be implemented as quickly as possible throughout the system. And we're assuming that the Council of State thinks it's okay. But then comes the next question that I want answers to. In order to benefit from the satellite navigation system, we also need to have an aircraft equipment that has a technology that can use it. So my question to the Council of State is this: Does that mean that the next round of tenders on the regional grid will require the companies that submit tenders to have an aircraft equipment that can use the satellite navigation system, so that when it is approved – I hope it is not too long longer – the aeroplanes can also use it? For this, safety and regularity are important. My second question is also on the regional grid – and there is a debate we have had here earlier today. I still have difficulties in understanding the comments made by all parties, except SV, in the Committee on Prices – Review prices, maximum price levels and timetables – with a view to harmonisation during the next tendering period. Can the Council of State explain to me whether he expects that what is in the notes, if it is followed up, means significant price reductions, or price reductions at all, in the next bidding process, or does the Council of State have the same interpretation problems as I have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1680	As far as satellite navigation systems are concerned, we will, of course, take what the majority of the committee says. When it comes to material requirements, we will assess it at the next round of tenders. It would be wrong for me here and now to have a clear list of requirements for that bidding round. These include: the process we have just started, both in relation to county councils and in relation to other stakeholders. We want to sum it up and then present what requirements, among other things. shall be assigned to the material. But it's clear that it's time to do that, given that we're spending money installing -- let's call it -- the basic infrastructure. When it comes to the second question, about regional routes, I just want to say that planes and airports are one of the most necessary things we have in many parts of our country for housing and for an efficient business. If we do not have it, then we will lose both residence and business, with the dramatic consequences it has. It's also the way that air traffic is the most polluting way we have to move. It is about twice as polluting as, for example, driving a car. I record that SV has a lot of counter-conceptions about car emissions – clearly something less about what comes out of aircraft. Now leave it. So, thirdly, it's precious. It is in a place between the obvious needs, the costs and the environmental pressures involved, we need to find the balance point in the future. And then we'll do what you say here from the committee, we'll go through the grid. It is clear that there will be more cost factors here. How much coverage are you going to have, what prices are you going to operate on, and what effort are you willing to make on the part of society? It's this balance sheet that gives the price structure. But the signal, the wish for lower prices in the regional network, I obviously take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15.ana.ud840e1689	The vote will now take a break in the debate, and a new sitting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
