ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e46	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e51	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e56	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is considered unanimously elected president of the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e64	The representative, Lars Sponheim, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e67	On behalf of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I will be presented with proposals for amendment to the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on VAT § 30, simplification of the tax payment for smaller enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e72	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e84	Ot. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001 contains three proposals for amendments to the current legislation. First of all, there is a change in the renting law § 3. Secondly, there is a change in the rent charge that relates to a precision in Section 12-5, first sentence, that the rent selection has the competence to deal with all disputes under the old rent law of 1939, and thirdly, it is a proposal to abolish a charge under the rent regulation law – Section 16 – that becomes superfluous as a result of Section 12-5, which relates to the competence of the rent selection. The Committee has no comments on the last two amendments. In the case of a change in Section 3 of the Rental Guards Act, the Government proposes an extension of the right of pre-purchase municipalities currently have in the event of the sale of tenancy warrants to property that can be owned by student housing. The Ministry argues that pre-emption rights imply that the owner will sell and that the seller will receive a market price. There is a broad political deal about a need for more student housing, and the proposal is supported by the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV. It appears from the setting that the Right and the Advance Party, on a principle basis, are indistinguishable. Right refers to the fact that they have previously supported municipal pre-emption rights in order to ensure the ability to acquire property for residents who have long had the current tenancy garden as their home, but are disunity in the extension proposed here. The party of progress is, in principle, indistinguishable in municipal and state pre-emption law. It is also stated that the Progress Party tells something more than others about its vision and commitment when it comes to student timetables. I want to add for the rest of the committee that the different parties could probably also have repeated the commitment that the individual party has shown to something different, and the suggestions that have been made in different contexts, but we didn't find that purposefully here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e97	As will be seen in the vote, the Right will vote against the proposal to extend the municipal right of pre-emption to student housing for student relationships. We do so in the light of a principle view of municipal pre-emption law, but also in the light of an assessment of the practical consequences of municipal pre-purchase law. We have previously, as also the case-rapporteur mentioned, been in favour of municipal pre-emption rights and to provide permission for purchase when there is a need to ensure that those who have already been tenants for many years can buy their own home and stay there. Now it becomes an extension of ownership. We have refused to have municipal pre-emption rights for housing and properties for other reasons. The problem with municipal pre-emption rights is that if you want to justify the need for municipal pre-purchase rights, you have to get a lower price by using municipal pre-purchase rights. If not, the municipality or others could have entered the usual bidding. So that means that there are some people who lose out on the use of municipal pre-purchase rights, usually by declaring municipal interest in the building perhaps before the bidding is done, and that it therefore affects others when they think about the possibility of buying. With regard to, for example: in the city where I come from, where the university is in the middle of the city, and where there is currently no shortage of student housing if you are willing to take a bus – there are vacant student homes on Fantoft, but people want to live in the central city area – it is clear that it could affect if you put up an aggressive campaign to buy and rebuild homes in central districts for student homes. Then you could also affect the price of the seller. That's our principle position. We believe that student relations should be able to enter normal bidding and ensure that there is no loser on the other hand in the form of a private owner, an organisation or, for that matter, in some cases, in which I have seen people interested – congregations and others who have owned a house that you wanted to move from. Then, after we gave the suspension, we have been presented with some issues related to the question of the extent to which it is practically possible for student relations to go out and participate in the regular bidding. So we're promoting a proposal in the hall today, which I understand has recently been distributed to everyone. That proposal is trying to address a problem that relations experience, namely that because you do not have a prior commitment to receive support for projects not submitted for approval to the Ministry, you do not know when to enter the bidding process, whether you will receive State aid, whether you will receive it this year, next year or in three years. This means that a certain level of self-financing or debt financing is required in order to hold a building mass until, for example: can afford to be converted into student housing. That is why we want the Government to investigate a system in which we can see whether we can give prior commitments on funding for student housing to be established in existing property, within the cost framework we otherwise set to such projects. If these cost frameworks are kept, it should be possible to obtain advance assurances that a given number of student housing will be supported if you enter and are a transferee of property in ordinary bidding. In particular, this proposal is equally relevant when it comes to municipal pre-purchase law, because it would be an equally serious problem if you wait three years to know the purpose of the municipal pre-purchase law was actually real, so that student relations can start rebuilding a building and actually use it. In this way, this is a proposal that is important to us who are opposed to municipal pre-emption rights. But it is also a proposal that is important for those who are in favour of municipal pre-emption rights, because if you are to establish student housing in the existing building stock, you will encounter this problem. So we want the Storting to ask the Government to work out such a system, and we hope that we can get support for this. There are some places where there are no vacant plots to create new, large projects, where the most important thing in the years to come will be to build central student dwellings in the ordinary building mass that are already re-regulated to housing. In the case of student housing, there are many creative transformations, not least in the silos that are being rebuilt in Oslo, where we see another type of property that can be converted into student housing. That's why I hope there are several parties that might be willing to support the proposal. I would like to be given the opportunity to comment on proposal No. 1, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e112	Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e115	As the rapporteur said, there has been a cross-political agreement that it will be important to provide for more student housing. We've tried to contribute to this in different ways, and Ot.prp. No 45 do so by proposing pre-purchasing rights for properties so that they can be used for student housing, built or reconstructed by interconnections. The Christian People's Party supports this. For us, it is also important to stress, as it says in the proposition, that if there are residents who stay in the property, it is important that they are given the first right, and as it says: ‘The assessment must also emphasise that the dwelling is the home of the occupant, while other potential stakeholders do not have such an emotional connection with ownership. However, if the property is transferred to others, the lessee will have the right to continue the lease under the same conditions as before.’; This is important for the Christian People's Party. We are at all looking to find flexible arrangements, so that we can offer reasonable housing to students. We see the Right's proposal here today, asking for an investigation, just as an attempt to find arrangements. It can't possibly be wrong that the government is investigating this, and then we'll have to decide when the investigation comes. I would recommend that the Christian People's Party support the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e129	So even though it is the case that the Progress Party is in favour of municipal pre-emption rights, it is on a principle basis. The Progress Party has no objections to the proposal to provide more housing for students, which is a major need today, especially in the big cities and, above all, in Oslo. The Progress Party has been committed to guaranteeing the construction of 2000 student housing over a four-year period, and has also been committed to the full funding of student furniture through the Husbank. However, as mentioned above, the Progress Party is a primary opponent of municipal or state pre-purchase rights for properties and housing units, and thus one cannot endorse this proposal on that basis. What is needed is the construction of several housing units in total, and then primarily in the big cities, not a shift of housing problems across to other groups looking for housing, as is stated here. The majority here, in my view, address the problem at the wrong end, and it does not help to solve the main problem itself, namely a general lack of housing and student housing in the larger cities. For these reasons, the Progress Party finds that it is opposed to the proposal to amend Section 3 of the Law on Municipal Pre-buying Rights for Rents. There's no doubt that we need more student homes. I know there have been many debates, that there has been much said about this earlier in this room, but little has been done. I am still familiar with the situation in this area. It is also the case that building more student homes would relieve the housing pressure, especially here in Oslo, as prices are so high precisely because of the great pressure and the mismatch between supply and demand for housing. More construction is the thing, and then the Achilles heel, especially once again in the case of Oslo, residential property, available land that can be used for housing. As far as the proposal from the Right is concerned, the Party of Progress supports the seventh and, lastly, that proposal. We think the proposal is a positive contribution to relieving the graceful situation we have with regard to student housing here in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e142	SV has supported the Government's proposals in this matter. We have not listed our policy for the construction of student housing in the setting, but I think we would have got pretty high in that competition if we had chosen to do so. SV does not have the fundamental opposites to the law of the Progress Party and the Right. We see that action is needed in the housing sector and that it is necessary to exercise the right of pre-emption in order to establish a sufficient number of student homes. When you are concerned about what are the main problems in terms of building enough student homes and cheap rental homes, I would say that there is no doubt that the site situation is one of the most important things – not only the lack of land, but also the price of the plots. This is why one of the main instruments for achieving the objectives in these key areas is that, in particular, the State and the municipality are willing to enter into such low-cost land projects. That's what you have to do to get prices down. In fact, it is the only thing that will work — if you don't go in with very high government grants — to bring prices down to such a level that students or others with poor advice can afford to live there. So to the proposal that has been submitted from the Right today. In the SV's view, it seems very good to have such a system worked out, perhaps linked to this matter. For this purpose, it is necessary to make progress in the establishment of several student homes, and then the financing of it is a key factor. The right-hand proposal is to make funding more predictable for those who want to build, and then we who want to build more must join in and see if it is possible to find mechanisms to clarify funding at an earlier stage. Then we also have to assume that more projects are realized. And it's a goal that, as I see it, the entire Storting joins. SV will therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e153	The President will draw attention to the fact that this proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget under its Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e156	In the meantime, after holding a short article, I got enough damage to be able to choose a card. Let me then add two points. First of all, I would like to say to Ivar Østberg, who drew under the supervision of those who might have had a rented building as their home: I am glad that one in the proposition runs under the fact that it is the one for which it is relevant not to be raised at the door. It should be a premise that there is still room for rent. So to Erna Solberg's suggestion. I see it this way, as the President now did, that there is a proposal that Storting will be invited to decide. But let me say from the Center Party's side that there is a need for a broad commitment to securing more student housing, and that there is a need for joint effort – from municipalities, the House Bank, relationships, foundations and many others. I see this proposal as a contribution to additional creative solutions to secure even more housing. So when we get that far, I'm going to get the Center Party to vote for this proposal for a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e167	All parties are engaged in finding more and more grips, so that the establishment of student housing is given a boost. The position we are now considering, and this proposal can contribute to it. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would therefore recommend that this proposal be adopted now, but, like the representative of the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear that we do not want to decide on it until the investigation is completed. I then expect the government to return to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e176	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 417]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e190	The majority of the municipal committee is not in favour of municipalities borrowing to purchase shares for permanent ownership. If you were to raise a loan, as suggested by the proposers, it would be extremely unwise to do so in order that the shares could not be sold. In order for municipalities to operate in the stock market, the shares must be available for sale in the usual manner. The majority believe that a result of the proposal would be that, in the absence of a return, the inhabitants of the municipalities would be at risk of getting a lower service offer. Of course, interest and instalments must be paid for such a loan and charged to the local government budget. If local authorities have own funds for which shares are purchased, the return need not be so large as to pay off the investment. Another thing is that the municipalities with a slow decision-making process are not suitable for acting in the share market. But when it comes to buying into permanent ownership, as proposed by the proposers, it does play a smaller role. With regard to the purchase of power shares, today we have a well-functioning market. Many municipalities that own power shares sell out because the return on the shares is less than the return on the sales income. We know the power prices are very variable, and right now the prices are very high. There are issues whether the municipality fits as the owner in an industry where there are violent fluctuations, and where the market and weather and wind also have a significant impact on the outcome. If a company needs capital, it is common for the company to go to its owners to obtain fresh capital. On such an enquiry to the municipality that owns, I think the answer is given: the municipality has no fresh capital to contribute. The overall risk is therefore too high for the proposal to be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e207	In principle, we agree with the rapporteur's assessment and the Government's answer to the question raised. It's like, from the Right's point of view, that this proposal in many ways has a distorted approach and may have expired on date. Ensuring public ownership in the power industry is not a current situation, as we see it. It may have been so, but there is no longer a need for public ownership, at least in the broad power industry. On the other hand, there may be a wish on the line side, and that leads me to that in very special situations a municipal owner could be in a financing problem. But it's in the special situations where sales from co-municipal owners of unsplit companies are experienced, i.e. on the line network. It's a particularly curious situation. Another similar situation may, of course, be where the statutes restrict the market in a sale, so that one public owner would need to borrow funds for another to be sold. This must, in our view, be governed, where appropriate, by statutes and decisions in that sector and not by a general opening of loans for share purchases. Furthermore, operational problems have also been identified, precisely because such a law block will not distinguish between power shares and other available shares on the stock exchange. We agree with the rapporteur and do not support the proposal. It may also be mentioned that if some political parties' views on the deletion of municipal debt were to be coordinated with the possibility of buying shares with borrowed funds, this would be in some logical contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e218	The Christian People's Party believes in municipal self-government, and we want to give maximum freedom to the local People's Government. We therefore found that the current legislation is too absolute in its provision that does not allow borrowings for share purchases. Furthermore, we have confidence that municipalities will be reasonable in relation to their possible new freedom. Kraftgesellschaft sees the Christian People's Party as an important part of the infrastructure in our country, and the municipalities that think it is important not to sell power companies, but rather to buy perhaps the neighboring municipality's axes, should once again have that freedom, even if they have to borrow for this share purchase. The deletion of debt is another issue, and if it becomes relevant and multiple for the deletion of debt, it will be according to criteria that do not make it illogical to go into this proposal. We therefore support the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e227	Does the President understand that Anita Apelthun Seele has taken up the proposal mentioned in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e230	Yes, I would like to be allowed to address that proposal. Otherwise, the next speaker on the list would have done that, but now I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e235	You could take it in choirs. But that's okay, the proposal is at least taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e238	It seems strange to listen to the Labour Party at the case manager after his presentation of this case. It is strange to record the lack of willingness which he actually refers to considering what this proposal contained in Document No. 8:33 really is about. It does not involve a general opening for a share purchase loan. The proposal is a proposal for a change in the municipality that should allow a municipality to think long-term relative to local ownership even if a municipality does not have liquid resources in its eyes. It's a proposal that, in our view, is both wise, sensible, and forward-looking. In this case, an actual scare, not least from the Right, is that the consequence of this proposal may be that the municipalities will no longer be able to take care of their primary tasks in relation to their inhabitants. I have to ask: what kind of striking lack of trust in the local self-government is such a plural remark, which, therefore, both the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are all about? Let me remind you that we will have a case later in ours that relates to the municipalities' economy, which actually has much more to do with the municipalities' ability to do their primary tasks, so I hope these three parties will take with them what they have said here, and the concern they have that the municipalities will not carry out their primary tasks, for the treatment of these matters. We have put forward this proposal because there was a narrowing in the municipality, and it was warned that such a proposal would be designed in a way that would allow the ministry to spend more time just to produce a text that did not provide general possibilities to raise loans for share purchases. So the goal is that a municipality should have the possibility to secure local ownership over time. We're not hiding that we're busy with public ownership in the power sector and what it has to say when it comes to long-term, local care. We are dissidents in today's regime, which is borderlined when it comes to strategic ownership, voluntary adaptations and the marketing of power shafts. For those who still want to claim that this is about the possibilities of general borrowing, it's made a clarification from the minority. The proposal is therefore also designed in such a way that the Government should have the opportunity to come back with a legislative change that suits that very much. So here, on the one hand, there are possibilities and on the other hand there are limits to consider the main concerns of the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e250	The Progress Party supports the rapporteur's proposal for a vote and, if not, the views of the majority on this matter, if it does not agree with the proposal. The Progress Party does not see it as a municipal task to be a shareholder speculator or a joint owner of a power company or energy plant. The Progress Party considers that any share investment poses a certain risk of loss, including in the energy sector, and it would not be reasonable to allow municipalities to be tempted to raise large loans to invest in power shares on behalf of the municipality's inhabitants. On the other hand, public ownership in Norway is already too large. It is a big problem for Norway that the public actually owns 50 pst. by enterprises and industry in this country. The Progress Party therefore wishes to see changes, inter alia: in concession law, so that private individuals can buy more heavily into energy plants. This would help to increase the value of municipal energy plants, and more municipalities would be able to sell their energy plants at a higher market price than they currently receive – at private level – and thus both cancel their loan debt and significantly strengthen their economic situation in the future. A major problem for Norwegian municipalities today is, in fact, high loan debt. It's a well-known problem for all of us. So today, municipalities have to sell their shares mainly to Statkraft or to other municipalities. This gives too low a price for these types of shares, when there are so few buyers in the market. So the proposal from the SV and the Central Party is a proposal that somehow reverses the whole development of the energy sector in time, and fortunately there is no one other than the two parties themselves who think that the proposal is something particularly good. Nor is there any doubt that the municipalities are not a good enough professional ownership. The power industry, the energy industry, has become very complicated today, and we need professional owners who can take care of and carry on Norwegian energy companies in a highly competitive situation, which they will face in the future. Therefore, my clear conclusion is that the power market and energy plants must have a more professional ownership, and the municipalities do not fit into this ownership in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e259	This case concerns Norway as an energy nation. There has been a large wave of buying-in across the country in the energy sector. It's rolled, and we'll see it goes on. The struggle will be about market shares and who will have the billions of revenues from electricity customers. Traditionally, Norway has had a high level of public control and control over energy resources. The question is whether national governance is to be maintained and whether public owners are part of that strategy. Statkraft has now been given new financial muscles by the bulk of the population. They are expected to play such a role, but it is quite clear that the majority and the Government want the municipal sector to become owners of the power market. The progress party and the right is saying it clearly and openly. The working party does not say that, but in practice it is what this case is about. For the matter it is that there are many municipalities that are currently owners in the power market. And what this law change that was passed last year was to deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to behave as other sensible owners and take care of their interests as owners in the power market. They should be denied something that other owners can only be denied by their bank connections if the bank connection believes that they do not have a financial backbone to borrow. That would also be the case with the municipal sector. The reason why SV was aware of this when we dealt with the change in the law last year was a letter from the Municipal Bank that the committee received. And in that letter, the Municipal Bank writes: «In its opinion, the Community Bank has shown, as an example, municipal investment in power companies. In the restructuring of the power sector, some municipalities, especially in the districts, have shown great commitment to preserving municipal influence and ownership. For example, individual municipalities in whole-time municipal power teams have decided to sell their share of the power layer in the open market. The other municipalities have decided to exercise their right of pre-emption on the basis of a strong desire to maintain the local ownership of the power plant. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has in Ot.prp. No 43 the fact that when municipal limited liability companies are set up to carry out ordinary municipal tasks, there will be a limited need for share capital. In the example mentioned above, however, municipalities would not have been able to take over the holding without the use of debt financing. In the event of such requests, both the county and the financial institutions shall assess in a regular manner whether the total debt burden is no greater than that which is sound from the balance sheet of the annual budget and financial plan.’;» This means that the Kommunalbank here gives SV and our co-sponsors right in what we say, namely that we are creating a problem here for the municipalities that want to act as responsible owners in the power market and take care of their interests based on how they feel about the situation and, in consultation with their creditors, assess a borrowing situation. I share the view of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that we will hardly find the great speculators among the municipalities. Here it is a question of maintaining a long-term ownership, where one wants primarily to ensure local ownership. Every time this matter or similar matter is discussed, there is very high talk about the enormous risk associated with the purchase of such shares. There is always some risk associated with the purchase of shares, but few shares have been as stable and as secure on returns as the power shares. It's enough that some municipalities don't want to act in such a professional ownership role as it's referred to, but some people might. And the thing is, it's going to be the majority and the government now refuse them. They will refuse this way of managing their ownership, which will in the long run make it impossible for municipalities to maintain the large share of the share market they now own. I perceive that it is a political objective with the entire proposal that was initially tried hidden, and was not taken up as a clear intention of the proposal. Then to the practical objections raised to the text of the proposal contained in Document No. The 8th proposal. When the matter was up last year, an enquiry was sent to the Government to get legal assistance to design the text. The text of the law that came back came at a time when the committee was about to give up, and it was already clear that the legal text that was proposed was not very good. That is why it is now repeated in the proposal that, in that case, the Government is asked to come back with a change of law that better respects the intention of the proposal, namely that it should not be opened up to a general share purchase, but only for this particular purpose, which should also be important for the Government for historical and ownership reasons. I am not going to promote the proposal again, but I have to say that I am amazed that the Workers' Party, which has been a champion for a long time so that the public will still have an opportunity to act as owners in this strategic and economically important market in Norway, leaves the municipalities with ownership in the way this bill does. It amazes me greatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e287	It's going to be line change. The President will propose that the change of lines be limited to three lines – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e292	After all, sales between owners are governed by articles of association and shareholder agreements. If you want a sale, it's clear that it's possible to sell those shares even if you care about changing the statutes and shareholder agreements. It just takes a little longer to do it that way. I think all the experience shows that the power teams merge in order to compete in the market. The small power layers are, of course, losers in such a game, because it's a huge sum it's about. I just want to show that when the Energy Act came all the way back in the early 1990s, it was put up to stimulate larger units, and it was probably someone who had unrealistic targets for how large those units would be and how few they would be in the country. At least it's moved that way, even if it goes slowly. It is clear that the municipalities have to provide very, very large sums if you are to participate and compete. I'm probably a member of national ownership, and that's because falling rights and concessions are also conditional on national ownership, up to 75 pst. as far as I can remember on the move. It's not that you don't want national ownership, but you have other ways to fix it. I just want to repeat that the power turnover works well today. When the construction of power plants started, it was natural that municipal ownership or proportion was created that others used as a model to get light around the city and built. Today it's completely different. Consumers are served with larger owners who can achieve rational operation, and we should also be concerned that this is what serves consumers the most, and not that municipalities take out loans to secure local ownership and thus cannot take advantage of economies of scale and have the potential to provide reasonable electricity to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e301	It is true that it is important to focus on the need for both a safe, secure and reasonable electricity supply for consumers and that it needs to be a professional owner in order to achieve it. But I am probably surprised that the representative Johansen from the Workers' Party is now almost in plain language saying that it is unnatural that it is the municipalities that can be it, that you have other ways to sort this out and secure public ownership. I expect you to aim for State power and the large capital expansion that you've got there. It should perhaps guarantee that it means that the Workers' Party is absolutely sure that State power will continue as a large owner and not privatized. But when the representative Johansen points out that it is only the big units and the big owners who can offer good terms to their customers, it is not that right. This case is not a matter of requiring municipalities to continue as owners or to require them to buy up. It is about giving them the same opportunity as other power market owners, namely to raise loans when they want to extend their ownership for strategic or commercial reasons. Such assessments must allow all owners to do completely independently of who they are. These are the same rules for those who act in the same market and the assumption is broken by this proposal that has now been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e308	I have the impression that SV still lives in the age when the public had a monopoly on leghold traps and heirloom silver. That's how it was supposed to be in the past. I have to say that I have a little difficulty in getting access to the purpose, especially to the representative from SV, with this public ownership. I do not see any particular practical benefit for Norwegian energy production that one should get such ownership as it is likely to be added here. When the Energy Act came in 1990, the energy market was liberalised. That time it was over 200 power plants. Everyone said at the time that it was going down to five-six-seven-eight-ten, it was going to create bigger units, and it was going to be competition. This trend has slowed somewhat. Although some still want there to be strong public ownership in the energy sector and that the inheritance silver must be kept on public hands, I would like to ask if it is such that SV adds that we will get a new type of rich power municipalities. We know that those municipalities – I can mention Bykle in my county of Aust-Agder, which is the richest municipality in the country – that have a lot of power resources and power production within their borders, are among the richest in income per country. the population. If some municipalities were to go to large purchases of power shares, it could not be a side effect that we got new municipalities that became very rich, while others became poor again because they sold at a bad price – and you get a bad price in today's market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e315	The reason why we're involved in the energy sector is because there's big values there. It's been, and it's going to be in the future. It's going to be very valuable papers for those who own these resources. There are incomes on this, and this is about governance. SV has no objection to public revenues. On the contrary, we think it is absolutely right both that public guarantees strategic ownership, and that public can get income from activities that waste a lot of money. In the power sector, there is both business profit and rent. So it's a very important sector. Then the representative from the Progress Party asks if there is any problem that some municipalities will then be rich in ownership. No, the fact that some municipalities are getting rich is not the biggest problem SV sees. We're probably seeing a bigger problem in that wealth accumulates on a private and commercial basis, which is much more difficult to distribute back to tasks that are significant and important. In this case, SV has not taken up any rematch on the Energy Act at all, and that is not what this matter is about. It is therefore a question of what the Progress Party should understand, namely equal rules for those who are to act in the same market. There is one set of rules for private operators and owners and another set of rules for municipal owners, because they are not allowed to borrow if they are to maintain their ownership in a sensible and long-term way. They can choose to sell, they can choose to buy, but now you've decided that they shouldn't be able to do the same thing as other owners. It is a principle that I had at least hoped the Progress Party had understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e324	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e327	In Ot.prp. No 43 for 1999-2000, the Government proposed clarification of the current loan rules for the local government sector. This change led to local authorities no longer having access to borrowing to purchase shares, and loan-funded share purchases involve a risk of financial loss that local authorities should not be able to take. Of course, municipalities are required to carry out important social tasks, such as: the operation of kindergartens and schools for their inhabitants. The law, as it stands today, allows municipalities to borrow such investments as are necessary to provide these welfare services. I believe that opening up local authorities to finance the purchase of shares may have several negative consequences. If a municipality borrows large amounts to buy shares, the municipality will have a heavier debt burden. This will allow the next generation of residents of the municipality to remain in high debt. Part of the future income of the municipality must therefore be used to serve this debt instead of better welfare services for its inhabitants. The result may be a reduced service provision. The legislative proposal of the representatives Kleppa and Andersen is properly based on a future expected return on these shares. Although we expect the power sector to throw money off in the future, this will hardly apply to all power companies. For individual companies, the return could be small or completely absent. As a result, the municipality could be left with a high debt and no expected profit, which should have financed the welfare offer in the municipality. The aim of the proposal from Kleppa and Andersen, as I understand it, is to open the door for the municipality to finance the purchase of power shares. I would like to point out that in the legal text it is not possible to distinguish between the purchase of shares in a power company and the purchase of shares in any other company that is listed on Norwegian or foreign stock exchanges. Also on this basis, I have not recommended making the proposed changes to the law. The rules of the Local Government Act on financial management should contribute to sound and sound financial management in municipalities. With good economic governance, municipalities will be able to ensure a stable welfare offer both in the short and long term. I do not want to prevent municipalities that have their own funds from purchasing shares in the power market. However, I believe that financing a loan for the purchase of shares in practice would impose too high a risk on municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e343	It's an expression that says where there's will, there's the way. I found both the letter from the Council of State and its articles today show that she is not interested in investigating the possibilities any closer. I find reason to remind you that there is actually not creativity cork in SV or in the Central Party that underpins the proposal that is being made, but a demonstration from the Municipal Bank to the committee of what the changes in the municipality last year meant. In fact, for those who are concerned that many municipalities have a high debt burden, there will be opportunities for return, as a basis for funding public services. I notice that the Council of State at this point is, in fact, unilaterally concerned with securing the municipalities that already have funds, the possibility of obtaining additional income. So the intention behind it is the one that the Municipal Bank pointed to. There are municipalities that are currently interested in running local ownership. Some of them are pressured every week to consider selling their power axes because there is a lack of consistency between tasks and resources today. But some municipalities still want it to be possible to retain the local ownership with the benefits they see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e352	I do not have much more to add in relation to what I said in my previous post. I think we have to find out that we disagree on this matter. I believe that it is too risky to give the municipalities the opportunity to finance the purchase of shares. This could lead to, as I said, that some municipalities will process large debts that others in the future will have to pay, and that I think will also be able to go beyond the service offered to their citizens by the municipalities. I have nothing more to add than what I said in my previous post. Here we disagree, and I am glad that it is a majority that supports what is also the view of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e359	Governments draw a picture of municipalities that you fear to run away and take up difficult loans to override the possibility of building kindergartens, schools and caring for your primary tasks. I want to remind you that this new law has been in force for a year. In any year before it, municipalities have had the opportunity to raise such loans. So it was in 1991 the new Energy Act came, and that means that we have years of experience behind us with both new energy laws, many municipal energies and the ability to borrow. On what basis and on what basis is the Government building the view that the municipalities are going to act so irresponsible that they are going to apply for large borrowings that they are not able to serve? I am happy to see such a release from the local authorities. On the contrary, I feel that most of them are very careful. And I don't think there are so many municipalities that will need such an opportunity as this opening would give, but I strongly react to putting the municipalities in a different competitive position than other owners. Finally, I would like to ask whether it is the government's policy through this bill that the municipal sector should be phased out slowly, but certainly as owners in the energy sector. If that's not the case, the government will not have to change this law for too long again so that the local government sector can maintain its ownership in a reasonable way, as other owners can, if you still want such ownership. If not, this will in practice be a way in which the municipalities are slowly dispersed as owners in the power sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e369	When the Government believes that we should have legislation that contributes to sound and good financial management in the municipalities, it does not mean that we consider the municipal sector irresponsible, as the representative Andersen here suggests, but we simply believe that loan-funded share purchases, as proposed, pose a risk of financial loss that the municipalities should not take. The government has not taken a position on the last time the representative of Andersen was involved, namely the municipal sector as owner or owner. That's not the theme of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e376	Several have not asked for the word for a line, and the string change is thus terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e379	There was an article from the Center Party a considerable time ago that made me draw on my list of speakers. Here the Right was almost accused of expressing distrust of local democracy, and that is by no means the case. On the other hand, the Right has limited confidence in Norwegian municipalities as speculators, and that is something quite different, of course, because that is what we are talking about in this case. I'm going to admit that over a number of years, we've had problems with what's called vertically integrated power companies, where we've had brokerage, production and line ownership in the same company. And if you get a sale in a company like that, some people who want to take responsibility for the lines can get a certain financial problem. But the proposers here don't talk about infrastructure, they don't talk about public responsibility, no, here it is about strategic purchases and returns. That's what the SV and the Center Party argue. And that's what surprises me in this situation, that you're not concerned with phasing out public ownership where you take care of what's a public responsibility, infrastructure. So I'll point out the minority comment where you say: ‘There is reason to point out that municipalities which at any time have their own funds to make share purchases for this purpose may make as fatal judgements as would those who would be dependent on loans...’. This is a solid misunderstanding on the part of the minority. It's actually so that you can do as bad business with your own funds as with borrowed funds, but the fatality of it is different. And it has been explained by the Council of State and the rapporteur; the fatality is different when these poor dispositions are made with borrowed funds than if they were made with savings of capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e396	Thank you for Hoddevik's inauguration of Right's position. I can only repeat once again that there is no willingness on the part of the Right to consider the background to this proposal, the recommendation, the evidence that came from the Municipal Bank in relation to the current limits, where the possibility has existed, but where last year the change has led to a narrowing. So Right's intervention gives me the possibility of a question that concerns future ownership in the power sector. If Sverre Hoddevik were to give advice on how to secure public and local ownership in the future, would he suggest that it still had something to do with giving local elected people the opportunity to borrow in a situation where they were without liquid means? It could even be done with a time limit. Would he give it advice, or does he mean that the tightening that has now happened is not going to follow? I would say that Karin Andersen will be entitled to the consequences of phase-out. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e403	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e406	It is such that the ability and willingness to understand what this is about may vary, but I can assure the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that these practical situations have been seen in close proximity for many years. So it's not entirely unknown to the undersigned what's going on in these municipal companies. I have previously said in my post that there are curious situations with regard to infrastructure where some municipalities can get into a somewhat awkward situation. But it's also from the Right and my side said that in these special situations, with such a tool as you put up here, the side effects will be immeasurably much greater than the intended effects. So then you have to make a proposal of a completely different special nature if you are to take the curiousness that Meltveit Kleppa and that he signed now is to debate. Some other advice is not easy to give in addition to what has already been said, but I feel that the matter is so far debated and has nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e413	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e429	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Finn Kristian Marthinsen has the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office, who sits in Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e442	On behalf of case rapporteur Åse Wisløff Nilssen, I would like to stress that the proposal for a new law on foundations contains many improvements in relation to today's law. On most points, the position of the Judicial Committee is unanimous. An overall committee has noted that the proposition does not assess the function of foundations in Norway. Nor is there any assessment of the role that Norwegian foundations can or should play in the future. Nor has an assessment of experience from other countries been included in order to define the policy that best promotes the positive contribution of foundations to society. The Committee has withdrawn some of these important assessments in its comments, as we will give signals of the direction in which we want progress to be made. There is a significant build-up of wealth on private hands in our country. For this reason, it is important through various measures to stimulate private individuals to find it desirable to set up foundations that serve societal purposes. We want a development in which foundations can be more active social actors and contribute funds to culture, research, humanitarian and social action. The establishment of foundations gives individuals, businesses and others a good opportunity to contribute funds to social measures, while at the same time increasing the number of foundations to be a good way to manage their funds. The Committee is aware of the fact that foundations are also established abroad from a local point of view. Such foundations are characterized by the promotion of voluntary efforts and the spirit of hard work at local and regional level. The Committee considers it desirable to stimulate such developments also in Norway. The Committee is unanimous in stressing the importance of encouraging the future creation of several non-profit institutions in Norway by legislation, both constitutional law, tax law and other relevant laws. Equally important is that it is not made unnecessarily complicated to establish or operate a foundation or that foundations are charged with costs which reduce their ability to fulfil their purpose. Such a policy will be necessary and important, not least for what is often referred to as the third sector. The proposition bears a certain mark that the desire to control foundations has been fundamental to the design. The Christian People's Party believes it is a negative approach to the matter. As the entire Committee states in its note under Chapter 3: ‘It is not a task for the legislator to intervene in order to protect legitimate and competent individuals from unreasonable dispositions.’ The proposal to establish a governing body is based on the desire to exercise control and supervision of foundations. The Christian People's Party sees the need to exercise some control over foundations, because there is no ownership control, as it is, for example. in companies. It is also natural for the public to exercise this oversight, but the Christian People's Party believes that the Ministry's proposal for constitutional supervision is not desirable. Today, it is the county officials who exercise supervision and control. It's a system that's been working well and that involves a closeness to the users who are valuable. This proximity makes it easier to provide guidance and service to foundations and the local environment, which will be lost if a central foundation supervision is established. The Christian People's Party has made a balance between the benefits it achieves by establishing a supervisory body, for example: competence in the field of action, efficient use of resources and consistent practices and predictability, towards the benefits of the current system. We also believe that the positive effects described by the establishment of a founding supervisor can be realised by today's system, if we are to bet on the schooling of the statesmen. The Christian People's Party believes that with the technological opportunities that exist in today's societies, it must be possible to gather and exchange practices and experiences from the different counties. This will also enhance skills and ensure consistent practices. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the proposal to set up a founding body and a register of foundations does not imply a step in the right direction as regards the objective of a simpler Norway. Today, foundations can be registered in three different ways, through the Business Register, the Entity Register or the County Register of Foundations. It has already been suggested that registration be made as coordinated as possible and a common form has been established that can be used for registration purposes. The proposal to set up a central register of foundations will only lead to a limited simplification because the current ‘two- and three-track’ system will not disappear. In addition, when the Ministry wishes to charge the foundations with fees for registration, it means that the burden of the Ministry's proposals is greater than the benefits obtained. The Christian People's Party has therefore opposed this. With regard to the proposal to impose fees, we would like to stress in particular that there are many small foundations and that fees would weaken the ability of foundations to meet the public interest by means of funds. It believes the Christian People's Party is an unwanted development. The size of the Foundation's funds varies, and a majority of the Committee has joined the Ministry's proposal, which states that the foundations of the Foundation must have a minimum basic capital of DKK 200000, and the general foundations must have a basic capital of DKK 100000. The reason why business foundations are subject to some own rules, in addition to the capital requirement, is that they have creditors to a greater extent than other foundations. In some cases, a general foundation develops into a business foundation – in these cases, transitional rules have been laid down as to the date from which the foundation is to be regarded as a trader, etc. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the simplification that has taken place by the fact that different types of business foundations are no longer to be distinguished, as has been done so far. If a business foundation loses 2/3 of the basic capital, or the equity is less than fair, the board of directors is required to act. The majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party, has stressed that foundations for a non-profit purpose remain exempt from taxation. An important point that the Christian People's Party considers to be worthy of emphasis is that prudent capital management should not trigger fiscal obligations. It would be impossible to establish rules that certain forms of capital management, such as: deposits, shall be tax-free, while other forms, such as: investments and sales of shares should be taxable. The important distinction here, in relation to business foundations, is whether the income of the administration contributes to the realisation of the non-profit purpose of the foundation. The Christian People's Party has joined the Ministry's proposal for the size of the basic capital, but will stress that there is scope for granting exemptions from this requirement. We believe that the exemption should not be exercised in a rigorous manner. Here, it is important to look at the reasons why exceptions are being made. If there are good reasons for derogating from the general rule of NOK 100000 in basic own funds, this should be done. The Christian People's Party has not joined the proposal of the minority that the basic capital should be set at NOK 10 000, as we believe that the exemption from the general rule of law will be sufficient to cover the cases in which a foundation should be established, even if it does not meet the requirement of basic capital. The Committee also considers that it should be possible to derogate from the prohibition that the funds of the Foundation should not be distributed to the founder or his spouse/partner. This applies to cases where good reasons speak for it, e.g.: where a non-profit organisation establishes a foundation for the purposes of the organisation itself. It shall then also be possible for this organisation to receive funds from the Foundation. Other cases have also been mentioned. I refer you to the setting for details. The Committee has also unanimously agreed with the proposals on what to do with the funds of the Foundation if the Founder is dead and the Foundation does not meet the minimum capital requirement. With regard to the organisation of the bodies of the Foundation, the present system is continued. All foundations must have a board. The Governing Board may consist of a person, but in certain cases a minimum number of members of the Governing Board is set. If the foundation manages a capital of more than 3 million. kr, the Management Board must have at least three members. The Christian People's Party, and the entire Committee, are pleased that the ministry in this field does not follow up the committee's proposal that the foundation's establishment should not be on the board. It may be of great importance to the founder that he or she may later be involved in managing the funds of the foundation and thus realise his or her good intentions. It is also important that the law does not impose such strict requirements on the number of members of the board that compliance with the requirements will be difficult for small foundations. A foundation may also have bodies other than the board, but it must then be determined in a concrete way. Clear rules shall be laid down as to the competence of these other bodies and they shall not be able to intervene in the competence of the Management Board. In addition, all foundations must be subject to an accounting and auditing obligation. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e502	The draft law we have to deal with here today is a revision of the current Constitution. The amendments proposed are based on proposals from the Foundation Law Committee, which was reduced in 1996. The background for the review was a series of revelations that not all of the founding founders followed up their purpose. The characteristic of a foundation is that a property value at a legal disposition is set aside for a particular purpose. A foundation is a self-owned institution – or rather, without its owner. This is what separates foundations from other companies, where one has a company member who owns part of the company's wealth. We also need to distinguish between foundations and associations. Both companies and associations are governed by those who own the company or by the members of the association. A foundation shall be managed by its own body which is not based on ownership or membership but is independent in the management of the formation in accordance with the purpose of the assignment. Staples can have a wide range of purposes, from ideal to nutrient-oriented. The aim of the legal work is to take care of the foundation's distinctive character as an organisational form, to make the law more user-friendly and to prevent abuse of the foundations. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a law that prevents abuse and provides space for the best possible uniform control. We support the proposal that there should be a basic capital in the creation of a foundation, but with the right to exemption in some cases. That there should be accountability and audit obligations for all the foundations, we view it as a good rule, not least according to what I have already said about the background of the foundation. We want to monitor practices that provide a level playing field and ensure that competences in this particular area of justice are improved, and at the same time have an efficient use of resources. In view of the large connection this has received from the hearing authorities, we also feel that this is something that today’s supervisory authority as well as private and non-profit institutions fully support. We have asked the department to return to Stortinget with a concrete location. The working party does not consider a new independent supervisory body, but would like to add it to an existing body or to a specific county office. It is strange that the bourgeois parties in the committee here in Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, do not see the need to implement the work of a new law of formation and the need to have a more uniform approach, not least for the users of the public body and for individuals who want to have an overview of all the foundations we have in the country. Today we have more than 6,000 Foundations that are subject to this law. The importance of publicity, control and notoriety, of identity after and not least of company protection, requires that one must have a public registration. Such an organisation will simplify the work of the individual formation, when it becomes a common form for registration in supervision, in the Register of Entities and in the Register of Businesses – a simplification with a single form for all registrations, as opposed to today. This must be the simplification that everyone shouts about in today's forms fields. So, as I said, I am amazed at the conclusion drawn here by the bourgeois parties, by the Right and the Center parties. I take up proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e523	The representative Astrid Marie Nistad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e526	I would like to refer to the article by the working rapporteur. The installation covers the essential aspects of the view that the Right has in this case. I find little reason to repeat it. So there's just going to be a couple of very short notes. I think it is a pity that the Christian People's Party will not participate in setting the foundation capital at NOK 10 000, as is the case with the Right, the Center Party and the Advance Party. It should be unnecessary to make a request here to show the right to be liberal in the system of exemptions. I think you could have trusted the potential founders that they could judge it for themselves, without being dependent on having to apply for a waiver. Otherwise it is not surprising that the Workers' Party wanted a central register, with fees. But it's quite remarkable that the Progress Party is part of that Gaul. We have noticed from those who make up a majority in the Committee – but as it may be suggested, it is not a majority in the Chamber – that the Government believes that the issue of central constitutional supervision is such a fundamental element in the bill that if a change were to be made to that point, a new review and recast of the entire legislative proposal would be necessary. This takes the majority of the committee into account and then proposes, at least initially, that the whole matter be sent back to the Government. If it is that proposal that is being voted down, we will, in a subsidiary way, be dealing with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e537	Before the representative of Haaland Horpestad is given the floor, the President will ask the representative of Astrid Marie Nistad if she will also raise proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. - It's nodding. This means that proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e540	Foundations are an independent entity. On that basis, not only governance but also control is of importance. With such eyes, it is important to ensure predictable and uniform practice of the legislation dealing with foundations. The Progress Party believes that a central supervisor will be the best solution. This will provide opportunities for efficient resource use and for the development of professional competence. This development of competence and improved efficiency will allow for better guidance and service. The fact that a central register is to be more expensive than having it spread in the respective counties is unlikely — rather the opposite. Then the question remains about who is going to pay for the control and servicing of the foundations. Here it is important to stress that Norway has many small foundations. A person must in no way be in a situation where the fees take an inappropriate part of what is otherwise to be distributed for the purpose of the formation. It is also possible here to look at the difference between foundations that have industry as their purpose and other foundations. We see it as desirable that the problems can be solved in the most cost-effective way possible, i.e. that we are open to adding a supervisory and service responsibilities to an existing body, as long as they are properly respected. Of course, the Progress Party will not in any way have any fees that exceed the actual costs of the scheme. In any case, we want to have the question of registration and the fee for the foundations back to Stortinget before finalising this. The progress party therefore sees no need in any way to send the matter back to the government with the wish for a new proposal. There is clearly a difference between foundations intended for business activities and foundations of a purely charitable nature. In this context, we take up the proposal in the setting, which gives a differentiated capital requirement based on what the purpose is. The private part of Norwegian contributions for non-profit purposes, such as research, social and humanitarian purposes, is lower in Norway than in countries with which it is natural to compare. Greater participation from the private sector and the voluntary sector in Norway would be desirable. In order to achieve such increased efforts, no unnecessary closures and obstacles to the establishment of non-profit institutions must be put in place. The setting of a requirement of NOK 100000 at least in the case of basic own funds is hardly a good solution in this way. The fact that a person believes to allow a not too rigid exemption is not reassuring either – because when a formation is set up, there should be no greater uncertainty about the possibilities for doing so than is necessary. A statutory starting point could be deterrent to those who wish to set up foundations with low capital, even if they would probably be exempted. Our proposal for a minimum capital of NOK 10000 will avoid such cases. I am therefore referring to our proposal for Section 14 of the Basic Capital. It would be unfortunate for a national founding body to spend a lot of time and resources dealing with waiver cases in this subordinate area. As a result, the costs borne by the foundations may become unnecessarily high.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e566	The representative, Toril Haaland Horpestad, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e569	I will mainly join in what the working case rapporteur has presented in the vote on the Constitutional Act, but I will make a few brief comments in addition. Foundations are, as I said, an appropriate way to organise different businesses in both the public and private sectors. Foundations can be used locally, intermunicipally and regionally to solve joint tasks. They can also contribute to the promotion of voluntary work and good spirit and be a way of organising activities in the third sector. In view of this, it should continue to be easy to establish and operate foundations both economically and administratively. When the Committee agrees that public and private foundations should be treated as equivalent, control and supervision must be adapted so that small, non-profit foundations remain viable. The central party is of the opinion that the requirement for a basic capital of DKK 100000 for general foundations may help to exclude the establishment of small non-profit institutions. So we want equity to be lowered, which can make it easier to establish foundations. We believe that this should be reviewed, and we therefore support the proposal to send the proposal back to the Government, so that it can return to the Stortinget with a new proposal. If this proposal were to fall, we would, in turn, support the proposal of the Progress Party that it should be a base capital of DKK 10 000. As far as the composition of the board is concerned, I think it is also important, as the ministry has proposed, and to which the committee has agreed, that the founder of the foundation has the opportunity to sit on the board. The background for placing capital in a foundation is often that a person wants to have influence and follow up his intentions with the activities of the foundation. In that case, an exclusion from the Board could result in fewer people wanting to invest in foundations. In my view, this would be unfortunate and could result in fewer foundations with good intentions. With regard to the establishment of a central supervisory body, I am pleased that the majority of the committee is opposed to such a system. It now appears that there is a majority in the United Kingdom in order to maintain the regional level of the state as well, and that the state should continue to exercise control and oversight functions, and it would then be natural that they also have control and supervision of the foundations. It means greater local knowledge and closeness to users. With regard to the registration of foundations, we now have the Brønn Island Health Registers, and if the foundations are to be registered in several registers and use the same form, it must be natural to add it to the same business that makes other registrations. The establishment of a central supervisory body is both demeaning and unnecessary bureaucracy. It is also unfortunate that expenditure should be charged to foundations, as proposed. It surprises me that the government gets support from the Progress Party to charge the foundations with increased fees. The centre party does not want to charge the foundations with increased fees, we believe that the state still has to take the bill with registration, supervision and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e586	The proposal for a new Constitution is a major legislative reform. There are almost 9 000 foundations in Norway. Many of these are channels for significant willingness to donate and voluntary efforts. The foundations make a significant contribution to society, and the main purpose of the Government’s proposal for a new Constitution has been to build up under the form of formation. A key challenge in legal work has been to find a proper balance between promoting the will to allocate funds for good purposes through the use of foundations and the need for rules to prevent abuse of the form of foundations. I mean it's found a proper balance. The legislative proposal reinforces the requirement of independence. Over the years, there have been more examples of abuse of the form of formation — both by using foundations to circumvent different legal rules and by channelling funds to others than the foundation and the founder intended to benefit. A number of provisions have therefore been proposed clarifying the requirement of autonomy in relation to important issues, such as the composition of the board, the distribution of the funds of the foundation and the remuneration of trustees. At the same time, the abolition of the distinction between public and private foundations provides important simplifications of the constitution legislation, in line with the Government's objective of simplifying legislation. These amendments shall form part of the Committee. However, the majority of the Committee does not agree with the Government’s proposal to strengthen the public oversight of foundations by uniting such supervision. Since foundations do not have owners, it has traditionally been considered a public task to oversee the foundations, for example: to protect foundations against abuse. Today’s organisation does not provide a sufficiently coordinated and consistent practice, and there is insufficient opportunity to develop the top competence required by good service and control over foundations today. For those who consider donating large parts of their wealth to a non-profit foundation, it is important to feel secure that well-functioning public supervision will protect the purpose of the foundation, even after you are no longer here. The supervision of foundations is therefore important in order to preserve the peculiarity of foundations and their legitimacy and trust in the population. Ensuring trust in the form of foundations is therefore important for wanting to donate funds for good purposes through the use of foundations. The Constitutional Committee unanimously agreed to group the supervision in one place. The proposal was widely welcomed during the hearing. Among other things, it was supported by a joint opinion of 10 private and non-profit foundations and not least by a joint opinion of the countyers themselves. In other words, it is a clear signal from those who have practical experience in the supervisory work. Attention has been paid to the proximity of users on the part of the majority of committees, and it is also said that local knowledge can be important in the supervisory work. I would point out that the users of a foundation are both those who have given up their funds for the foundation and those who benefit from the foundation's operations. In a majority of foundations, and in particular in the large ideal foundations that make a significant contribution to society, users are not confined to one region. Also for the more localised foundations, local proximity to supervision is, after all, less important than good, rapid and efficient procedures based on a high level of competence. In order to justify the fact that supervision should continue to lie with the statesmen, the majority of them show that they do not wish to charge small idealistic foundations with burdensome charges for fees and charges. That's a point of view, of course. However, I find it difficult to understand that justification as a reason not to group the supervision in one place. The question of whether fees are to be paid is a separate one, which must be assessed independently of the question of how to organise supervision. Of course, even if the supervisory tasks remain with the county officials, it can be decided that foundations should pay fees in connection with registration. At the same time, of course, you can decide not to pay fees, even if you decide to group the supervision in one place. The proper and effective supervision of foundations requires a pool of resources and the development of competences that only a single and coordinated supervisory system can provide. A key point with the proposal for a new Constitution has been to strengthen the form of formation. This will be more difficult to achieve without a coordinated and thus strengthened supervisory system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e616	You have to hear a lot of strange things before your ears fall off. You probably shouldn't be so surprised these days, but I still have to say that I'm a little surprised by the Progress Party, my former party, and the argument for having a central register and possible introduction of fees. On the other hand, it may be necessary to be satisfied that the Committee agrees that there should initially be free access to foundations. Fortunately, it is not a task for the legislator to intervene in order to protect legitimate and competent individuals from individual dispositions. It is right and proper that no restrictions have been imposed on the purpose for which a formation may have been formed. Today, foundations have a positive role to play in Norway’s voluntary and socially useful work, and it often depends on the desire and, in fact, personal effort. It would be desirable to stimulate a development in Norway that promotes voluntary action and good spirit at local and regional level. To this end, tax legislation and other relevant laws should also stimulate the creation of foundations. Therefore, it must not be unduly complicated to establish and operate a foundation. At the same time, it is particularly important that foundations do not incur costs that reduce their ability to fulfil their purpose. Then I think about the smaller foundations. It is not pleasant that both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will set up a supervisory unit for foundations, where fees will most likely be introduced in the centralised system. Thus, I have little faith in what the Council of State referred to, that there might not be any fees. The eye-catching thing in this context is that the Progress Party supports the Workers' Party, and that such a system can actually see the light of day. What is the reason why the Progress Party is involved in asking the Ministry to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of a fee scheme for the registration of foundations is, to me, extremely incomprehensible. The forerunner of the Progress Party was Anders Langes Parti for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention in the private initiative. Creatorship is now suddenly thrown overboard, i.e. these principles. Now such good purposes can be taxed by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. But in the committee they are now in a minority. As a former representative of the Progress Party, I inform them that during this large-scale period, before the roll-over, it was such that the party opposed the creation of a boat register. I just want to make it clear. The same party fights against the increase in legal fees, and in connection with the Lottery Authority, we were also sceptical about the introduction of charging schemes. The best thing is that the county officials have these easy tasks that it is to record foundations, which can be recorded directly on data, without any supervision of their own. In the technological world, the tools available to you need to be used and not build up a bureaucracy with even more public employees. The proximity of users also has a certain importance when arranging formalities. But that's not the most important thing. The existence of foundations and others should not be complicated. Life should not be made sour for those who have to pay additional fees and charges, namely foundations. Economic foundations will continue to be registered, as was also the case rapporteur, in the Business Register, the Register of Entities and the Register of Foundations. I ask you, where will this end, with another bureaucratic register? And what's really the point? The foundation's ability to serve non-profit purposes will be impaired by fees, and that is not desirable from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e639	I was just going to briefly explain how SV is going to deal with the matter, and was probably not quite prepared to interfere with a painful settlement between the Progress Party and the Progress Party's outbreakers. But it is possible that it can also help to twist the knife around in this settlement when SV will agree with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in this matter. But it's not because we love fees. On the contrary, we are very sceptical about introducing significant fees in this area, but we actually see it as another question. It is difficult to see that those who make up the majority of the committee, but probably the minority in the case, can ignore the imprudence and poor control and tidyness of many foundations. In this context, I therefore feel that there is a significant need to clean up, to make clearer guidelines and to ensure that those who initially set up foundations are actually followed by the purpose of the foundation. We have had enough examples of the opposite, and that is the reason why SV believes it is in place to set up a central register, change the law as the Workers' Party and the Advance Party propose in the vote, and as the Government has proposed for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e646	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e660	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be restricted to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to one of the independent representatives. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e667	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, Tor Nymo, I will present the opinion of the Committee on this matter. When the Falkanger Committee presented its position in NOU 1993:16, after verification of bankruptcy law, etc., some amendments were proposed to the rules on so-called operating accessories. The committee established a permanent link to real estate as a legal protection requirement for this form of pledge. However, when the Stortingen brought the matter under consideration, a majority of the committee chose to ask the Government to submit proposals for amendments to § 3-4 of the Pensions Act, with a view to allowing legal protection for property under operating accessories when registered in the Solver Register. The reason for the majority’s view, which is currently supported by an overall committee, is that today’s system creates practical problems and limits access to capital to business. The removal of the requirement that property in operating accessories must be taken together with ownership or rights of use of property also requires some other amendments to the mortgage law and some other laws. In order to clarify the boundary between operating accessories and what is characterised as ordinary property accessories, § 3-4 fourth paragraph of the Mortgage Act is amended to refer to § 2-2 of the Mortgage Act, where ordinary accessories are defined. Furthermore, the second paragraph of Section 3-6 of the Preservation Act, which said that the disclosure of the operating accessories could only be protected if the conditions for a valid pledge were met, were deleted. The rules today reflect a general principle and are therefore superfluous. Furthermore, Paragraphs 4 to 3 of the mortgage law are clarified to include the rental right to commercial premises. Legal protection is achieved by handing over the access document, so-called a handcuff. The Ministry has also proposed to amend the Mortgage Act § 5-4, so that legal protection for outlays in operating accessories is achieved by object clearing in the Lösøreregister. With regard to the current practice of access for farmers to pledge under the pawnage laws §§3-8 and 4-10, it is proposed to be statutory. A clarification is also included in Sections 3 to 8 of the Securities Act that individual pledges of motor vehicles should be protected against credentials. In addition, I would like to mention that there are some changes to which the Committee has given its unanimous agreement in the Enforcement Act. At one point the Committee shall be divided into a majority and a minority. The Ministry has proposed that each individual should pay one fifth of the costs of settlement in order to obtain the right to pledge in the operating accessory. This is unnecessary in the view of the majority. When the Storting adopts such a change of rules, it should not have the effect of requiring them to pay the public fee for the amendment of the rules. Moreover, I refer to the Committee's recommendation and include the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e690	The background to today's legislative proposal for a change is the decision here in Stortingen to allow the deposit in operating accessories to be protected by the registration in the Lausøre register, on which the case-speaker was involved. This requires the removal of the requirement that operational accessories be pledged with fixed ownership. Today we see that there are many businessmen who are not allowed to pledge their operating equipment, as they do not have firm ownership to pledge it. Today, if entrepreneurs establish themselves in rented premises and where other businesses operate out, they are prevented from mortgageing production equipment. It has been a demand from business and banking that this change has been implemented. I am pleased that today we can implement this change in the law for the pledge of operating equipment, but I am surprised that the majority believe that the government will cover all the expenses for those who are resetting the business pledge, especially on the basis that this has been a demand from the business community and a possibility they have requested. In addition, the amount of the individual who would benefit from this change was only applicable to one fifth of the current legal fee, i.e. 120 kroner. What I'm most curious about is that the party like the Right and the Advance Party is going against this. Otherwise, they have the principle that all public services are to be paid with what it costs. These parties have also been the foremost spokespersons for example. The Brøn Island Health Register shall be self-financing in the case of such services. Now they break this principle smoothly. This is an offer to the business community, and I am sure that the business owners would not have responded if they had to pay NOK 120. The potential for reversal of the operating pledge would be much more valuable. But the world is full of surprises, and this is one of those I'm registering here in Stortinget. This cannot be a matter of deciding the fall option, but it will reduce the government budget by 5 million next year. kr, such as could have gone to something else that businesses in the districts demand. I will take up the Workers' Party's proposal in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e710	Astrid Marie Nistad has addressed the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 429]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e720	Before Odelstinget goes to voting in case No. 1–4, the President will remind you that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is over. The President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e726	During the debate, Mrs Solberg put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a system of advance commitments for student housing to be established in existing housing/property stock within agreed cost frameworks. The purpose of the scheme must be to enable interconnections to have State aid security when they enter the bidding process and do not risk having to co-finance or finance the building stock for several years before providing a clear signal for the State aid and the restructuring project.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e751	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e790	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e799	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e805	During the debate, Anita Apelthun Säle has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow municipalities and county councils to raise loans to finance the purchase of shares in power companies.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e818	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e832	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Astrid Marie Nistad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, by Astrid Marie Nistad on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, from Toril Haaland Horpestad on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first vote for I in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e855	The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e866	As you have now been rejected, we are going to vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. Reference is made to the proposal:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e976	The proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party is further referred to:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e1017	The proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party is further referred to:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e1157	The proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party is further referred to:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e1203	The proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party is further referred to:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2056	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2065	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. Then the setting II remains. The President will ask whether this proposal is maintained after the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2072	No, it's drawn because it no longer has a function.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2077	It is then confirmed by Finn Kristian Marthinsen that II has been drawn. The vote on file No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2085	During the debate, Astrid Marie Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2282	There is a different proposal from the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 17 December 1982 No. 86 on the legal fee is amended as follows:Article 21a, the new third paragraph, is replaced by the following:For the registration in the Register of Liability of Loan Rights in Operating Applicants referred to in the base book before the entry into force of the Act... amending Law No 8 February 1980. 2 in pledges and in some other laws, one fifth of the legal fee is payable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2544	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-lower-2.ana.ud2151e2553	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
