ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e89	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e94	I propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e99	Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e104	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for new instruments to support research and development in the shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e109	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e119	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that one of the independent representatives be given the floor for up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e130	Minister of Labour and Administration Kosmos' statement on the Nordic Council of Ministers' strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region and in our neighbourhoods is a spring solution for the political efficiency of Nordic cooperation. Not only is it put up to Nordic strategies by the Council of Ministers – it has often been done before – but this time it presents proposals for concrete fixed-term tasks, proposals that we parliamentarians in each Nordic country, and in the Nordic Council, are invited to give our support before further work is started. In relation to the work of the Nordic Council, this will mean greater awareness of priorities in this area, but perhaps most importantly: it could be the basis for coordinated Nordic strategies with concrete decisions and appropriations in the annual budgetary procedures of the parliaments of each Nordic country. The fact that this is done in relation to the strategy ‘Sustainable development — a new course for the Nordic region’ underlines that our environmental challenges cannot be solved alone in each country. The width of the tasks we now need to take better care of is great. All tasks are important. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the need for some areas of action to be raised, for priorities to be set. Let me give you one example: the growth of electricity consumption and the growing dependence on more polluting electricity production in the Nordic region, including in Norway, mean that more appropriate environmental policies in this area will be crucial if we are to be able to meet the requirements set out in the Kyoto agreement. Today, each Nordic country has its own environmental policy. The competitiveness of business is often ahead of environmental measures, especially on the energy side. Decisions relating to electricity production in Norway are also often characterised by local nature protection exposures. The overall environmental challenges are too often reduced in such contexts. As an initially a little old-fashioned worker party politician, it took me a few years to get an overview of the development of competition in the electricity market. We in Norway have had a significant efficiency improvement in existing production and transmission systems, but on the environment side we have to record that with current driving rules for the Nordic electricity market the most environmentally friendly electricity will lose. The reason for this is that current rules do not oblige those who sell electricity into the Nordic market to price the environmental costs of the production price. Some might wish that the market would show ethical environmental awareness — and therefore choose an unnecessarily expensive product. Of course it's not like that. In a market you're looking for the lowest price. It is politicians who are responsible for environmental driving rules. In situations where energy market scarcity arises, imported coal-based electricity primarily produces low market prices to trigger necessary investments — and efficiency — in, for example, Norwegian hydroelectric power generation. Cleaner gas power also loses relative to imports of coal power. The last challenge in this context is Sweden’s new cable against the lignite producing country of Poland, another is Norwegian plans for cables against the coal surplus country of Germany. In this context, the proposal for a Nordic Environment Action Programme in the energy sector for the period 2001-2004 is of great importance. The basis for the concreteities to be adopted was laid at the Nordic Council's conference on environment in Gothenburg in February 1998. On repeated occasions since then, the Nordic Council has adopted recommendations relating, inter alia, to: systems for pricing environmental costs in the production of electricity, specified in quota trading systems as possible. In the Nordic Council Thematic Conference here in Stortinget from 2 to 3. In April, we will be clarifying the agreement of the Nordic politicians, among others. to allow the North and Baltic Sea regions to become an area for testing the Kyoto mechanisms — including the major challenge of testing the basis for a Nordic market for CO2 allowances. Norway is well equipped to meet these challenges resourcefully, but on the tax side, Norwegian electricity producers face a significantly higher tax burden than Nordic competitors. This weakens the economy of Norwegian operators vis-à-vis competitors in the restructuring process. But it's a one-sided national challenge. I have now mentioned only one of 15 areas in total in the proposals for the Nordic Environment Action Programme for the coming years. All 15 areas are each important in their own way. Nevertheless, I believe that it is necessary to make some priorities in order to achieve intermediate targets within a four-year period. In the Socialist Group in the Nordic Council's Subcommittee on Regional Policy, we have set up a process together with social democrats in the Committee on the Environment of the Nordic parliaments. The aim of this is to give some priority to further work. I would like to stress that with this we do not object to the issue of what should be politically most important. It has to be a broad consensus in final decisions, we have to achieve the goal. Our aim is only to clarify the willingness of parliamentarians to govern and interact with the Council of Ministers and the governments of each country in the further work. Here in the Grand Duchy, the challenge will then be to ensure the necessary decisions relating to common objectives, including in the forthcoming budgetary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e149	It is a high ambition to work together to create sustainable development in the Nordic region and its neighbourhoods, but it is important and necessary. In the Nordic region, we have a long tradition of cooperation between parliaments. We also have a discussion in the Nordic region about how we can be better able to work together on concrete issues, and this will also apply in the areas of sustainable development. I think the challenges of creating sustainable development are greatest if we look at the Nordic neighbourhoods. The challenges ahead. The theme «sustainable development» then also has a large dimension, which needs to work through many disciplines, not only through the energy sector and the traditional environmental domains. The previous speaker said a little about the background of the plan now available for 2001–04. It is detailed – it is many concrete proposals. But I will once again highlight the opportunities of the neighbourhoods to participate in this work. I must then bring forward their ability to be participants in a democracy, and also the situation of children in these areas, where environmental issues and sustainable development are in a way considered luxury tasks. I believe that working with sustainable development in these areas requires a great deal of action, information and motivation against children, against young people and against women. What you have to do first and foremost is believe in the future, a belief in a future in which they have the materially good, in which they can afford to make good environmental and resource choices. Sustainable development is a debated concept. One of the things discussed in that term is not least the term ‘growth and resource use’. We live today in a society where we have a thinking around economics that assumes that natural resources are unlimited. We all know that's not the case. It is an important prerequisite for sustainable development to create well-being – to distribute material goods. It is also an important prerequisite for creating sustainable good development that there is a living, authoritative democracy that enables people to participate. I think this is absolutely essential for us to have sustainable development, with more focus on environmental and energy issues and on resource issues, and for creating acceptance for these environmental areas. Democracy and participation are an important prerequisite for sustainable development in our own area, but it is also an important prerequisite for sustainable development in the neighbourhoods. I think it is a huge challenge in the Nordic region to get closer cooperation between parliamentarians, and that the discussion we have today in the Nordic Council on how to design Nordic cooperation between parliamentarians becomes deeper and enters into our own national discussions on these issues. It's incredibly important. It is also incredibly important to create sustainable development in our neighbourhoods that we are in real dialogue with the parliaments and the new, dawning democracies in our neighbourhoods. This is an ambitious task, but it's a very long-term task, and it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e170	In the context of the debate on a new structure for Nordic cooperation, much indicates that one ends up going back to some kind of professional committee. There is certainly the obvious challenge of focusing attention on some areas in order not to become just a kind of Nordic shadow parliament covering all committees, as is otherwise done in national parliaments. It is then important, as the first speaker in this debate, Erik Dalheim, also pointed out, that some areas of concern are being raised in this priority. From the point of view of the Right, environmental and energy issues are also well under way among the issues that should then be raised. It is a good area for 'Nordic benefit', it is an area where the Nordic countries still have political priorities, and it is hopefully also an area where parliamentary cooperation can produce a Nordic identity, that is, the 'fact', which we at least like to see as if the Nordic countries have reached a long way in the field of sustainable development. It's a truth with some modifications, but it's okay to do something about the modifications, and I think it's an area where parliaments can find each other. The fact that economic priorities and different fields of activity in e.g. The energy sector, as previous speakers have pointed out, makes that, for example: imported coal-based electricity gets a lower price than cleaner energy should have done. This is probably one of the toughest areas for the Nordic governments to coordinate their policies and provide a charging policy that promotes the cleanest energy possible. One of the more promising areas in which I think there has been a political maturation is one of the topics to be discussed at the thematic conference here in the United Kingdom from 2 to 3. ==References== The area to which I am referring is the possibility of testing the Kyoto mechanisms between the Nordic countries. Here there has been some kind of political development and maturation, so that now there seems to be an agreement on trying to get it to, among other things. testing the basis for a Nordic market for CO2 allowances. Here, too, the fact that three Nordic countries are members of the EU meets. In this area, the EU has decided on common quotas, but has not made any significant progress in the development of tradable allowances. Nevertheless, this does not prevent Nordic cooperation in this area, and perhaps the Nordic EU countries can also be at the forefront of this development. One of the areas in which I believe Norway should have a particular interest in focusing on cooperation is the development of an effective strategy against marine pollution and on fisheries management. It is important to demonstrate that the state of the sea is such that fish from our areas are healthy and safe food. Good environmental policy and good industrial policy go hand in hand here, at least in most areas. It is important that this work is also supported by the Nordic countries and, hopefully, also gradually receive broad support from EU teams. In this context — but it also has a wider perspective — it is important to focus on the problems associated with the storage of nuclear waste in our neighbourhoods, as well as the use of nuclear energy in our neighbourhoods. But especially the storage of nuclear waste in Russia represents a huge environmental threat to the entire Nordic region. The disaster that may occur if such waste is carried, for example: Along our coast and shipping accidents should occur, it is hardly possible to grasp today. It will put the areas back, create an international focus on us that is very, very unfortunate, and, of course – as the most important thing – could be a disaster for life in the sea. It also focuses on the question of whether it is possible to raise an EU interest for an effort in these areas. Cooperation and Nordic efforts – together or separately in the Nordic countries – have slowed down in Russia. The system in Russia works slowly. Still, parts of the military apparatus are partly stronger than the civil apparatus, and there are quite significant problems to be faced. There is probably also a significant need for European political support here. But developing an interaction between this and effective shipping monitoring systems along the Norwegian coast is one of the most important environmental tasks we are facing. We've only seen the flicks of this problem through the spills that have been, and the oil pollution that has followed it. We were lucky these times -- we're not necessarily as lucky next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e189	It is commendable that the Nordic Council of Ministers, on behalf of the Nordic Prime Ministers, has presented a strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region. This is positive, primarily for the environment in the Nordic region. However, the strategy, «Sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region», is also important for the Nordic Council, which has struggled to be visible in the political debate. But here is also the danger of an anti-climate in Nordic cooperation. The strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region outlined by the Minister for Cooperation is an ambitious strategy. ‘A change in course is urgent,’ said Kosmo, pointing out, among other things. the following challenges: increased emissions of greenhouse gases local pollution and noise increased urbanisation loss of biodiversity and natural and cultural values the large number of food additives The presentation was useful, for example: because the Council of State itself gave the concept of «sustainable development» a content that illustrates the diversity and breadth of a Nordic strategy for such development. So we have the words of the Minister of Cooperation that a change of course is required. And that's exactly where the danger of a setback in Nordic cooperation also lies. Because if the ambitious objectives and the announced change in course are not followed up in practical action, confidence in politicians and Nordic cooperation will be weakened. Therefore, we must expect that the change in course will become visible both at national level and when the respective Councils of Ministers will design common Nordic actions. The sustainable development strategy and the announcement of a change of course in key policy areas must be a particularly important challenge for the Government. Indeed, the government cannot, with its credibility in mind, announce a price change in climate policy if, at the same time, gas-fired power stations that represent a dramatic increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Nor can the government claim that increased urbanisation and centralisation are countering sustainable development if it simultaneously weakens the instruments to mitigate centralisation. And the Government also has problems with its credibility when it announces a change of course in food safety and food additives restrictions, shortly after the same government has approved EU food make-up directives, which introduce new additives. In other words, the actions may overshadow the good intentions. The statement mentions, in several contexts, environmental, food safety and welfare considerations. I noticed that the Council of State used the term ‘conversion towards a sustainable Nordic region’. When I know what the Minister of Cooperation puts in terms of ‘conversion’ and ‘conversion’, I become somewhat uncertain about what the Council of State means. I'll come back to that. The Sustainable Nordic Strategy also includes the action programmes for Nordic cooperation in the primary industries. There is reason to believe that this part of the strategy will now call for great interest. It is about structure, urbanisation and regional development, and it is about food security — elements that we can redefine in the presentation. In the cold water of cows and other animal epidemics, one has, among other things: an interesting debate on the EU's future agricultural policy was held in Germany. Industrialised agriculture and the one-sided focus on efficiency, profitability pressures and food prices are called into question. I would like to quote from an editorial in the evening post on 24 February: ‘Swine fever, BSE, scrapie, foot-and-mouth disease, feed scandals and hormonal scandals, together this constitutes a picture of an agricultural industry and an agricultural industry on wild roads.’ And then to this with conversion: with interest I have gone back to the post of the Kosmo Council of State in connection with the agricultural settlement last spring. Here the Council of State stated that the restructuring of agriculture is too slow! I quote: ‘I understand that this is difficult. But it's going to be even harder in the years to come, because the need just gets bigger and bigger. We cannot postpone these structural changes." The need for structural changes is only increasing and increasing, we have to believe the Council of State. It might be interesting to hear whether, in the light of the experience gained in the EU countries now reaping, Kosmo continues to believe the same thing as he stated in the Stortinget on 15 June last year, namely that the conversion of agricultural policy in a direction that involves fewer and larger units is moving too slowly. Is e.g. a forced restructuring of agriculture as part of the strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e231	It is very good in the strategy put forward by the Council of Ministers on environmental cooperation in the Nordic region. And the Nordic region is a good area for cooperation on these issues. The question then is to what extent this is imposed as obligations on nations, and whether the national governments in the Nordic countries are actually doing something, or whether, once again, it is mainly nice words. And if there's something the Nordic Council is full of, that's nice words. The fact that Norway now has the Nordic co-operation presidency from 2002 imposes a very special responsibility on us to follow up the objectives of the strategy. And the thematic meeting to be held here in Oslo on 2 and 3 April can be an important forum to present some of these actions. Let me just mention some areas where it's important to also follow up this Nordic strategy nationally. The report states that the Nordic countries should work towards rapid ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Norway has so far not ratified the Protocol, and its background is, among other things, the breach in The Hague and the uncertainty associated with the various mechanisms for the release of commitments contained in the Kyoto Agreement. But do these objectives now set by the Nordic governments mean that they intend to ratify the Protocol also in Norway, regardless of whether the international agreement is put in place? Given that George Bush has just moved into the US presidential chair, there is every reason to fear that the Kyoto ratification will be postponed for many years, and even that it will not come into force at all. In the energy sector, it is pointed out that Nordic countries are to work for a green electricity market, and there is music in SV’s ears. This is something we want to welcome. But there is one thing that is important in such a context, and there are the criteria for such a green electricity market. The Norwegian government, for example, is afraid of the fact that, in view of the last few years of the Norwegian fallout in gas power plants, the Norwegian government has been able to do so. will define gas power as such green electricity. In this case, SV believes that very much of the purpose of this green electricity strategy will fall away. With regard to food security, there is a lot of positive evidence, not least the negative side of globalised world trade through the WTO. Furthermore, it is positive that genetically modified food should only be accepted if it is safe. In this respect, it is important to bear in mind that the majority of the processing of consumer notifications pointed out that a provisional ban on genetically modified food should be assessed by the Government in order to ensure that consumers are protected from the possible consequences of such food. Furthermore, it is quite thoughtful that the food additive strategy states that ‘food additives pose significant health problems’. Nevertheless, the EU Food Mining Directive – as also pointed out by Johan J. Jakobsen – was adopted in the Storting without as much as a single concern by the Government. There are such things that the Nordic strategy can be reduced to fine words with little basis in the real world. A positive aspect of the strategy is that it focuses on the importance of reflecting the real environmental cost of the product in the price of the product. There is some reason why SV here in Stortinget is concerned with green taxes, and that we should praise the environmentally harmful behaviour and products we have in another way. What is then interesting to note is that the Storting will deal later today with a case where also green taxes are mentioned, where only the Socialist Left and Left are of the opinion that this should be included in the future tax reform in Norway, related to business taxation. If you really want to change the direction of the Environment Strategy to the Nordic Council of Ministers, you have to take the national steps first, and together with Nordic co-operation countries, instead of rejecting these types of proposals. With regard to the transport sector, which is one of the most important sources of pollution in the Nordic region, it is important to note that we have just dealt with a transport plan for the period up to 2011 here in the United Kingdom, and a number of proposals were made on how to ensure nationally a less polluting transport sector. Let me just mention some of these: fuel types, where methanol was proposed, to facilitate the use of cleaning technology for diesel vehicles, the establishment of bicycle road networks in agglomerations and cities and the conversion of the charging system, making it cheaper to own a car but more expensive to use. In addition, proposals were made for further allocation of public transport. None of these proposals received support in Stortinget, and the government party was among those who were active in voting them down. And as long as you're not able to house your own environmental policy nationally, I'm not particularly optimistic about this Nordic strategy. But at the same time, it is positive that the Nordic region is a good priority area to launch an offensive environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e248	The North offers two possibilities, one opportunity for despair, because you think words are produced and not action, but it also gives you an opportunity for action. I choose to stick to the last option, because that's what makes sense. If it is to make sense to operate with a green energy market in the Nordic region, it must be an energy market that respects all international agreements, and where one is also trying to be ahead of it. This applies to Kyoto, on which the representative, Mr Djupedal, was now involved, but it will also have to apply, for example. how Norway is able to sort out its own position on gas power plants. It would be profoundly ironic if we were to implement a technology that does not take into account the real price of pollution, which does not take into account the ratio of CO2 emissions. Then we'll be able to subvert such a whole Nordic thought. However, if we are willing to be optimists in the sense that we believe that technology – which is possible – will allow us to deposit CO2, of course, the gas power plants will be part of such a strategy. Now there is nothing new in what I have now said. This was a battle line through large parts of last year here in the hall, and at least it's absolutely necessary to remember it if it's to have any effect in a Nordic context. I would like to comment on two other points. Firstly, what many have called the northern dimension, and which is particularly about everything that goes against the Barents Sea, about the fight and control of nuclear waste, nuclear energy, from safety on nuclear power stations to controlling waste from such power plants. I don't think it's possible to stress enough the importance of this. This applies in a Nordic context to what we may have been concerned about in Norway in the case of the Poljarnizori power plant in Kola. But of course this also applies in the Nordic context to life-threatening power plants in the Baltic Sea, where all Nordic countries must be unitedly concerned that our Russian neighbour acts in such a way that what happens is as secure as possible, and that, as far as possible, across all kinds of bureaucratic and strange obstacles that are gradually emerging, we are practical in helping to get it as secure as possible. I think this is an area where Nordic countries can deliver something in common and have a deep and heavy common interest in delivering. Another area where the Nordic countries are about to deliver is the initiative that I have registered by Nordic Environment Ministers on the attempt to combat nuclear waste as a commodity for the Russian Federation, and to avoid this commodity being transported either through the Baltic Sea or off the Norwegian coast to Kola or north of Russia to Japan. Combating this with all the political and legal means, including the means of looking at how far we are going to assert our sovereignty over the territorial sea, is a matter of interest to the Nordic countries. This is also a field where we can involve what is called West-Nordic in many ways. There is no doubt that the relationship here will include the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland — at all — including how these vital waters are not made subject to the possibility of nuclear pollution. In my day, I was involved in something called the Dounreay campaign. It's almost 15 years ago. We know, of course, how the rumors of possible nuclear pollution from the United Kingdom were totally destructive to some of our most important exports on the fishing side. We know how it was then possible to bring together the Nordic countries, through the Nordic Council and in different contexts, to protest against this. It has probably given some sort of success in the sense that the most far-reaching plans were jagged. I think the area that has now been taken up to combat, nuclear waste, is at least as important, because at worst it can be quite heavy national interests that make this a matter for Russia. It's vital for us to be together with others and fight this. In this context, I would also like to mention that it should be in the Nordic common interest to combat emissions of, among others. technology from Sellafield and address this on the widest possible basis in relation to the UK authorities. There is no doubt that, today, residues of these emissions along the Norwegian coast, and further emissions, have been told me from sources in the environment movement, can, if this is not controlled, lead to the fact that it will not be possible to eat crabs and lobsters from the waters along the southern coast — and then you will quickly not just talk about Norway. Consistent action against nuclear waste, whether it be our neighbour in the East, Russia, or the United Kingdom and France, must be an important task. It has to be a Nordic common cause. Then the Nordics actually contribute to keeping the general public clean, and the garbage we're talking about here is radioactive trash. It's the most dangerous of all that exists. But I think these are the areas where we can really find common interests and be able to act together. Finding such real-world common areas I think is very important to maintain initiatives and pursue what can still be Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e263	The statement by the Kosmos Council of State on the Nordic Council of Ministers' strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region was good. It was thorough, but also thought - provoking. It illustrates that it's a piece left until we have a fully sustainable development in the Nordic region. However, the statement shows that there are many positive measures on the move. The strategy of the Nordic Council of Ministers is concrete. It's detailed, which is very good. Through this strategy, the Nordic region has been given a politically binding document covering many sectors, with extensive commitments for the Nordic countries in Nordic cooperation. Now all the forces must be put in place to realize the strategy. This is a responsibility that is shared by many, both public authorities, businesses and not least by all citizens of the Nordic region. We in the Nordic region must reverse both production and consumption in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way. All global environmental problems are essentially the sum of local actions. The strange thing we've been experiencing lately, both here in Norway and in other countries, shows that urgent action is needed to curb climate change and prevent environmental damage. The Ministerial Declaration of November 1998 sets eleven objectives for sustainable development in the Nordic region. These objectives are complex and comprehensive. The objectives will never be achieved once and for all. It must be continuously worked on, for example: conservation of biodiversity reduction of pollution and emissions sustainable management and use of renewable and non-renewable natural resources Global environmental problems are also the sum of national actions. That's why we have to sweep at our own door. But more countries have to sweep together if we're going to get further in this area. Therefore, Nordic cooperation and the Council of Ministers’ strategy «Sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region» are important and correct. We need to see the Nordic strategy in relation to the development of similar strategies in the EU, where three of the Nordic countries can be drivers. The EU is now developing a sustainable development strategy that will be the EU contribution to the 2002 Rio+10 World Summit in South Africa. The problem for Norway is that we are outside the EU, and thus it is difficult to intervene in the formulation of EU environmental policy. It is also the case that EU legislation in some environmental areas is pushing Norwegian standards in a positive direction, for example in relation to the quality of drinking water and car exhaust gases. An important area of Nordic cooperation is energy and power supply. In a year of average rainfall, Norway is totally dependent on imports of force. That is why it is important that we have good systems for the exchange of power with other Nordic and European countries. At the same time, it is a very big challenge in the future to be able to address power needs in ways other than by importing highly polluting coal and nuclear power from other countries. Let me then highlight some of the actions mentioned in this strategy: Within the energy and climate areas, it is proposed to develop the Baltic Sea region as a pilot area for the so-called Kyoto mechanisms. An investment fund for climate-related projects under the Nordic environmental finance company NEFCO can support this work. This is important. Local Agenda 21 needs to be further developed and strengthened, including: through the establishment of a common Nordic network for exchange of experience. This is also good. Finally, I must also highlight the positive role played by strengthening the Nordic Eco-label ‘Swan’, which is a good example of practical environmental work. The ‘Swan’ helps raise environmental awareness among Nordic consumers and producers. I look forward to continuing this debate during the Nordic Council's 'Sustainable Nordic' thematic meeting on 2 and 3 April. Here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e303	The sustainable development strategy – a new course for the Nordic region – provides a solid basis for developing the Nordic region and neighbourhoods in a sustainable direction over the next 20 years. Follow-up to the strategy means substantial commitments for the Nordic countries, both nationally and in Nordic cooperation, and will be an important task under our Presidency of the Nordic Government Cooperation in 2002. The strategy must also be seen in relation to the development of similar strategies in the EU and the OECD, where the Nordic region can be a driver and thereby promote increased and committed international cooperation on sustainable development. Furthermore, the strategy could constitute a common Nordic contribution to the 10th anniversary of the Rio Conference in 2002, Rio+10. A key element of the strategy is the integration of environmental considerations into sectors, which means that individual sectors assume responsibility for meeting environmental objectives and international environmental obligations. Cross-sectoral cooperation must be monitored at both national and Nordic level. Nordic cooperation covers many sectors and requires the individual Council of Ministers to follow up the strategy for its responsibilities. Nordic environmental cooperation is based on the principle of Nordic benefit and is based on the objective of the highest level of ambition, which means that following the Nordic country with the highest level of ambition, cooperation can be used as a lever both nationally and internationally. A new Nordic Environment Action Programme for the period 2001-2004 was adopted by the Nordic Environment Ministers in November 2000. This applies from 1 January of this year, subject to the treatment of the Nordic Council. The programme provides guidelines for Nordic environmental cooperation for the next four years and provides the basis for environmental sector cooperation with the Nordic Council and the main sectors relevant to environmental development. The action programme addresses important issues, such as environmental problems in the Nordic neighbourhoods and the Arctic, EU environmental cooperation and coordination of Nordic positions in international processes. For Norway, efforts to combat marine pollution and cooperation on cleaner energy and climate action are particularly important. It is positive that the action programme focuses on following up the Nordic Action Plan on the protection of the natural and cultural environment in the Arctic. The Environment Action Programme will be an important tool to follow up the Sustainable Development Strategy, precisely because it focuses on the cross-sectoral perspective and forms of cooperation. A concrete example of this is the field of environment and health, which has emerged as a new theme in Nordic environmental cooperation. I see this as a very important topic, also in relation to the challenges that the representative Randi Karlstrøm addressed in his speech, that the impact should be felt across the Nordic neighbourhood. The primary responsibility for the follow-up to the strategy will lie in individual countries and autonomous areas. Therefore, national policies must ensure that all sectors concerned take responsibility for the follow-up in their own area. This will require cross-sectoral cooperation, including at national level. At home, over several years, we have tried to integrate sustainability into policy processes such as budgetary and planning processes. In the Norwegian approach to sustainable development in the field of the environment, it has been important to set national targets to meet Norway’s international commitments in the field of the environment. The Government's policy on environmental protection and the state of the state of the state of the state have provided the Government with broad support for national objectives and the broad lines of environmental protection policy. Can not open message environmental policy must become part of all policy areas, that international environmental cooperation must be strengthened and strengthened, that better localisation of environmental protection policy must be opened up in order to create greater legitimacy for continued cooperation with industry with a view to triggering even more of the potential for environmental action in this area; In integrating environmental protection policy into other sectoral policies, sectoral environmental action plans have become important tools. The basis for the work on such plans is given in St.meld. No 58 for 1996-1997. The sectoral environmental action plans are based on the principle of target management and cost-effectiveness across sectors. The plans describe the environmental impact of the sectors and the Government's plans for environmental action in the sector concerned. In this way, the environmental action plans are an important part of the overall environmental protection policy and it is essential that these environmental action plans are followed up as an integral part of the regular budgetary and management systems of the departments' administrations. Over the last three years, eight departments have presented their sectoral environmental action plans, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Fisheries, in connection with the State budgets for 1999 and 2000, and, in connection with the 2001 State budget, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs presented their environmental action plans. Next year, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and Police will present their proposals for environmental action plans in relation to the State budget. This shows that we have made good progress in Norway in integrating environmental considerations into the current activities of the sectors, which is crucial to achieving sustainable development. At the same time, several countries are currently working on national sustainable development strategies. These will be presented at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002. For its part, the government will take on board the Nordic sustainability strategy at national level in the World Summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e350	People outside the political environment often feel that Nordic cooperation becomes words, words, but we who are in it know that we are limited by working according to the consensus principle. I think it's an important task to bring forward this work and the importance of focusing on a good information strategy for the population. As far as the Swan brand is concerned, you can say that you can enjoy your winnings. But after all, it's not a label for recycled paper, it's a mark that says that the paper lacks chlorine. So we can go a few steps, but there are actually many steps left. I think the really interesting environmental debate is about the relationship between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance and the discussion between growth and our consumption and the resources we have. I don't think we're going to get a good handle on environmental resource thinking in our time until the way we think about growth in the Ministry of Finance changes. I'd like to get some points of view on it. I would also like to have a small assessment of what the Council of State thinks about the emphasis on actions in the neighbourhood versus actions in Nordic cooperation. I think that efforts in the neighbourhood will have to be made with greater patience, but in the long term it will have a much, much greater impact on the environment than measures in our rich part. And we can do as far as this cooperation is concerned, we can do quite well, but I would like a small assessment of the efforts we have made, or the ambitions we have for the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e361	All countries, including the Nordic countries, face major environmental challenges in themselves, although many of the Nordic countries, particularly the Baltic countries, face even greater challenges than we face in terms of economic development, democratic development and, to a large extent, environmental problems. The main challenges for the Nordic countries and all countries are the climate challenges, and there we have a great responsibility to address measures that work to reduce climate change. But I agree that action in the surrounding regions of the Nordic region, and in particular what we can do together as the Nordic region towards the Baltic region, is very important and can produce very visible results. In the environmental field, we have seen it in several of the projects related to cleaner production. Although investment and economic activity in these countries have been difficult to obtain, measures in the field of the environment, and especially in business, have benefited greatly from training staff and cleaner production measures. I believe that the cooperation we are about to engage in on energy and common climate projects can be a new example of important actions in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e366	When I heard the Minister for the Environment, I was tempted to quote a philosopher who has been assigned about the following: I hear what you are saying, but your actions overshadow the beautiful words. The Minister for the Environment stressed that the environment and health have now become an important element of the structural plan. In the presentation on which today’s debate is based, the Government has clearly expressed as one of the main challenges the large number of food additives, which pose significant health and environmental problems. When talking about course change, I have to remind you that it is quite a short time since the Government accepted and accepted the EU food make-up directives. Was that a change in course? Most people would say yes, because it involves a change of course that goes in the opposite direction of the beautiful words we find in the statement. This is history, but there are new things ahead of us. I want to challenge the Minister for the Environment on the matter where Norway may be confronted with the possibility of either using veto or accepting it in the context of the EU, the so-called Patents Directive. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that the only thing that can do for Norway to say no to this directive is that the Netherlands is losing the case in the court. I want to challenge the Minister for the Environment and ask very concretely, having regard to her strong emphasis on environment and health: does the Minister for the Environment believe that a Norwegian acceptance of the so-called Patents Directive, patents on life, will be within the framework of the sustainable development strategy that we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e375	In general, I believe that the fact that we still come back to matters decided by the majority in the Grand Duchy can easily become a sleep cushion in relation to the major challenges we face in the area of health and the environment. It also concerns the issue of food safety, which will be an important and priority area in the future. Labelling of genetically modified products is one such area which is far more relevant than EU directives and which is a global work. Similarly, I believe that the issue of patents on biotechnological inventions is also a matter that goes far beyond the EU directive in this area. The government will come back to Stortinget with a position related to the directive, but here we are talking about a global challenge, the question of how developing countries can be given the opportunity to exploit their own biotechnological inventions – relating to the relationship to biodiversity. This is a discussion that goes far beyond the EU Directive, and that is the basis for the Government’s work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e380	Some of the most discouraging last year was the collapse of the Hague negotiations, which meant that the industrialised world did not agree on how to follow up the Kyoto agreement. The picture was that the self-interest of the various countries was at the forefront — also for Norway. Norway, together with, among others The U.S. and Japan, made sure that there wasn't an agreement, even if it was verbally said that you wanted an agreement. This means that most of the climate-related area still flows in terms of how to reach commitments for individual Member States to actually reduce climate emissions, which is the most significant global environmental problem facing the world. So, from Norway, we are further away from achieving the targets set in the Kyoto agreement, even as modest as they actually are, because most people now agree that the targets set in Kyoto are just a first step. If we are to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions, we need to go even further. By January at the latest, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published one of three reports on the future prospects of the new century, and they are far more gloomy and dramatic than we have seen so far. That means that we'll see stronger storms and greater climate change, we'll see more unrest related to weather and climate than we've been used to so far, even though in recent years it's also been more of that kind of natural disaster than in previous years. We're also going to get a faster warming of the globe than what's supposed to be so far. My challenge to the Council of State is that so far this government has done nothing about climate issues – nothing at all. On the contrary, in many important areas it has gone in a completely different direction in terms of transport, gas power stations and whatever else. My question is: Will Norway ratify the Kyoto Agreement completely independently of what other countries are doing, and will we actually take the necessary steps to stabilise Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e389	I share with the representative, Djupedal, the assessment of the challenges of climate problems and the importance of even clearer what research is now telling us about the major problems. However, I distance myself from the description of the role of Norway in achieving a binding international agreement to reduce climate change emissions. In these negotiations, Norway has pursued an autonomous and very active policy of reaching an agreement, and we have been prepared to discuss any draft negotiations. We have not been in line with countries like the United States and Japan in terms of policy, as I explained here in the Great Britain following the Hague negotiations. It will also be a priority task for the Government beyond spring to work to reach such an agreement. We're doing this now, for example. in many bilateral contacts with governments of different countries. That's what we're going to do. We now think it is most important to reach an agreement while at the same time working on national follow-up on how Norway can achieve the Kyoto targets, and we will come back to the question of ratification in line with the other country will do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e396	The reality is, unfortunately, that for many countries, including Norway, it is self-interest that is at the forefront when talking about climate issues. The burden of taking own action nationally leads to a burden on businesses, consumers, drivers and what else, and therefore goes back instead of taking the lead in active policies that can actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We can see that in Norway. At all important intersections over the last year, the Stortinget has chosen the wrong course, related to green taxation, to transport plan, to gas power stations and to other important issues in the environmental field. What these industrialized countries — including Norway — are trying to do as much as possible is to place the burden elsewhere than in their own country, and here all the different mechanisms contained in the Kyoto agreement come in, namely, to allow other countries to put pressure on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in different ways. The role of Norway must be quite different. Norway's role must be to take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to demonstrate that it is actually possible in an industrialised country to maintain a settlement and a business life while taking the environmental measures necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I am pleased that the Council of State says that Norway has an active attitude and that Norway wants to contribute positively to this process. Unfortunately, however, the reality is that in The Hague Norway played no progressive role at all, and that together with Japan, the United States and others, we contributed – unfortunately – to the torpedo of this agreement. My challenge to the Council of State is: one thing is that you want to go on in bilateral talks with other nations, that's positive. It is positive that Norway says we want to ratify the Kyoto Agreement. But at the same time, what is the material approach that we are seeing in Norway to take, which shows direction, and which actually reduces emissions within one sector? So far we have had emissions increases in all sectors. This plan, which we are really discussing today from the Nordic Council, is a sectoral plan for many different, important sectors of Nordic society, but in all these areas, unfortunately, greenhouse gas emissions are going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e403	The depth pedal's analysis is not going to be more accurate as it is repeated several times. While there is no contradiction between national climate action and international climate action, it is quite essential that countries now agree on binding measures at international level, for the very simple reason that Norwegian emissions mean a very small proportion of total climate emissions. And if we really want to do something about the major challenges that Djupedal mentions in terms of climate change, temperature rises and storms that will hit the worst in the developing world, we actually need to get very large countries involved in measures that will also reduce their emissions. Therefore, the instruments to go between countries, such as quota trade, as common implementing measures, such as the green development mechanism in which we can implement climate action reductions in developing countries, are so crucial in this work. And it does not conflict with the work we have a responsibility to follow up from the Norwegian side, and that Stortinget will have ample opportunity to go into in the light of the measures that the Government will come back to later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e408	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e411	Firstly, I would like to say that I think it is exciting and challenging to be allowed to participate in Nordic cooperation on issues of such importance to the people of the Nordic countries, but also where, overall, the Nordic countries will be able to influence policy-making both in Europe and in the rest of the world. This is why the initiative to develop the document on sustainable development in the Nordic region and the initiatives taken to follow it up, both through the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers, is very important. If it can create an engagement and a debate on Nordic issues, we have a platform that allows us to further develop Nordic cooperation in this area and at the same time gain experience and actually get better in some other areas in the future. I would like to comment on a few of the points that have been raised in this debate, which are particularly challenging and important. First, as both the representative Foss and the representative Dørum raised, the issue of pollution and environmental management of nuclear waste in our neighbourhoods. The representative Foss is quite right when he says that any marine pollution that occurs as a result of an accident will actually have large dimensions in addition to being polluting, because it creates a false impression of our products in Europe, in particular of the industry operating on the basis of marine resources. Besides, the fear is real that the Barents Sea, where we have one of the world's most important food resources, will be destroyed as a consequence of human pollution. That's why this is a topic that in many ways really puts Nordic work in the spotlight, because here we can do something ourselves in Norway. We can ensure that we get ship leaders who make sure that we do not risk a possible accident leading to national disasters near our coast, while at the same time preventing accidents by monitoring and systematic monitoring. Next to the national level, it is quite clear that the huge challenge of preventing North-West Russia from becoming a waste of nuclear waste is a task that Norway is unable to solve alone, where we must have both a Nordic, a European and a transatlantic dimension to this work. Here, the community and the work we can do in the Nordic region to get the EU to take responsibility for this issue will be very important. Only a recognition that the waste producing country has a responsibility to ensure that the waste is properly managed will be a very important dimension in our efforts to address this challenge in our neighbourhoods. We can't do this alone, we have to do this in a community, and then the community we have in the Nordic region is an important and good platform to move on. Then I agree with the representative Jakobsen that things are related – without doubt. At the risk of entanglement in a national agricultural policy debate, which I do not seem to belong in this debate on sustainable development in the Nordic region, I would say that it symbolizes in many ways that in terms of food security, in terms of agriculture, in terms of the restructuring of agriculture, the sustainable dimension is also important. But I have to say that I have never been a member of the policy of agricultural cooperation organisations for meat and milk for the centralisation of the treatment of products. Much of the restructuring work that we are going to do in agriculture has to be done precisely because we have sustainable farming in the districts that can produce goods that we can sell both nationally and internationally at competitive prices. It doesn't have to be in contrast to the ambitions we have about sustainable development in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e426	It surprises me that the Minister of Cooperation now believes that what has to do with primary industries and the management of the resources associated with them is not part of a debate on sustainable development in the Nordic region. If you go back to the documents, it is clear that this is most clearly part of the debate on a sustainable Nordic region. However, I would challenge the Council of State on what he himself has said, almost to test whether the debate you now have about pressure on resources, on the environment, on profitability and on prices – a debate that is now taking place in a great many environments here in the country – has at all made some impression on the Council of State. Because as late as last June, he thought that the trend towards ever larger and fewer units, more industrialized agriculture, was not only acceptable, but that this was going too late. And then I asked the minister if he still believes what he meant on June 15th in Stortinget, when he said that there was a need for a faster pace in these structural changes. I also refer to Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who, in a debate on television yesterday, stated that the structure we have in Norwegian agriculture, small-scale agriculture which he mentioned is, in fact, a strength when we are going to intensify the fight against animal diseases and the environmental problems that follow in its wake. My question, which I also traveled in my first post, is: Does the Council of State mean the same thing today as he did a year ago? In that case, it'll be quite eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e435	In fact, I believe that if Norwegian agriculture continues to be an important part of Norwegian business, an important part of the whole country's policies, an important part of the active employment policy in the districts, then Norwegian agriculture must also make structural changes. However, that does not mean that I am a member of gigantic mergers of use in Norway and a complete industrialisation of agricultural production. On the contrary, I believe that through restructuring and through closer cooperation, we have the potential to create strong, effective and effective cost-effective cooperation projects in the districts that can produce marketable products, where we ensure food security, where we meet the needs of environmentally sound production and good products and have the opportunity to really compete not only in the Norwegian or Nordic markets. But if we don't do this restructuring, I'm afraid we're being pressured into a situation where, for competition reasons, we're being driven off the track. I do not want that, and neither does the representative Jakobsen, but perhaps we have different strategies for how to achieve this. In fact, I believe that this is not contrary to what the Minister of Agriculture says, nor to what is shown by the statement and the report on sustainable development in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e440	The debate on Nordic cooperation is important, perhaps it is more important than the plan. And it's a huge task to get that debate out of this house, out of the Parliament building. But it is incredibly important that Nordic cooperation has a basis in the national parliaments. A debate on Nordic cooperation on a new course for sustainable development needs to be understood in the light of what we do in this room the other days, in the other cases. Otherwise Nordic cooperation will be a kind of cooperation. Also in the Nordic region, we have a mismatch between economics and ecology. We know that we are part of the rich world that uses 80 pst. of the world's resources, and we're causing 2/3, if not more, of the pollution we're struggling with internationally, which is the cause of the climate problems. And we're part of the rich countries that don't want to do anything about it. This is part of the discussion, our own management of agriculture is part of the debate on Nordic cooperation. I think it's a huge task for Norway to get the northern dimension as far north as possible. I have many times seen in Nordic cooperation that it does not go further than to the Baltic countries. The conditions in North-West Russia and the challenges facing Europe are, in fact, Europe's biggest environmental challenge, because we do not see a solution in the short term either. Getting a broad international cooperation here is important, and also getting the northern dimension northwards. I would like to ask, is it important to bring about sustainable development in the Nordic countries that we also have a good future in North-West Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e449	Yes, it is. Perhaps it is one of our greatest common tasks in the Nordic region to provide both support, pressure and support for the further development of the movement of democracy and also of the environment, not only in North-West Russia, but throughout Russia, in order to lay the foundation necessary to achieve the necessary clean-up work and future environmental efforts in this area as well. We can be so dismayed by all the bureaucratic rules and all the resistance we face when we try to solve some questions that it is so important to get a solution. But we can't just sit down and despair. We have to try to get further pressure and further cooperation to solve this. There, the Nordic region has a greater chance of reaching through both to make the EU focus on these areas and to make Russia itself focus on the enormous challenges they face in North-West Russia. I believe that a combination of continued Norwegian involvement – both at the individual level, at the municipal level, at the county level and at the national level – in order to achieve good cooperation structures has a lot to do. But it'll have even more of a mind if we at the same time manage to get an increased Nordic involvement in this. However, not only the land areas of North-West Russia, but also the whole Barents region and the sea areas. As I said instead, it's about the world's food resource no. 1, and if we don't jointly manage it and take care of it properly, we've really played out some historical chances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e458	Several have not asked for the word for a line. So the debate is on case No. 1 a.m. [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e474	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e483	I'm going to be short, I'm not going to use my five minutes. St.meld. No 18 for 2000-2001, which we are now dealing with, is about the sale of properties and future state investments in Pilestredet Park. The premises for this are mentioned in St.prp. No 87 for 1991-92 New Rikshospital, Construction and Operation, and in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Labour and Administration for the years 1992-1999. The area released after the Rikshospitalet moved to Gaustad is approx. 70 pieces. The regulation plan for the area, adopted by the Oslo City Council in 1997, and finally confirmed by the county council in 1998, covers approximately the following areas: 60 pst. housing, approx. 20 pst. public purposes, such as: school, and approx. 20 pst. office/business activities. It is assumed that the Pilestredet Park has an expansion potential of approx. 900 dwellings. In my opinion, it is very positive that the government's proposal opens up the construction of 150 student homes on plots in Pilestredet Park. The Committee has made it clear in its observations that student accommodation should be given high priority. However, I choose to underline this point in my post, because it is an important contribution to meeting the lack of student housing in the capital. We know that the prices are sky high because of the lack of housing for students. Some students pay up to NOK 4000-5000 for a room. It is gratifying to note in the notice that the public, namely the State and the Municipality of Oslo, are leading the way as a good example in the development of Pilestredet Park, as they focus on safeguarding urban ecological principles within an acceptable economic framework. With these words, I would recommend the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e498	In connection with the transfer of the Rikshospitale to Gaustad, the Pilestret 32 in Oslo has been released for other use. This is a large area of 70 goals and therefore very attractive for many functions. The value is then, of course, depending on what the control plan looks like. The Progress Party notes that Pilestredet Park is within a regulatory plan of 19 November 1997, which has already been adopted by the municipality and endorsed by the county council. This can be seen later as a little lucky plan for the area. We want a significantly higher use of the area – the double number of dwellings and more trade and service. This is solved by increasing the number of dwellings, building heights, parking facilities, etc. We believe that the attractiveness of the area in this way could be considerably increased. This implies clear advantages for the seller, the state, which could get a higher price for the property. This, in turn, is an advantage for those who are to develop the area in which profitability is improved by increasing land use. Last but not least, it is an advantage for the future residents, as their access to parking and shopping facilities and access to services, such as serving, etc., are extended. With the current regulation, the area could easily develop into a so-called ‘soveby’. The nearest shopping mall is Oslo City – approx. 2 km away – and it goes without saying that if the area is not able to offer its inhabitants enough services, the area will easily become popular after 1 p.m. 16, and in particular when the service offered is located only within the areas of housing, schools and offices. As a result, the Progress Party would have had a new regulatory treatment of the whole area. This could mean that the residential areas A2, B, C, E1, E2, F1, F2, H and I are increased to approx. The double. Fields B and C should be re-regulated from dwellings to dwellings/businesses/serving and parking. In this way, we would still get a new, exciting and pulsating part of the city where people could have activities large parts of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e507	The reason why I take the floor is that the setting also refers to housing for young people and disadvantaged people and students. The latter was also the case rapporteur. It was said that the lack of housing for young and disadvantaged people means that the State, together with the Municipality of Oslo, will assess the use of conditions for the sale of land and properties to increase access to dwellings for these groups, and that is important enough. SV has been concerned with housing for young and disadvantaged people — that they are reasonable enough to allow more people to afford a dwelling. We've dealt with this many times. We have also pointed out that reasonable rental homes are one of several measures to bring the poor out of poverty, and there is also a current issue when we talk about measures to bring the poor children out of poverty. Poor children, as we have said many times, have poor parents. Only 4 pst. of Norwegian dwellings are social rental dwellings. For SV, it's a goal of 10 pst. of the stock of dwellings shall be cheap rental dwellings. We have repeatedly pointed out that the State needs to take greater responsibility for building more reasonable rental homes for young and disadvantaged people. There is a lack of land for such projects. Now we see that both the state and the municipality sell their land at market prices, and then it's hard to get cheap enough projects. Then the costs are so high that the rental price is in any case too high for people with poor advice. Therefore, we believe that Pilestredet Park must be part of a joint housing policy and that state-owned land for rentals must be ensured by making land available free of charge or very reasonable. The case rapporteur was at the student residences. A report from, among others: NIBR shows that the lack of well-organised housing for people with disabilities is an important obstacle to education for people with disabilities. Education is an important measure to make people with disabilities equal to those in society. Representative Rolf Rikvam, our member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, has asked the Minister of Church, Education and Research a question about this with organized student housing for the disabled. The Council of State indicates that an action plan will be presented to ensure improved organisation of student housing for the disabled. However, we believe it is important that the number of student homes adapted to the disabled should also be increased in the projects under way. That's why we think the government has to make sure that at least 10 pst. the student residences in Pilestredet Park are arranged for disabled persons. I also refer to the comments we have in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e520	I'll try to do this as quickly as possible. I just want to make a few brief comments. I think that both the Municipality of Oslo and the State have reason to be proud of this project. There were high ambitions as one went into this project to make a quite large and complicated area that has been used for hospitals, to turn to homes, in the middle of the center, where one was not to follow the old and traditional way of thinking "tear it down and build it new", but was to seek to get to a custom where to replace the hospital would get homes that were actually to help maintain the ambition of a hospital to make people healthy, to create a future housing environment that would allow people to remain healthy. I think it's a good idea, and it's a project idea that I want to party in many ways, not only in Oslo, but also in other parts of the country where you're expanding. This project has been solved in collaboration with private entrepreneurs. I have the rather definite impression that it has not been the approach of any of the parties that it has been to make the most of money – one should not of course go into this project with loss – but to develop something in common that would be of value to the future. It'll be expensive enough as it gets. Nevertheless, I think we have been given a good platform for this cooperation, while having had the opportunity to take into account the needs of both the University of Oslo, the University of Oslo, the State and the students in an attempt to use our market situation to offer them good housing at fairer prices. I am pleased with the agreement we have reached with Student Cooperation in Oslo, to find a solution that enables us to build reasonable student housing. In this package there is also a desire to seek a solution for the Oslo College in connection with nursing education, so that the units of pathology building could be used as a temporary place of refuge for this education in Oslo. Over the last few days, state buildings have announced that it may not be as simple as we had thought, because there is doubt about the capacity of the ventilation system. We will continue to work on this in our own right. I expect that we will find a sensible solution within the premises outlined in the Communication, and we will also inform the Committee on the final development of this. However, this has not yet been done to the point where it is possible to draw any consistent conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e545	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e554	Document No 8:19 for 1999-2000 addresses serious issues that are constantly being addressed in finding adapted solutions. And it's like there's problems that attract focus. We will therefore take this opportunity to stress that, despite the problems we are familiar with, child protection is essentially doing a good job, for the benefit of very many children and their families. The importance of the positive efforts made by child protection should not be underestimated, nor is there any doubt that if one adopts more than one measure in the past, a reduction in the problematic issues on which negative attention is being given. Proposalers point to the need for the continuous build-up of competences in the field of child protection. This is agreed by the Committee and is therefore pleased that, throughout the 1990s, earmarked resources have been allocated to build skills in counties and municipalities. The Ministry’s statement shows that, in line with the Befring Committee’s position, knowledge bases and networks are in the process of being able to provide high-quality child protection services — also in relation to the rapid changes in society that also affect children’s daily lives. The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the supervisory obligations of the county councillors with regard to child protection institutions are followed up as required by the law. The Committee has noted that the Ministry assesses changes in the supervisory methodology and would stress that any changes should not impair the legal certainty of individuals under the care of child protection. These are problems which the Committee has been dealing with throughout the period, and which it has actually underlined during each and every budgetary procedure. It is the State, the supervisory authority, which is the security and guarantee which the child must have. It is also important to follow up the action plans to be drawn up for each child and to evaluate them regularly in relation to the development of a child under care. The proposers request the establishment of a national authorisation system for child protection institutions. This issue was also raised during the last harvest of budgetary work, and the Committee expects the Government to come back to this in the context of the growth and living conditions of children and young people. An approval system is intended to ensure that those entrusted with the responsibility for the children of others, i.e. children under the care of child protection, are fit for the task and have sufficient competence in relation to the problem of taking care. The different children have different problems and different backgrounds, and they need different measures. This is why there is a great need for a wide range of institutions and foster homes to care for children who have problems. That this width is very important for the Committee and an approval system must not restrict its scope. When the public takes over the care of a child, the public also assumes a great responsibility. Therefore, it is extremely important that you have a continuous focus on child protection. Our society is also changing all the time, and a childhood is going so fast. So when things go wrong in the field of child protection, they have tremendous dramatic consequences for the children affected. So we have to have high focus all the way. It is also the background to the sample sizes that have been set up to assess the tasks of child protection and to assess the living conditions of children and young people in Norway. The size of the population will be given the opportunity to address these problems in the course of reporting on children and the living conditions of young people in Norway; it is announced that it will come in the summer. With this I recommend that the document be attached to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e580	In NOW 2000: 12, better known as the Befring Committee’s position, it is established that child protection is an important part of the welfare state. Like other parts of our society, child protection must also be renewed at regular intervals. This does not mean that the protection of children and the competences they hold today are useless. On the contrary, on the part of the Workers' Party, we would like to stress the importance of taking care of the resources on which we sit, not least human resources. Understanding the challenges our children face in today's complex societies requires a great deal of empathy and a high level of knowledge about children and the social conditions they live under. This can be illustrated by looking back at the history and establishment of the councils. These existed at a time when one had a one-sided focus on the responsibility for growth at home, and therefore this was also the starting point for where the problems had to arise. A hundred years later, we can say that this was wrong, and that we know that the cause is much more complicated and complex. But we also have reason to believe that the degree of complexity of children's problems coincides with the technological and cultural development of society. The need to also change child protection and adapt the need for competence to this reality is therefore necessary. This I have the impression that the employees in the sector have constructive insights into and great willingness to do. The Labour Party knows that the Government is working on these issues and is aware that the Government is adding to a broad review of child protection based on the Befring Committee's setting. Such a review could be linked to the notified child and youth messages and in the form of a separate odelstungsproposition. This is what we believe makes the proposal of the representatives of Halvorsen and Valle superfluous, even though we share many of the intentions of the proposers for better child protection. For the Workers' Party, it is important to see child protection in the context of a comprehensive child and youth policy. It is therefore not unnatural for parts of the Befring Committee to be followed up in a broader growth and living conditions message for children and young people. It is important to see the life situation of the most vulnerable children in the context of other child and youth policies. I have noticed the concern of the Minister for Child and Family Affairs for some of the private child protection institutions and am pleased that the Government is considering specific measures to ensure that institutions responsible for the weakest among us are pursuing a professional goal we can be familiar with. The proposal by the representatives of Valle and Halvorsen focuses in particular on whether child protection should be given a separate responsibility to lone minor asylum seekers. The important thing here is to clarify that the Child Protection Act applies to all children living in Norway. We cannot have an automatic system in which unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are treated as child protection clients without a real child protection situation. At the same time, I need to clarify that all single minor asylum seekers have the right to services and measures under the Child Protection Act if they have a specific need for help. Children need adults — and adults need children. That must be our starting point. We need to ensure these children's professionally qualified people, adults who are there over time, and adults who are able to tolerate untapped behavior from children who have failed by adults in the past. We also need to look specifically at how the various departments cooperate on children and young people. In particular, it is important that child protection and child and youth psychiatry establish a cooperation that excludes these children from becoming caste balls in the system. Based on an overall assessment, the Labour Party therefore believes that in such a large and complex case it is important to have a thorough and good review of the system, so that we get the best possible solutions for those who need it the most, namely the children. The Labour Party will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e601	Children and young people have the right to protection and help, but there are things that indicate that prevention activity in the field of growth is not good enough and may be underestimated in society. The proposers focus on an important area that requires great attention from both politicians and child protection workers. I share the commitment of the proposers to have a high-quality and well-functioning child protection. The Bondevik government named the Befring selection in January 1999, based on the same commitment of representatives Valle and Halvorsen. The selection was tasked with implementing the first holistic assessment of the functioning of the organised child protection service in Norway. The mandate was broad and would specifically focus on strengthening foster homes, on prevention measures in families and on how to strengthen the legal security of children and parents in child protection matters. The statement ‘The Child Protection in Norway’ was as is well known to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs last spring, and we are informed that NOU 2000: 12 is being followed up by a growing-up report on children and young people’s growing-up and living conditions, which is expected to be completed in June this year. I therefore agree with the Minister for Children and Family that in connection with it it will be natural to address several of the aspects of this Doc. No The 8's come up with. The Committee will then be involved in a very interesting and comprehensive work. We know, for example. that the Befring selection comes with nearly 70 recommendations, and we also know that there are no simple solutions to the child protection challenges. In the area of child protection, it has always been and will always be a dilemma. Even if we come back to this topic, here I will be able to say something short about the prevention and use of relief measures. In contrast to previous child protection laws, today's Children's Protection Services Act, which has been in force since 1992, has a purpose clause. Paragraph 1-1, the purpose of which is to be promised, states: ‘The purpose of this Act is: ensuring that children and young people living under conditions likely to harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner, to contribute to the secure development of children and young people.» The objective paragraph expresses the policy objectives of the action of the child protection authorities and provides guidance for the general priorities of the service and the interpretation of the individual needs. The objective paragraph is twofold in that it covers both the general tasks of the Child Protection Service and the specific tasks of the Child Protection Service in relation to the provision of assistance to displaced children and young people. In this context, it is important to take into account that the Child Welfare Service has a special responsibility, on the one hand, to facilitate the provision of services to outsourced groups and, on the other hand, to facilitate the use of more general measures for postponing groups. The current law on child-resistance services clearly states that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health or development receive proper timely assistance. I am particularly concerned with Chapter 4 of the Act, which deals with specific measures that can be taken in relation to the individual child and its family. The 1992 amendment allowed voluntary relief measures to be implemented at an earlier stage than under the 1953 Child Protection Act. Today’s law places great emphasis on working with the individual family in cooperation with the family. It involves cooperation in which the family has a problem definition and its own proposals for action are to be given considerable space. Many still see child protection as only care and institutional settings. Of course, this aspect of child protection is important and necessary. But I would like to underline the value of putting in place good measures – in cooperation with parents – as early as possible, so that some fixed situations can be avoided. Many of the relief measures being implemented in the field of child protection are still of a traditional nature. Child protection still has a way to go when it comes to testing alternative approaches based on user involvement, including in the issues bordering on taking care. An authoritative practice in these cases imposes requirements on the child protection worker other than in the design of more general measures. Proposal providers point to a very important point when calling for a higher level of competence in the field of child protection. We can only say that professional and ethical skills for child protection professionals need to be strengthened because the challenges are great, many and complicated. During the last six months, ‘poor children’ have been viewed emphatically on the agenda. Several aspects of children living in poverty have been identified, including: by the Red Cross and the ECON investigation published in January of this year. I would like to stress that it is particularly important to grasp the fact that there are children today who live with parents who are homeless. According to Civil Engineering, this actually applies to 400 children. It's so serious that we can't wait for new arrangements and handling. Homeless children require immediate action, and it can be resolved before today's legislation. Pending the child and young people's living conditions, we need to ensure that children living under the highest critical conditions receive the necessary help and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e637	As previous speakers have pointed out, the broad consensus within the Committee shows that child protection is important and has an important position in Norwegian society. It is such that child protection services are and must be the overall public measures targeted at disadvantaged children and young people. In a broad sense, one might say that it is the whole range of child policy instruments, and therefore all levels of administration are entrusted with tasks that can relate to the protection of children and young people. Particular emphasis is placed on competence. Here I also think it is worth noting that, throughout the 1990s, substantial funds have been given to various child protection competence measures. And as the letter from the Council of State shows, this means is in addition to the means that come from the counties and municipalities. The Progress Party is not so sure that there is an increase in the cash flow to child protection that is necessary to achieve better solutions. We believe that reforming in the form of better use of the competences that are structured and existing will be a strong contribution not only to the institution of child protection – this is true of all cross-border cooperation. Or let me say it this way: maybe multidisciplinary cooperation needs to be prioritised. It is a fact that there are still some bulkheads in the general childhood and youth professional environment. The Progress Party believes that this may be the reason why a person should consider the role of child protection as his own institution, not in order to reduce child protection, but in order to build an institution where there is a multidisciplinary sharing of competences in a common institution. In fact, in such cooperation, I believe that both police, school and child and youth psychiatry should be involved. It may seem that we have quite thorough and real documentation about the child protection child. In particular, it is very well documented in project report 2 000: 7 from the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research, Barnervern in Norway 1990-1997. At the same time, however, it can act as a profit-and-loss account for the consequences of child protection working methods. It may seem that it is deficient. I also think it is worth taking into account that in the 1990s 70 000 child protection children have been registered. Here I believe it is important that the political environment also looks at the general family status. The family status is an element that is also included in the report that I have referred to earlier. The actual situation was 67 pst in 1997. of all children under 18 years of age together with married parents. In the case of child-restraint, there are several fewer married parents. Only 30 pst. children living with both mother and father. This I believe should get some bells to call for someone each. Otherwise, the Progress Party broadly shares the views contained in Document No. The 8 proposal, and we look forward to a thorough and comprehensive study and assessment of the situation of child protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e654	This matter that we are now dealing with is a broad consensus in Stortinget. It shows the setting, and it also shows the letters attached to the setting by the two government councils, both in the previous government and the current government. It is also announced that children and young people are growing up and living conditions, and I also understand that changes in the law are being assessed and will come back with it if necessary. I was therefore quite surprised when I heard instead that the Workers' Party spokesperson recommended the Workers' Party to reject this proposal. I think that becomes an unnecessary conflict in a matter where it is important that we all stand together, and where we – as I see it – actually do. As the rapporteur pointed out, it is important that we constantly focus on child protection, because society is changing so rapidly, and because we are facing situations that can have dramatic consequences, both for individuals, for families and for society in the long term. The points raised in the proposal, which the Committee has commented on, do not require me to repeat. So it's about competence, it's about children's need to be seen and heard, it's about the role of the county in this context and the need for multidisciplinary cooperation. And there I just want to stress the danger that these kids fall between two chairs, and you get a discharge, because there's complicated situations you can get into. There is also agreement to focus on minor asylum seekers and refugees. In particular, like Inger Stolt-Nielsen and also Shahbaz Tariq, I would like to point out this with a national authorisation system for all types of child protection institutions. I think that's a very big need for it. It will provide a security that is actually lacking today, both in terms of the content of the offer and the competence of the employees. There are probably a lot of good private child protection institutions, but I also have – if I may say so – the impression that you can get into such difficult situations that municipalities think it's best to pay off the problem by sending a child to an institution that you actually don't know exactly what's going on. It's a very unfortunate situation. I would like to stress the importance of this being followed up as quickly as possible, and I would also like to refer to the committee's comment as set out in the vote, which was from our budgetary position before Christmas. Finally, let me point to the Befring selection setting. In my opinion, it is a very good work that the Befring Committee has done. There's been a lot of work going on. It has had a very broad starting point, i.e. it has gone straight on the whole, on growing-up conditions in a broad sense, and also on this with the value base for children's growth and for the society and attitudes with which we meet children and young people. Shahbaz Tariq also mentioned the expression ‘empathy’, that we have to learn to meet children with empathy. I fully agree with that. Empati, i.e. sensitivity, is one of the society that is missing today. And it's not just the ability of adults to live into the everyday life and situation of children and young people, but it also means learning children and young people at sea to have an empathetic attitude toward their fellow human beings. There, I think, we are facing very big challenges, which we may also see in the picture of the worrying development of violence that we have. So this with empathy, I think, is crucial for us to be able to build a society based on solidarity. Otherwise, I just want to refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e678	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that so many have expressed agreement with regard to the thoughts behind Document No. The 8th proposal. In 1997, SV went to the elections at ‘Children and young people first’. Throughout this growing period, it has been a compass for our work. Both in the election campaign at the time and in the further work we have come in contact with children and young people who have received or have not received help from child protection. We have been in contact with those who work in the field of child protection, and partners. We have been given solid information about the state, and that is the background for us to promote this proposal for a national action plan a year and a half ago. In the meantime, we've got the Befring Committee's review of child protection. That review documents many of the experiences we've had. Now it's about making it not just word, but that it's followed up with action. Now, when a big message comes to summer, we agree that resources need to be used to do it well enough, but that an action plan resulting from a big message, at least cannot wait winter and spring. However, there is one area in which we believe there is an urgent need to do something, where there is solid evidence that there is an urgent need to do something, and there is a need to develop skills. Here we believe that there is no reason to wait, and I will come back to that. First a few general comments: SV shares the Befring Committee's approach, that child growth conditions depend on many elements that may be more important than child protection, family, school, kindergarten, community, leisure and friends. However, when it fails, and children and young people have major problems, child protection is the aid body responsible for coordinating assistance to children and young people in an unsustainable growing-up situation. The intervention from child protection, or lack of intervention, can have major consequences, as was the case with Inger Stolt-Nielsen. Therefore, it is important that child protection is well equipped to meet the major challenges they face daily. We want child protection with good competence that interacts with children and parents, other agencies and the other auxiliaries. It's a prerequisite for children and parents to get the help they need. Therefore, there is a need for constant attention on the part of the large society towards child protection, both in terms of resources and in relation to the development of child protection. It's true that it's been put through different programs, as it says in the settings, but there's a lot left, and so we're busy with that. In 1998, I had an interview about the development of child protection skills. I pointed out at the time that more and more children are having problems. The challenges and society are changing. Therefore, child protection must be given the opportunity to be a continuous learning organisation, with continuous competency and systematic guidance. Skills are needed to see and listen to children, to interact with parents in a new way and to meet the challenges. We think it's a paradox that it's primarily the employees' organization that's been on the barricades for this, and that until now you've listened little to exactly what they have to tell you. But now they're getting support from the Befring Committee. We point out, and have received a lot of information, that there is a large ‘turnover’ in municipal child protection. Lots of escapes into new jobs. In Bergen, there is actually one in four child-restraint workers who have less than one year's service. So it's the youngest with the least experience that meets families and children in crisis. It is a tough job to apply measures to the families or to take the child out of the family. Therefore, there is a need for skills and continuous guidance. There is a general view that multi-disciplinary cooperation is important. I have the experience of child-restraint workers that many times I have met a child-rescue guard with a glass bell pulled down over my head. It also underlines the need to fill skills. We also believe that it is important to fill this competence to meet the major problem of this ‘tourover’. I would refer to the comments we have in the vote, and I would like to address the proposal that is also referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e699	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e702	The representatives of Valle and Halvorsen, through their proposal, address a very serious issue. Child protection is set to take care of the weakest of our children. The quality of Norwegian society can be measured in many ways on the basis of how we treat our weakest. There is therefore a great deal of agreement between me and the representatives of Valle and Halvorsen that child protection should be organised in a way that ensures these children’s assistance and that child protection should have the necessary competence to follow up these children. There have also been several speakers in the debate. We need to put in place a child-restraint that ensures the weakest children safe, up-to-date and professionally competent adults who are standing and who are able to stand, over time. Children are often under the care of child protection because we adults have failed or have no power to give these children what they need. I have spent a lot of time since I became the Council of State talking to children and young people who have had experience and views on child protection. Many of the stories have made a very deep impression on me. I am therefore very concerned about putting in place a child protection that really protects the children. I know that many child protection employees are making a formidable effort. Then it was just to be lacking that politicians do not go far in looking at the framework conditions under which child protection works. And let me make a deposit: when we discuss framework conditions, we talk all too often unilaterally about the financial framework conditions. In my opinion, it is probably so much about how we organise our services. Not least, I am concerned that we need to organise services in such a way that we ensure close and close contact between child and youth psychiatry and child protection. Here I fully share Sandberg's view, and this is one of the things the government is working very intensively with. As the representative Lahnstein was also involved in his speech, the Befring Committee provided a comprehensive and thorough analysis of Norwegian child protection, NOU 2000: 12, ‘The Child Protection Service in Norway. State assessments, new perspectives and proposals for reforms’. The proposals for reform are many in this investigation. In my opinion, it is appropriate to discuss these proposals together. This will be done in the upcoming growing-up and living conditions for children and young people. There should be heavy arguments for reform if we are to propose changes now. I see such needs with regard to the issue of rights and coercion in child protection institutions. For this reason, the Ministry has sent out for consultation a proposal for a revised regulation on rights and coercive practices while staying at child protection institutions. An approval system is also a matter that I work very intensively with, and that may well be presented before the notification. In order to avoid unnecessary time-use, the Ministry of Children and the Family, as mentioned above, is working at the same time as considering the legislative proposals proposed by the Befring Committee. Much attention has also been paid to the issue of child protection, and extended responsibility for lone minors and asylum seekers should be given. We know that the proposal proposes to give child protection the responsibility for identifying needs and implementing relief measures and coordinating actions for the target population. I can also mention that the Befring Committee asks the authorities to assess whether housing measures for minor asylum seekers should be converted into child protection institutions. I would like to emphasise that the first proposal would violate the principles of stimulating local solutions and individualising measures for this target group, as described in St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001 on asylum and refugee policy in Norway. As you know, the government is working to provide municipalities with a more local space for action. In my opinion, setting a new framework for municipal autonomy requires that we are absolutely sure that it will be the best solution. However, I am very concerned about the lone minor asylum seekers. I am therefore pleased that the Government, through the communication on asylum and refugee policy in Norway, has given special attention to this group, and if there is a need for assistance through child protection, these children should receive that help.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e720	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e723	When I previously concluded, I was injured to say that the Workers' Party rejected the proposal. The correct thing is that Document No. The 8th motion, tabled by Mr Halvorsen and Mr Valle, is annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e728	I have not in any way intended to keep a wooden-minute post, nor am I going to use 3 minutes, but there were parts of Sandberg's post that provoked me so strongly that I felt a urge to say from. When Sandberg puts the focus on the lonely supporter, I become anxious in view of the upcoming election campaign. That's a reason many people are lonely. It can very often be the same as the reason why child protection has a focus on these children, and it is not for the best of these children if a negative focus is now focused on the families that have one adult as a caregiver. If this is the recording of a campaign in which the sole caregivers are supposed to be chickens for the Progress Party, I am very concerned – very much – not least with the children of the sole caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e747	As co-rapporteur for Document No. 8:82 for 1999-2000 on the voluntary sharing of pension credits between spouses in a joint enterprise for the period 1967-86, it is a pleasure to note that a joint committee supports this principle. There are several initiators in this case. Norway’s Bonde women’s teams have been fighting for this principle for many years, and the centre party representative Unn Aarrestad raised the issue in Stortinget last year just before the government change. Document No The 8-proposal was launched in June last year. Even I have had many enquiries about the injustice that has prevailed. I think it is right to take this historical introduction, as in some press releases it seems that the matter has come on the initiative of the Social Minister. It gets a little wrong, but it should be right, the Minister of Social Affairs has done his job, after those initiatives, and sent the matter out to the hearing. The centre party would stress that this case applies to spouses in the joint enterprise, regardless of the industry, of course. Family businesses and small shops, crafts, cafes, etc. will come under this scheme when husband and wife have had a common job. This is a matter of principle, a case of justice and, in particular, a case of equality. A very discriminatory system for women who have put a lot of work into a joint enterprise will now be changed. It's great that a total staggering will correct the distortions that past decisions have unintentionally led to. Just so bad it's taken so long! I shall record the comments of the Committee in the vote, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee has noted that the subject of a voluntary allocation scheme of pension credits would thus have to be the sum of spouses’ pensionable income for the relevant years up to 1982.’ It's not given that there's going to be any big economic gain for the individual, but here's the principle that one should get back after the effort that you've made, which is essentially. However, there is a catch at the setting at my discretion, which says that ‘it must be a condition that none of the spouses are already retired’. I am not a member of the Social Committee, so I have not been in the cancellation process. That is why I am so free to ask questions about the reason for this attitude. It seems immediately unreasonable, not least in cases where there is a large age difference between the spouses, and one may have been in a joint enterprise even after reaching retirement age. I'm also thinking about if, for example. The woman is the oldest, and then goes out with the minimum pension. How would this look? I would like to hear the reasons given by the Council of State, as it is said in the vote that the Committee has taken note, etc. And what you've noticed must be from information that's come from the Government. Why does it have to be like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e785	The present suspension addresses problems with lack of transplant organs in Norway, resulting in patients dying of various disorders while waiting for organs. This applies to organs such as hearts, liver, kidneys, lungs and pancreas. Lack of access to transplant organs is generally a problem across Western Europe. In fact, Norway is a little better off than the other countries. Research into the use of animal organs in humans has been intensive for several years, but fears of transmission of viral diseases by such transplantation are also prohibited in Norway. There are today great expectations of new genetic and biotechnologies. In fact, within the next ten years, therapeutic cloning is expected to enable tissue of different kinds to be transplanted to sick people. Researchers believe that, if not too long, one will be able to partially replace transplant surgery with tissue transplants. This will save the lives of many young people, but it is assumed that Norwegian law in this field is in line with international law, so that Norwegian researchers and clinicians can participate in research and development at an international level. Today, Norway has 27 donor hospitals that, in cooperation with the Rikshospitalet, take care of transplant-release organs. The responsibility for organ treatment is not assigned to one special subject, nor do the donor hospitals have additional reimbursements for this work. This question is raised by the representatives of Storing Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Anders C. Sjaastad in Document No. 8:5, on which this setting is based. Some countries in Europe have had a donor registry system, and some countries have also had a donor card system. None of these arrangements have responded to expectations. The present proposal in Document No. 8:5 has been submitted to the Minister for Health for his opinion and, in his response to the Social Committee, the Minister for Health has, among other things: that he will come back to the question of the donor establishment when state hospitalisation has been completed. In the case of additional payments to donor hospitals, the Minister of Health refers to the DRG Statutes, which are now being reviewed, and where this issue will be considered in this context. As regards the question of ensuring the access of resources to the Rikshospital to investigations and organ transplants raised in the proposal, the Minister of Health, in his reply to the Committee, shows that there is now a review of the operating economy of the Rikshospital, including the future surgical activity. The Rikshospitalet is the only hospital in Norway that currently performs organ transplantation. An overall social committee supports the proposal to call on the Government in the 2002 budget to propose that a separate coordinator be appointed in all donor hospitals and that hospitals be guaranteed financial compensation for additional organ transplantation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e804	It is an important theme that Solberg, Sjøli and Sjaastad have addressed in Document No. 8:5 for 2000-2001. The waiting lists for organ transplants are greatly increasing. Since 1995, the waiting lists have increased by 53 pst. On 1 January this year, 274 patients were on the waiting list for a lifesaving organ. The whole 30-35 pst. by the relatives say no to donation, probably because many of them know little or nothing about this until they face the question and/or do not know the attitude of the one who has gone away. In order for more people to say yes, it is very important to strengthen the information work. I am familiar with the great effort of the Foundation Organ Donation Performing. They have small financial resources for their important work and cannot pay the manager and other people in the foundation, who put down a lot of effort. I hope the Minister of Health will consider, at a later date, making a financial contribution to the Foundation. By means of the Extra game, they have produced a video film and educational material, distributed to all the country's secondary schools. A grant from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has enabled the production and distribution of a brochure in 1.25 million copies. They need more brochures and have applied to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for 2.4 million. kr. I hope the Minister of Health will find a quick opportunity to support this important work. I am pleased that there is an overall committee asking the Government in next year's budget to propose that, in all approved donor hospitals, a responsible coordinator be appointed to the emergency departments. It is resource-intensive to care for a donor until donation, the estimated cost is between NOK 50000 and NOK 100000. This will not be compensated for by the donor hospital. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health has informed that during the current year there will be a review of the Rikshospital's economy, and that the question of resources for investigation and necessary surgical capacity will be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e821	There were exciting perspectives that the representative Alvheim pulled up in his post, and we'll probably come back to that in other contexts. I think this is a little ahead of time, so I want to stick to today's situation and possibilities. The right is pleased that the Social Committee has unanimously joined the Right’s proposal for concrete measures to improve access to transplant organs in Norway. In recent years, the number of donations from the deceased has increased, and last year there were 79 donations. Nevertheless, it is long waiting lists, and that is approx. 200 people on the waiting list to get a healthy organ. Today's organ donation system is too poor, and more lives could have been saved if the hospitals had their own personnel responsible for this area. It shall be carried out approximately: 300 transplants in Norway each year. Lack of accessible organs has increased the waiting time for those who need new kidney, lung or heart. 15 pst. by those waiting for a heart or lung transplant, they die waiting for an organ. These patients experience a great deal of pressure and there is considerable uncertainty as to whether transplantation can occur in time. The practice today is that the hospital staff contact the relatives to ask if the patient can donate organs. There is a very demanding situation both for health professionals and not least for relatives. It is too random who is on guard and whether they have sufficient competence to deal with such a situation in a good way. When a patient is a current donor, it is important that this process is initiated quickly and that staff have the necessary training. The right is therefore pleased that a unanimous Social Committee is asking the Government, in the context of the next year’s budget, to make concrete proposals to strengthen this area. In all approved donor hospitals, a responsible coordinator shall be appointed at all emergency departments, responsible for identifying potential donors and ensuring that relatives are requested. It also presupposes that donor hospitals are guaranteed financial compensation in order to carry out these tasks. It is therefore necessary to secure financial resources to investigate patients requiring transplantation and surgical capacity to perform the transplants when the organs are available. Spain has implemented similar measures to those for which the Right has now received a majority, and it has contributed to their actual being at the top of Europe in terms of the number of donations per year. the population. As I said, I am pleased that there is now a unanimous agreement to improve access to organs and thus save more lives. I also hope that this debate can help more people think about the possibility of donating organs to transplantation. There is a clear need to strengthen information in this area, both through information to the population and through information and training of hospital health professionals. I am aware that the Department in 1997 contributed to the publication of a brochure from the Organdonation Foundation, and am now pleased that the Department will consider providing additional funds for printing a new edition. This foundation does a very good job of information. I would also like to mention the Norwegian organ donation advisory group. This group consists of representatives from the donor hospitals and the Rikshospitalet, and makes considerable efforts in the training of personnel treating potential donors and their families. I have also noticed that there are regional resource groups for organ donation in all regional hospitals. These are very good measures and, together with the measures to which a unanimous committee has now joined, the supply of organ transplantation will be significantly improved. Finally, I would like to say: Organ transplantation is more than a biological process. For some it is felt as a great privilege to be able to contribute to the rescue of another human being, as a potential donor said to the Haugesunds Avis on 7 October last year: ‘For me, the choice to give bodies is an expression of love and love for life. It's about giving of yourself, giving a life after death." It is underlined that this is of course not a simple choice: ‘The decision requires time, care and thorough thought.’ Others don't want to be donors, and of course that has to be respected. Many people find organ donation difficult to think about and prefer not to decide what is going to happen to the body after death. The choice is left to the relatives, and it is also a difficult choice to make on behalf of others. I hope that this debate can contribute to more of us thinking about such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e861	When a life can be saved by transplanting an organ, the tragedy is great when the organ is not available. This is, of course, further reinforced by the claim that there is a significant potential for improving access to transplant organs in Norway. The Committee points out, in its comments, a number of processes in place to increase access to bodies. In this context, I would like to point to a situation that is being slowed down, namely the establishment of donor registers. I'll claim that a reasonable established donor register can be a good supplement. In some countries, among others: Australia, you've had a record that you're a donor, on your driver's license. California has such an arrangement today. There are young people who take driving licences, who are faced with the decision to be a donor, and many of them are. I do not want to raise myself to claim how Norwegian youth would react to the same thing. But I think I have reason to believe that the attitude of this in young people today would lead to most of those who take driving licences being registered on the driving licence as a donor. The fact that this could also lead to a greater awareness of the consequences of obscurity in traffic on the part of young people would be an additional effect in relation to an accident statistics that are going in the wrong direction. The challenge of accessing bodies has practical but not least ethical aspects. In this context, donor labelling on driving licences should also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e872	There is every reason to believe that organ transplantation will be important and topical for many years to come. Transplanting from animals, so-called xeno transplantation, causes a lot of problems, not only the purely infectious and technical, but also ethical problems. For example, who should be given priority to human organs, and who should receive animal organs? So-called therapeutic cloning also has significant ethical problems, and researchers have so far been able to represent us with revolutionary results, but there are also competent researchers in this field who claim that marketing is so far much better than research results. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, supports the proposal for a decision, and considers it important that the proposal is in favour of the best possible organisation of donor and transplantation activities for the benefit of the people concerned, who have an existence in their waiting time for a transplant organ that must be a severe mental strain in addition to the physical suffering that is the basis for the need for transplantation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e881	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6, 7 and 8 are treated together. [[Footage, see page 2208]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e915	As part of the budget, the Government proposed the introduction of a business cycle tax of 1,5 pst. payable by enterprises and traders on the basis of their compensation of employees and of entrepreneurial income. This would give a proceeds of approx. 9 billion kroner. The Labour Party considered that such a charge could dampen the pressure where it was the largest in the labour market. At the same time, by reducing the pressure in the private sector, room could be given to meet the demand for labour in the public sector and thus strengthen the common good. The Labour Party considered that such a general but low cyclical charge shared by many would best meet the economic and welfare policy objectives. As is known, the Workers' Party did not agree to this proposal and the budget agreement replaced the general cyclical charge with other measures in relation to industry, along with an increase in the VAT rate. The new measures, which resulted in reduced rates of depreciation, eliminate the possibility of double interest rebates for, among others. banks having branches abroad, and what we are dealing with today, a separate short-term industrial building tax, were widely assumed to pursue the same interests as the Government's original proposal for a short-term economic tax, which was also underlined by the central parties in their comments: ‘These members indicate that instead of an increased employer’s fee, there is a majority for a short-term industrial building tax. An industrial building tax will be targeted and reduce the pressure in an industry with a high labour shortage.» In retrospect, it has been found that the effects of such a targeted short-term charge were much greater than what we had initially seen for ourselves. We also see in retrospect that such a charge has weaknesses, and that it may be unreasonable for a restricted industry to bear such heavy burdens in order to mitigate private sector demand. We have also taken inwards the fact that the industry itself has announced that the decision involves cancellations and leave of several thousand employees in the construction industry. In this context, the Government has made proposals for the abolition of short-term industrial building charges, to which the entire Committee subscribes. The elimination of the short-term economic cost will lead to a loss of revenue of about NOK 1.6 billion in the future budget. The Government proposes that this loss of revenue be recovered by postponing the removal of the investment levy from 1 January 2002 to 1 April 2002. A majority of the committee supports such a proposal, which we will come back to through the examination of Ot.prp. No 37. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that two Document Nos have been promoted in this respect. 8-proposal to remove the short-term cost of industrial buildings. The Committee proposes that these be annexed to the Protocol, referring to the examination of the Government's proposal for the winding-up of the same levy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e939	After it became known that the business cycle fee was one of the results of the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, there was a massive flow of warnings from the construction industry and related industries about the serious consequences of such a charge. It was also obvious to most that a desire to mitigate the activity and pressure in the Norwegian economy cannot be met by adding an entire industry to the mill bag for a year. That's exactly what was about to happen. Figures from the construction industry show that more than 20 000 people would be affected and that at least 7 000 jobs in the construction industry would disappear. These are dramatic figures in an industry which, according to figures from the Ministry of Finance already before the budget was adopted, was declining, with a reduction in the number of jobs. While the cyclical charge on the one hand would create a sharp decline in 2001, the closure of the levy, together with the expected removal of the investment levy, would lead to a sharp increase in the demand for conversions and new buildings, and created capacity problems in a built-up industry. But perhaps the most serious thing in this case is that parties that often stress the importance that business can work long-term and with predictable framework conditions through credible budgeting on the part of the Stortinge are going on such a jojo policy as they have done in this case. Moreover, the confidence of foreign investors who consider investing in Norway is not strengthened by what needs to be seen as rootstock and as a lack of a serious and long-term industrial policy. That after just a few weeks the bidding collaboration parties understand that the cyclical fee is actually going to work according to purpose and thus getting cold feet, can seem strange. But better late than never. The Progress Party has consistently opposed this charge and, of course, supports the proposal to remove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e954	This case shows politics in its most absurd way, because now, so soon after a comprehensive decision has been taken, you find that the decision works according to purpose, and then you go back to it. This shows that the lack of long-termity of late nights in Plaza is not suitable for making national tax policies. So here we are proposing to remove a fee that was obviously part of a negotiating arrangement between the Government and the central parties. One discovers that the fee actually works as intended, and then one removes it. SV's starting point has always been that this was a very unwise grip. We wanted the cyclical fee originally proposed by the Government, which had a lower basis and a broader basis. The fee proposed here, with a high rate and a limited impact field, would hit one industry quite unfairly, and that means, of course, that what we warned against, has actually happened. The lesson to be learned from this, as well as from another matter that will come later in the Storting, which is what goes on depreciation rates, write-offs, which show exactly the same thing, is that to make extensive changes in the tax and tax system, it actually requires a certain amount of preparation and not late night hours. It also means that in another case that Stortinget will discuss later today, about a future tax settlement, there is a lot to learn from this. Norwegian policies need a greater degree of long-termity and a lower degree of the approach of approach than what this case is about. At my discretion, this sadly puts politics in a rather gruesome light – it makes the decisions of Stortinget laugh. That means you just can't take it seriously, because it's possible at any time to take a rematch on any decision because it's actually not really and properly thought out. This is not a completely insignificant amount. It's about as much as NOK 1.6 billion, which, of course, is a significant amount. You choose this by pushing the fee you want to remove, one month or two, or maybe even four months, and that way you think you're going to get a break. Of course, this invasion is totally fictitious, and it knows a total landfill. Of course, those looking to make an investment in January next year will postpone that investment until April in order to avoid the investment levy. This is a purely fictional discovery, this is «similar policy», and I have to say that this whole matter is a little sad. I still want to support the conclusion, to remove the cyclical tax, because SV has never agreed to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e967	Most of it has been said about this matter, and the parties that in their time were behind the majority that promoted the business cycle fee keep their mouths shut, said in the big language. I get that. Let me then not bore any more in the wounds, but just stress one thing, that this matter may be a little thoughtful in terms of the belief of big business politicians in the ability to run cyclical management with these kinds of instruments. The picture of the need for cyclical management, i.e. the picture of the need to influence economic development, tends to lie somewhat behind actual developments. The economic reports we have received, both last year and now in the new year, show that, above all, there is a need for intervention in the economy to dampen growth, now perhaps gradually there is a need for growth-stimulating measures. We have in Norway a GDP growth below our neighbouring countries. At the top of it all, this is an industry – the construction industry – where there is considerable free capacity. If the fee had been allowed to work, i.e. if the decision had been taken, the effect would not have occurred until about one and a half to two years. That's all reason to think that the situation would have been completely different. I think – and there I have to say that I share a bit of the opinion of the SV spokesman, it is not every day – that when you are going to recover this tax by postponing the reliefs in the investment tax by a quarter in 2002, and the reason for it is not at all in terms of economic or political economic conditions, at least not in terms of economic activity, but in terms of keeping a balance in the budget, then you do the whole balance discussion a great bear service, and you put the whole concept into trouble. Because it's just going to be technical arithmetic. It doesn't have any relationship. On the contrary, the need to speed up the timing of lifting the investment levy has gradually become more urgent if any change had been made at all. Finally, as I mentioned at the outset, the matter has been reasonably highlighted through budgetary debates in the Stortingen last autumn and in the general, general public debate. The only question you're essentially left with is, who really thought of this? I see that even Terje Johansen has not taken responsibility. Then I wonder who, in the late hours of the night at the Plaza Hotel, who invented this idea, of which no one now basically is a follower. It might be standing as the greatest mystery of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e976	On the basis of the question from the representative Foss, I can confirm that I will accept the fatherhood of this proposal. The representative Foss may find it possible if he looks at the comments from other parties when our draft budget, which did not contain this proposal, was presented. When Per-Kristian Foss takes a settlement with this type of business cycle fee, I think it is part of the story – and it may also be a clue for the representative Foss to find an answer to his question about who found this – that the actual representative Foss, and the Progress Party in addition to the Right, voted in favour of this business cycle fee itself, not now, but in connection with cabinet questions from the government of Bondevik in 1998, because then it was a business cycle fee on construction. It didn't seem to the Right was a good idea, but from a whole they found reason to vote for it. This time we didn't think this was necessarily a glittering idea, but from a whole we found reason to vote for it in the first place. None of the two times has come out of the proposal, which various parties have voted for without being particularly happy about it. Perhaps we, the party Right and others can agree that this is the last time we have seen the proposal for a short-term tax on barley, which is more than in this case the government party, the Workers' Party, has agreed to vote in favour on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e983	After all, the Workers' Party's explanation is no better than trying to involve a difficult parliamentary situation in the balance between the short-term tax or not on construction. When the central parties and the Workers' Party sat and negotiated the budget in the autumn, it was one and only a negotiation to reach an agreement on a government budget. At that time we were not even close to a parliamentary situation in the Stortinget where the Government threatened to leave. It was a matter which was in no way clarified or known to the Storting or the Financial Committee at that time. Then it was a little sought after when Dag Terje Andersen tried to link this to a previous situation, where we had a cabinet question in the hall that was about being or not being for the government then. So it was not a question of whether you were in favour of or against a short-term tax on barley. I think it's pretty important to separate these relationships. The fact that such a proposal has not been made at once does not qualify either for a new attempt to do something that everyone has agreed is not good. But I record – I don't know if I'm going to register it with pleasure – that it is now signaled by the Workers' Party that we can be reasonably sure that no such proposal will come in the future. I hope not. I don't think the worst thing about the whole process is whether one believes that the short-term building fee is a reasonable matter or not, but that is the way the proposal is made. It is a problem that such proposals are made in late hours of night in a situation of negotiation, and that the consequences of what they involve are not taken inward, while one sits and negotiates about it. It's a bigger problem than what it actually brings after it's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e992	It is true that ideas of a similar nature to this business cycle tax have come from the Bondevik administration. I understand that the Workers' Party is therefore trying to place responsibility at the Centre parties, at least at one or more of them. I did not comment on that, but just note that when we gave ourselves this in our time, it was based on the fact that it was better to accept an investigation into such a fee, rather than to change the government. I have to say that the Workers' Party has done everything they can to prove it was a correct assessment when they got the government position! But I understand that what really happened in these late night hours was actually that some kind of informal cabinet question was asked, and that's why it happened, what happened. It contributes to a useful historical clarification by the Chair of the Financial Committee on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e997	Now I will not assume any responsibility for the investment fee to the extent. However, I would like to stress that what we have at least found out about the proposal included in the budget agreement is that a short-term cost seems to dampen the construction activity. It is clear that we may need to propose this later. To say for all time that it will never be proposed again, I thought I was a little short-sighted. We can imagine situations where we need to dampen construction activity. What we saw with the proposal that was adopted before Christmas was that the proposal as it was, dampened the construction activity almost only in the districts, but not in the central strata, where we had needed a certain dampening. I am pleased that we are now removing the cyclical fee, but I would like to stress that there are professional bodies, among others. The SSB, which has gone out of its way against the fact that we're now removing it. They thought it was a fee that would seem decent compared to having a pressure in the construction industry. As I said, I am pleased that she will be removed, but I would like to point out that we have seen that this is a fee that will seem damp, if we need it in the future. We might want to see if it is natural and appropriate to target a tax to reduce the pressure in the areas that require damping, and not to dampen it in the areas that really need strengthening in relation to the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1006	I think it is appropriate that I also take the floor in this matter, since I have a proposal similar to what is to be adopted today. Then you can wonder why the proposal was promoted. It has a little to do with the deadlines for submitting proposals. That there was a message on TV that the cyclical fee would be removed from the government's office the evening before the deadline expired, has not much to do with the matter. The case is equally relevant to that. I wonder what people around the country think about the politicians who run this country. Bondevik asked cabinet questions about the exact economic cost. And then there wasn't any of it. Then there will be a new government and a budget settlement with the parties in the same government that would go off if it was introduced. And then it's promoted. Then it goes a few weeks, and then it gets removed again. What kind of trust can Norwegian people and voters have in such politicians? That's what's my cross of mind about this. We ridicule the politicians and carry on with the fire of political contempt. That is my concern in this. When we see the proposal for a short-term business tax in connection with the depreciation rules for business buildings, I have to ask what the Ministry of Finance and the city centre mates and the Government are thinking about. Do they think that the means used so far are too slow to liquidate the district industries and rural settlements? Is it really the intention to hit the last nail in the coffin? I'm just asking. For those who are to develop economic activity, it is necessary to reduce the costs to a maximum extent when building a fishing farm, a poultry, a car shop or whatever it may be in the districts. So you have to have a business trip fee in addition to not being allowed to write off the building, and the reason must be that it is getting in value! It rises in value, which is the reason why a person should not have depreciation rules like before. For the thing is this, that when the building is built in Boat fjord, in Training, in Røst, in Honningsvåg, in Mehamn, or anywhere, it has fallen to half in value. What kind of appreciation is that? Once you've built your house in these places and you're going to sell it, you get no more than half for it than what you've paid. What kind of appreciation is that? It is not possible to compare the increase in capital formation in Oslo with the increase in capital appreciation in Røst or in Mehamn. There are two different worlds we're talking about. I don't understand that it's true that the center parties can go into a deal that just goes into this. So I have to ask again, is it too slow to depopulate? Is that what's meant? It is high time that half of the reasoning returned to the budget and that the cyclical charge was removed. I'm waiting for the depreciation rules to come into place again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1021	Others have not asked for the floor for case No. Six, seven, eight. [[Footage, see page 2208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1035	The current system of differentiated employer fees has been approved by ESA until 31 December 2003. The reason for the scheme is the varying transport costs in ours, to say the same, uneven and long-range countries. Document No Eight proposals we are now examining are based on uncertainties related to a necessary extension of the current regime after 2003. The ESA Regional Aid Facility provided the basis for the current scheme until 31 December 2006. The Ministry assumes that the current system will continue beyond 31 December 2003. However, it has been acknowledged that it should still be demonstrated that the business community has transport costs that exceed the benefit of a reduced employer’s fee. To this end, both the Committee and the Government agree that the present system is appropriate. Therefore, the Committee also agrees with the review currently being carried out by the Ministry with a view to the continuation of the scheme. Yes, so positive it is to deal with Document No. 8:32, and the Committee shall make a clear and unambiguous statement in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1044	This is a unanimous position, and we are pleased with it as fellow proposers. But it is important to link a few comments to it, because there is nevertheless an uncertainty related to the conclusion drawn here by the Government, to which the Storting subscribes. The employer’s fee is a very central tool in Norwegian district and industrial policy and has worked very well over the years. To me, the fact that the ESA – the EU monitoring body – is committed to this and does not take into account the national considerations necessary in Norway, both from the point of view of distance, departure and climate, is very incomprehensible. What has now been achieved is an agreement until 2003, and there is a likelihood that this will continue until 2006. What happens after 2006 is still unclear. That means you've had a break for a few years to come. The differentiated employer’s fee that Norway has is a very good and accurate tool for housing and industrial development in the northernmost parts of Norway, especially. This means that we are happy that the Storting now – and the Government – is doing a job that ensures this fee for a while to come. Nevertheless, in view of all these bureaucrats down in Brussels who are running and doing all sorts of strange things they shouldn't have been doing, I don't feel sure that they won't be adding up to this charge again. I hope that from the Norwegian side the necessary initiatives will be taken to ensure that evidence comes to the table as to why this differentiation in the employer’s fee is necessary, and that in this way we can ensure that this means of regional policy can continue even after 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1051	There is a unanimous position today, and it is not necessary to link the very long comments to this. However, like previous speakers, I would like to make it clear that there is every reason to be unsure about the future of the employer's fee. Just this type of scheme is under strong pressure in the EU, and several of the countries that have had schemes similar to the differentiated Norwegian employer’s fee are in a situation where they operate and look for other schemes. When the EEA Agreement was adopted in its time, it was clarified by all the parties to the EEA Agreement that the employer’s fee was not part of the EEA legislation and would not be affected by the EEA Agreement. We now see that it was repressively wrong. As in a number of other areas, the result has been different from what the EEA trailer said. I agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that it is essential that developments in this area be closely monitored in the future. Unlike Djupedal, however, I believe that you should not start looking at alternative solutions. On the other hand, as everyone in this Chamber has said, it must be pointed out that the employer’s fee is part of the Norwegian tax system which will not be accepted at all. We have had to comply with one sentence – that's once too much, in my opinion. With the importance of a differentiated employer’s fee for district policy and for the development of areas that benefit from a low employer’s fee, we simply cannot afford to lose this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1072	As I have seen Document No. 8:40, the main aim of the proposers is to ensure the orderly and thorough treatment of tax change cases. The setting indicates that the Committee would like a good, thorough and defence process rather than a rapid process where the time limit is the most important. This could mean that a new tax system is not operational until 1 January 2003. The Committee sees it as the best solution for the Government to come forward with a communication to the Grand Duchy on the main principle of tax change. Through such a procedure, we can also ensure a good process in which both the professional community and the business community can make important contributions and assessments. In the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre's Parties, it is called inter alia: in point 12, on a new system of taxation of entrepreneurial and capital income: ‘The parties agree that this tax reform should be based on the following principles:a. a fairer distributionb. neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and activity. an effective taxation of capital income. an approximation between the taxation of capital and labour so that the divisional model is thus phased out. The transitional dividend tax falls away from the transition to the new tax system for 2002.» Since the Committee agrees that the process should start with a message to the Storting on how to follow up these main principles, the majority have not gone into single elements in the matter, except a reference to the so-called KAF model. The reason for this comment is that the model has been mentioned in the national budget, St.meld. No 1 for 2000-2001. Whether the KAF model says that they see weaknesses in such a model in relation to the important premise that a new tax system should stimulate value creation and facilitate innovation, so that Norway becomes attractive both for establishment and for profitable enterprises. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I find it otherwise necessary with a few clarifications. Firstly, it is quite clear that the Christian People's Party is behind the principle of green taxes. When we do not vote in favour of the minority proposal before us, it is because we are unsure whether this matter is the right place to get a good start on this important principle. Secondly, I would like to stress that the temporary nature of the exchange tax is clear both in the budget agreement and in comments on the budgetary position. The requirement was for the replacement tax to be abolished by the introduction of the new tax system from 2002. When this introduction now appears to be postponed for a year, the ratio of the liquidation of the temporary exchange tax will become a matter of resolving the 2002 tax regime. I am very pleased with the broad agreement to spend a little more time on this important work. It will give us entirely different possibilities for a thorough dialogue with and good performances and assessments from both professional and business life. Hopefully, this will also lead to a broad political foundation for the new tax system in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1104	Over the course of several years, the 1992 tax compromise has been undermined and undermined by a decision by a number of large numbers. Thus, the relationship between tax and labour income and taxes on industrial and capital income has become skewer and skewer. In the last state budget, the Government seized this and proposed a tightening of the taxation of food and capital, among other things. through the imposition of dividend tax on the recipient’s hand. In its presentation, the Government acknowledged that the proposal for dividend tax, as proposed, had some weaknesses — weaknesses in the sense that if it were to be a permanent scheme in its present form, one could, among other things. see some possibilities for tax adjustments that could provide an unfortunate financial structure for companies over time. In particular, on this basis, the Government announced that, in the context of the next year’s government budget, it would assess the current form of dividend tax and assess the introduction of tax changes that would provide a tax system that would better accommodate more equitable distribution and greater efficiency and neutrality in tax settlement. In this regard, the Government explained in the proposition that it assessed an alternative model of increased tax on capital income. The model included the introduction of a progressive element also in the capital tax because the return in addition to the normal return could be taxed slightly higher. In the context of the budgetary agreement, it was agreed that the Government should present a proposal for a new system of taxation of income from business and capital in the context of the next year's budget and that this tax reform should be based on four principles, as previously referred to by the rapporteur. After the budgetary procedure, there has been a strong desire for a broader debate before the introduction of a new tax system, which is also reflected in the proposal by the representatives of the public at large, Foss and Burnde. The working party can also see that there are advantages in being more flexible in terms of the time horizon for the treatment of what could become a major tax reform. And it would be tragic if an important tax reform and tax debate were drowned in a heated procedural debate. We therefore agree that it may be desirable to deal with the notified tax changes in the form of a notification and to use the time necessary to ensure that stakeholders are not left with a feeling of overrun.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1117	It's very tempting already to get into a tax debate. I will try not to do so, but rather relate to the principles surrounding the importance of a broad, comprehensive tax debate in this house. In the course of the budgetary work during the autumn and even after the budgetary agreement was concluded, it was not difficult to record significant disagreements in the view of taxation between the settlement partners. Already in the debate that followed the budgetary conciliation, there was an obvious gap in the views of the Labour Party and, in particular, the Christian People's Party. It makes it clear to me that the consensus that appeared in the budget agreement is very fragile and based on a far from discussed discussion about where you really want to go with the Norwegian tax system. I think it is quite accommodating when the main point of the need for a review, as mentioned by the rapporteur, is a fairer distribution. That term has gradually become so worn out. It has been the tone-setting, superlative concept, especially in social-democratic thinking, throughout the post-war period. That means that we have had a half-century debate where the starting point for taxation has been a fairer distribution, without in the half-century one has managed to arrive at a model or solution that is consistent with the expression a fairer distribution, and that at a time when the same social democracy itself has governed the nation, mainly throughout the period. I think that's the biggest paradox. If you think you want a tax system where fair distribution should not only be the slogan, but actually permeate the entire tax system, you get it. It's a long way away, in my opinion. What's more fair distribution? It is also an important debate to take. The term is so worn out that you don't know what it really means. In any case, it must be clear that all the work related to the 1992 tax reform has gradually been undermined, because we have now got back into the tax system the progress that was then removed. There has been a greater difference between capital taxation and income taxes, but once again one sees the thinking of social democracy, as Britt Hildeng just explained, namely that this took control of the government by tightening up taxation. It's the same system all the time. One never hears of how to think and imagine solutions where the tax system can change to make it easier to tax. Then you also have to bring into the debate what tax revenue is actually going to cover. What should the public sector be responsible for financing on behalf of the population? I think that is also an important part of the debate. There has to be greater consistency with what people see as the basis for why they pay taxes, and then the willingness to pay comes in much, much stronger than today. The crucial factor for the future treatment of this must be that we do not come into the same situation as we did in the autumn, where the VAT reform was directly linked to the budget. This was an unsustainable situation in my opinion, because the discussion about the entire VAT base and the VAT system was not cleared, based on the need to balance the budget. We see that this has caused significant complications in retrospect. There has been a lot of disagreement, a lot of progress related to the changes that were adopted on the VAT side, and there have been several attempts at rematches, natural attempts at rematches, ask me. We can't get into the same situation when we're going to go through such an important issue as a tax system is. It is therefore essential that the presentation of a new tax system be completely disconnected from the budget procedure of the harvest and in no way linked, because it will lead us into an impossible debate where we will again be in a balancing debate. That's not what we deserve when we're going to discuss such important questions. In any case, we have at least reached a level where we have reached a point of saturation of tax will both in business and in the population. It should at least mean that we have to look at a flat tax system at a lower level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1132	The proposal now under discussion, by myself and the representative, Mr Brende, is based solely on the consideration of the tax matter. After all, the beginning was the budgetary agreement from last autumn, including this time, which provided for a rapid treatment of what might seem to be a very comprehensive tax reform. We found such rapid treatment irresponsible and contrary to Storting’s traditions – that is, not reporting, but right in a budget. It has two effects. One is that there will be no consultation rounds on it. Moreover, there is no possibility for the Storting to discuss the principles of a budgetary context, and it has the effect that budgetary settlements usually do not have the scope of greater consensus solutions, among others. In tax matters, as a kind of tradition, we'll say, from the 1990s. In other words, it was this procedure that we attacked, and therefore we proposed to get a notification procedure first. We saw that such a message should be made during the spring. For that we got two types of reactions from the government party. At first we got the reaction that it was completely unnecessary, because there were only some detailed changes that you wanted to make, the changes were not of the extent that it was necessary to submit them in a message. Then after a few weeks you went over to the opposite argument and said that there were so extensive changes you would suggest, that there wouldn't be time to put it in a message in ours, in April–May, for example. That was finally the Minister of Finance's explanation too. We're going to stick to this explanation, but I'm going to record that both of them have been part of the Workers' Party's external argument during the last few weeks. However, the conclusion has become enough a breach of the budgetary agreement, and I'm very pleased, because in that agreement, there was very much I wasn't happy about, so everything that can go away from it, we're getting to register as a little immoderate, but still better than what was originally agreed. What is now being put forward is, of course, that it is not included in the budget procedure of the harvest, but that a communication is being promoted that the Stortinge can normally deal with independently of the budget, and that one is allowed to do so, among other things. to carry out the hearings for which there is quite good experience, because in order to change the tax system, there is a tendency to be looking for tax holes, but for each close, there are at least two new ones. It may not be the representatives of the Storting the best to see through, it's not our expertise to find tax holes, but you know the world how many good lawyers we have outside this house that live by finding the holes and pointing at them in the suggestions as well. So it might be wise to take time to analyze tax proposals based on that model. This is why, among other things: important that this does not occur in haste compromises in late night hours with the form that budgetary settlements often take. I think that's actually a common interest if you're looking to create sustainable tax systems that have a fairly broad political base. This means, in this case, that possible tax changes cannot be addressed until 2002 and become effective from 2003, but it is good to live with. The unanswered question is the duration of the temporary dividend tax. I'm going to leave that to those parties to answer that are adherents of this kind of tax model. Let me, since a couple have affected the tax system itself, just give the following two comments: One can discuss the principles of fairness in taxation, but it has long been quite a broad consensus that it would have been an advantage if we had managed to approximate the rates of marginal taxation of earnings income at the rate of continuous taxation of capital income. The low-priced government of Bondevik provided a sample to analyse. They found that it made sense to go in that direction. What the sample was assigned to it was to do it within a province-neutral framework. I think that'll be difficult. It was impossible even when we carried out the 1992 tax reform. I think you should look at the same thing in this context. But what has happened since 1992 is that there has been an increase in the difference between the two tax rates by increasing the marginal tax on some higher income. However, the Labour Party has remained firm throughout this ageing period on the principle of not raising the 28th rate for less earnings and for capital income. I think that's wise. In the meantime, we've seen that other countries are actually going the other way, not up this tax rate, but down. In a few years – two to three, as far as I am informed – Germany has to lower its rate of capital income to 25, which is now around 32. It was, in fact, identical to the proposal put forward by the Right in the examination of the 1992 tax reform. But this time it happens in Germany and under the control of a social democratic government. In the case of the so-called KAF model, an idea to tax the profits progressively – the better an enterprise does, the more it will pay in percentage to the common fund – is to say that we already have that model in this position and in the budget position last year, taken a sharp distance from, for two reasons. Firstly, because it is very bad business policy to punish companies that do well. In the new economy, we typically see a lot of companies trying out. Many companies end up, but some succeed. And when they succeed, they really succeed. There is no reason to have a tax system that sends such companies to Sweden or other countries where you do not have this type of tax model and where you do not have a property tax on the model we have. This would be very devastating if you were to promote these types of companies, which the new economy – if we were to call it that – has had some successful examples of. My second reason is that this type of model – the KAF model, as mentioned here – is an open door for circumvention. There are many, many opportunities to influence equity, fragmentation of companies, etc., which makes it a huge invitation to adjustments. So it should be analysed very thoroughly. If you want to disagree with me at the first point – that is, if you want to treat companies that are going well, extra hard, as a kind of punishment for doing well – you should at least consider whether this model is not exactly a very open possibility of circumvention. And those who have the opportunity to get around are the companies that have the most resources. So once again, we can experience that small companies that do well become the ones that are being punished, as opposed to large units in the same industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1154	This case also has its background in an agreement on the last year's state budget for which the Right wants a rematch. I will not go into whether this was a wise part of the budget agreement. But at least what's pretty obvious is that the Right wants this case up again because you want taxes to be a central part of the election campaign. That is quite legitimate. But if you ignore the purely party-egotic considerations and see what this is actually about, it's about a premise that's given for a whole new tax reform. Considering the process ahead of the 1992 tax reform, it was a very comprehensive process over many years. What has been proposed in the budgetary agreement is a tax reform of a very large extent, which has a speed that is totally irresponsible. So they thought this would be done from next year. Pieces of such a comprehensive tax system were to be presented to the Stortinget and have an impact, I guess, from 2002. It is in itself a very irresponsible form of treatment. What we have in Stortinget repeatedly is the kind of fight we're still getting, because it keeps showing up new tax holes. There are a lot of reasons to look at our tax system. Not least, there is great injustice in our tax system that should be corrected for the better. But if you want to create a tax system that is fairer, not least with regard to taxation of capital and labour, it obviously requires that you have the time to achieve the goals set. That means that I perceive the rate that it's tried to add up here, as completely irresponsible. This will mean that we will have a little bit of a tax reform that, of course, will be so deficient that there will be food for all sorts of tax lawyers, and that will, in turn, cause many new holes and new problems. SV does not disagree that we are going to review the 1992 tax reform. And we've never really been behind it either. Not least this, which is about justice in the tax system, is for SV totally central. But if we are to achieve that, it requires a longer consultation round. Extensive investigations are required to achieve the desired objectives. This means that, just to take a small example, we need to address the whole question of green taxation, which is not included in the premise for this tax reform. However, looking at a previous debate today on a presentation of the Nordic Council of Ministers' strategy on how to implement new environmental things in the Nordic region, it means that if you do not include the green tax also in the business world, it will initially be a lack of reform. In the future, there is every reason to believe that a substantial part of business taxation will not be direct income taxation, but green taxation to shift consumption in a more environmentally sound direction. And that's just to take one example of which premises aren't here, but that obviously have to go in. Everything that goes on environmental taxes, everything that goes on taxes in general, which also businesses have to pay, is not included in the premiums. That means that you have the choice of either creating a small reform that is minimized, which means that you really don't change very much on the tax system, or you have that variant to say that this is actually impossible. And I encourage the Ministry of Finance to choose that variant. That means that this budget deal, which is made in a late night hour, and which is not necessarily very well designed, as other matters the Storting have dealt with, needs longer time. What is also important, as said by the representative from the Right, is that on such issues as this, in fact, there is a certain point to have the widest possible basis in the Stortinget. And that means that a comprehensive investigation and treatment of this matter is necessary if we are to achieve the objectives that SV also partly agree with in relation to some of these premises. Only a small additional amount on the share tax introduced from this year onwards. The main weakness of the 1992 reform was the provision of tax offices for shareholders. Fortunately, after eight-nine years of SV struggle, the Ministry of Finance has realized that this was unreasonable, and the majority of the population have also adopted a change for this year of income. Now it is signaled that this should be removed for the benefit of a more unclear model. And let me say for once that the representative from the Right has a good point, because the model that is suggested here is, in my opinion, not very good. On the other hand, taxation on the shareholder’s hand, which has now been introduced, is a very accurate tax model. So it hits exactly the people we want to meet. Over 90 pst. of the dividend in Norway, it is the 10 pst. the richest to receive. If one is concerned with justice in the tax system, taxation of dividends is the most accurate model of withdrawing money from those who should have contributed better. And that means it has a very good social profile. That means that this premise in this budgetary agreement is very unfortunate, and I would also strongly encourage the Minister of Finance to look at whether not all that he has said over the last year about why tax on dividends is right, is also continued in this new tax settlement – or what one might want. We, together with the Left, have put forward a proposal that goes on this with green taxation, and I am referring to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1169	Mr Djupedal made the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1188	The complete absence of driving rules for international monetary flows has become a significant problem for the stability of the world economy and the ability of nations to pursue independent policies. This is one of the most visible features of international capitalism that has grown particularly in the last two decades – money in flow, money not as a payment for trade or investment, but large sums that cross borders to collect profits in currency, interest or other securities fluctuations. This is not money that contributes to the creation of value or to the positive effects on nations, but speculative capital that has one purpose: to go where the expectations of profit are greater. The reason why this has become a significant stability problem is that it has such an incredible scale. The last numbers I've found -- with any reservations -- are $1,600 billion a day. Anyway, the scale is pretty incredible. This extent is so unimaginable that it is possible even for strong nations that have their household in order, to be forced to kneel if these cash flows come into motion. We've seen this in a number of places in the world in recent years. When speculators attack, even the strongest currency must bow below. The main importance of these cross-border transactions is speculative. That means they're not looking for long-term, but short-term. It's also said that almost half of these large sums go back and forth across borders in 48 hours. It is this game that is a threat to democracy – where the closed governance of financial corporations has a greater influence on the future of a country than both governments and parliaments. This has grown particularly in the last two decades after the neoliberal revolution of the 1980s with Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan at the head, and here at home also Kåre Willoch, when all restrictions on capital movements were gradually abolished. It's this thing that's made the volume so fast over the last two decades. For the industrialized countries, speculative capitalism has caused considerable problems. In Norway, we saw this most clearly in the autumn of 1998, when both Norwegian and international financial acrobats started a large-scale sale of Norwegian currency in anticipation of a profit, which came a little later. This left us with an interest rate jump that we are still struggling with, and it brought us a tightening in the state budget that autumn, which was probably only the right side of Norwegian policy. We have seen the same pattern in many other industrialised countries, perhaps especially in England, which is the most famous example, where the pound was squeezed out of EU currency cooperation in 1992 with unimaginable gains for speculators as a result. We've also seen it in Sweden, we've seen it in Denmark, and we've seen it in many other industrialized countries in Europe. Norway had to give up its fixed-rate regime in December 1992. This was among other things: conditional on a aftermath after the raid against the English pound, an operation that made George Soro's heroic famous – the man who started the raid and who later hoarded in the biggest win. George Soros said in this regard, ‘If a man like me can thin a currency, it’s because something in the system is perverted.’ The later president of France, Jacques Chirac, said in this connection that these speculation flows were the AIDSs of the world economy. Millions of people have to pay the price of speculation, with unemployment, interest rate increases, inflation and government spending cuts as a result. But developing countries are hit even harder, both because they are small beneficiaries of long-term investment and because they are limited participants in international trade. It means less financial strength to be able to withstand attacks from these large cash flows, and, perhaps most importantly, limited opportunities to offer stability and prosperity to its citizens. In this game, as I said, there are many losers and only a few winners. After the Second World War, two institutions were built to relieve countries of financial disorder and contribute to economic growth — the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Both institutions are dominated by traditional liberalist thinking and have not contributed to the growth and progress of the countries they are set to help. Rather, they have centered poverty and debt, and they have also been exporters of the political mindset that has shaped the United States and not least our part of the world. The clearest expression of this is that the World Bank’s recent vice-chancellor, Joseph Stiglitz, who recently visited Sweden and launched the following broad-side against the economists in these institutions: these are third-rate economists from first-rate universities. And he actually went much further, he said that these economists, who are going to give advice to poor developing countries, have more understanding of five-star hotels in the countries they visit than in the villages there. The criticism of these institutions is massive from a variety of teams, in fact as different as the Financial Times and the United Nations. For the lessons learned from the crises of these institutions – in Southeast Asia, Brazil, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia and southern Africa – these countries have not come out of the crisis, but have, rather, strengthened it. Furthermore, these two institutions have rightly been criticized for being freed from democracy by the fact that in many cases the governors of the central bank sitting there are independent of the governments of their country and therefore do not have to be held accountable for their recommendations. More and more people now see the need for regulation of international money flows, simply because they do not benefit individuals, businesses or nations. And more proposals have been launched. The most mentioned is the so-called Tobin tax and reforms within the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Tobin tax is a charge that is intended to cover all cross-border transactions in order to mitigate the speed of cash flows – simply a drop in speed. The proposal has gradually received broad international support at the verbal level – most recently expressed to me by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Stortinget’s Question Time a few weeks ago. The challenge will be to raise the proposal in international organisations. It is not difficult to find counter-conceptions against such a Tobin tax, and many of these counter-conceptions are also very relevant, but the option is to allow these large cash flows to undermine the stability of the world. Tobin himself thought that about half of the international cash flows would never be able to get to taxation, simply because there will always be some kind of smartness that will find a way to keep this out of the way. In itself, this cannot be an argument that Norway and other countries are not going ahead and are trying to realize this with some sand in the machinery to slow things down. Tobin himself suggested three purposes of such a charge, which is then intended for currency transactions: it should be like a bit of sand in the machinery, it would help to slow things down a little bit, and, not least importantly, he saw that this charge would finance the UN, which in itself is a very price-effective purpose. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund also need to be strongly reformed, both democratised and given content that does not reinforce the problems they are set to solve, but the opposite. One proposal is the establishment of a UN umbrella economic security council, which can better and more democratically take over part of these tasks. The UN Security Council is not currently assigned to this type of task. Another proposal, launched not least by Sweden's former Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson, is that an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations should be held to discuss how the world community should be able to bring some sand into the machinery to a greater extent than today and try to slow down the most harmful speculative cash flows. The UN initiative has also been taken in the context of the conference scheduled for 2002, entitled ‘Financial for Development’, which will also look at this Tobin fee under the leadership of former President Ernesto Zedillio of Mexico. Norway has a place in the Security Council during this period, and we are pleased about that. This place is primarily not intended to address this type of issue, but the Security Council may well be an arena for that too. Norway will thus be a natural country to take it up, simply because as a small nation, we have this possibility to a greater extent than other nations, which may have stronger ties. My challenge to the Norwegian government is, since this has expressed itself several times positively about this charge and these cash flows and in substance, I think, agree with the analysis that I have now expressed, and that very many people in the world are very concerned about: How can our government and Norway as a nation go ahead in trying to indicate a way that makes the world not just completely open to speculators? Because it's the most harmful move. It cements poverty, it cements unemployment, it cements a lack of space for action, and, most importantly, it cements an unfair world that not only we in the western part of the world notice, but perhaps especially the developing countries, which are coming deeper into poverty and debt, and not out of the debt crisis they are now in. My challenge to the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Norwegian Government, is that these questions are raised in all international bodies in which Norway has a voice, and my hope is that the Minister of Finance will respond positively in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1228	Let me first say that I share the desire of the representative, Mr Djupedal, to ensure the ability of nations to achieve a stable economic development. A prerequisite for achieving this is for countries to pursue sound and long-term economic policies. But that is not always enough, and at the same time, there is a need to look at the functioning of international financial markets. Work on establishing systems to prevent international financial crises is important. This is particularly true for developing countries. A financial and monetary crisis could put economic developments in a country back several years in time. It's speeding up, among other things. countries in Latin America in the 1980s and in Asia in the 1990s. Studies show that it is uncertain whether monetary markets will become more stable if a global currency charge is introduced. In this case, such a charge would have to be imposed in all countries of some importance, including in non-OECD countries. The value of actors by circumventing the levy will be significant and there will be strong motivation to move currency trading to countries that are not subject to the levy. Experience has shown that the introduction of a global currency charge can be difficult to obtain. If a proposal to introduce a currency charge is to be realistic, the major actors such as the United States and the EU must also support the proposal. I would like to stress that the Government considers it irrelevant for Norway to impose a levy on currency transactions on a one-sided basis. There are several issues that need to be resolved before a charge on foreign exchange transactions can be imposed. The Government considers that an investigation into the issue of global taxation of currency transactions should be carried out. Properly designed, such a charge can help to promote stability in the currency markets while being an important source of funding for development measures, etc. Canada submitted a proposal to study the impact of a charge on foreign exchange transactions at a preparatory meeting in front of the five-year review of the UN Social Summit last year. From the Norwegian side, we were prepared to support this proposal, which was, however, rejected by, among others. heavy OECD country. During the preparations for the United Nations High Level Conference on Financing and Development in 2002, this issue may be raised again. Norway will also be ready to support a proposal to address the impact of a charge on currency transactions. This high-level conference may also be a topical area for debate on other reform proposals of the type of representative named Djupedal. I believe that the UN can be a very useful forum for discussing economic and trade issues in order to contribute to a broader understanding of these issues. On the other hand, I believe that an economic security council is not necessarily an appropriate solution. The decision-making authority should remain within the institutions responsible for the instruments, including the IMF and the World Bank. These institutions are democratic. In the IMF and the World Bank, all Member States are represented in the Governing Board – either alone or together with a group of Member States on the basis of their economic weight, but matters are usually discussed between the representatives of the Member States with a view to creating a consensus. In the WTO, decisions require consensus, i.e.: accession by all Member States. The WTO Agreement is a international agreement, and decisions are taken by consensus. Membership thus entails legally binding obligations and rights. Together, Member States monitor compliance with comprehensive international trade legislation. It is in the interests of all countries to have a well-functioning trading system. In particular, it is an advantage for small countries that the WTO has strengthened legislation and a common dispute resolution system. It may be difficult to realistically place such a trading system under the United Nations. It is also not a matter of changing the independent nature of organisations among WTO members. Several initiatives have been taken to reform the international financial institutions and improve the functioning of financial markets. Norway itself is well advanced in the implementation of international supervisory and regulatory standards in the financial sector. The Government also attaches great importance to actively working in the international forums for joint actions that can limit and prevent financial crises internationally. With regard to the question of these issues raised by the representative Djupedal in the Security Council, the Government’s position is that this is not a suitable forum for this type of issue. Many of the monetary crises that have occurred, among others: However, in developing countries, there has also been a link between economic policies that have not been sustainable. To a large extent, it will be up to countries themselves to pursue sound economic policies that provide a basis for stable economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1259	Let me highlight a few points in relation to what the Minister of Finance is now saying. I am pleased that he says that Norway is for such a fee to be investigated. I agree that imposing a charge on a national basis for Norway has obvious shadow pages and does not have the international impact that such a charge is intended to have. What is important, and as I understood the Minister of Finance now saying, is that Norway will go ahead in trying to get this to travel internationally and support the initiatives taken internationally. I'm glad. I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance says that parts of these institutions may need to be reformed. It's possible I'm pulling what he said, too far, but I'm choosing to do it, because they're obviously made for a different time than the time we're in. What I am not as excited about, however, is that he says that the Security Council is not an arena for this. Of course, I share the analysis that the Security Council has so far not been the venue for this kind of discussion. Of course, the background that the Security Council is as it is is is not financial crises of this magnitude that we are talking about here either. Nevertheless, I think that is right, because many initiatives have been taken in the United Nations system to raise these kinds of issues on the agenda, but it is taken by others other than the Security Council, it is taken up by subcommittees and various UN agencies. I believe that the extent of the currency transaction and speculation that we are seeing has become so extensive that the only worldwide democratic organisation we actually have, that is, the United Nations, is the body to raise this question. If I do not want to take it up in the Security Council, I would strongly urge the members of the Government to take it up in informal discussions to assess whether this could actually be a topic – if you do not address it directly in the Security Council, that you take it up in an adjoining conversation before you meet in the Council as such. What is true, of course, is that this as SV is now addressing today, will not help countries in deep financial disorder. Neither the Tobin tax nor any other proposal will remedy a financial crisis caused primarily by entirely different circumstances or by a dramatic fall in the value of the currency. In this way, the Tobin fee or other charges will not have any value at all, that is correct. But at the same time, it is a goal to slow down the most speculative flows of money that span national borders in a short time and which in itself create instability and difficult governance conditions for nations. And especially for the very poorest nations, which have little financial strength, little is involved in international trade in goods, and initially may not have the national institutions to resist such pressure, such a charge can work very positively. I choose to interpret the Minister of Finance as saying that he was essentially in favour of the intentions that were in my interpellation. I hope then that the government actually goes on with this. And I would strongly encourage that informally linked to the Security Council also addresses these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1270	I just want to confirm that the representative understood me correctly when he realized that I agreed with the basic intention of the interpellation, that it was important to investigate the possibility of such a fee in order to be able to assess the positive effects it could have on both speculation and the possibilities of financing international institutions. That is why I think it is also important that we establish exactly which forum the debate is going to take place. It's kind of going to be a practical question. However, the intention to have an international assessment of whether there is a basis for accepting such a charge will be followed up by the Government, as it has already done through its clear signals internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1275	Today, the Attac Department of Norway, an organisation with concrete objectives of introducing taxes on speculative currency transactions, abolishing tax havens, preventing the use of public pension funds for speculative purposes, and eliminating the debt of the poor countries. We should welcome this initiative and hope that it will receive the broad political support it deserves. The construction of the Nordic welfare communities is based on a compromise between labour and capital, such as: is expressed through a policy regulation of the market, so that the inhumane aspects of unimpeded market management are stopped. Today, we are facing the same challenges, but worldwide. The globalised economy, together with the globalised information and communication society, has enormous opportunities to ensure a good life for the entire population of the earth. However, the realization of such opportunities requires action and political intervention against capital forces and market governance. In this context, national instruments and governance bodies are no longer sufficient for the necessary regulation. The introduction of a Tobin tax through the UN is a step in the right direction and should be followed up by international cooperation and influence. At the same time, however, we should be aware of developments in our own country. The availability of capital is high through large public funds, pension funds and insurance funds. Similar funds in international contexts are increasingly used as risk and speculative capital, such as: causes uncertainty about future pensions. It is not by chance that the international trade union movement is very committed to this development. In Norway, we have until now had prudent management of this type of capital, just for welfare policy reasons. With an increasingly strong international pressure on moving capital, it is important that we raise this cautious line further, and ally ourselves with international forces that will ensure a secure framework for the future management of our insurance and pension funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1288	Today’s interpellation is a contribution to the debate on the negative consequences of globalisation and market liberalism. This debate puts us in a positive position and opens up. The demonstrations we have seen in recent years in connection with meetings in both the WTO and the G-7, in Seattle, Prague, Cologne and now last in Davos, show that these are movements and meanings we have to take seriously. Civil society requires counterpower and to be heard. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take part in this debate, because it focuses on what we are concerned about: international solidarity and a global fight against poverty. At the same time, it is important that the tools we use to achieve these objectives are both nuanced and holistic, have international support and are feasible in practice. Currency speculation leads to a huge flow of money daily across the continent, and characterizes in many ways egoism in systems. Globalisation and market liberalism combined with rapid technology developments are indicative of the differences between poor and rich. The challenges are therefore clear, but the solutions are, after all, not less frequent. There is therefore a need to go a little deeper into the nuances and problematize around the consequences of globalisation and international currency currents. In this context, we cannot escape the counter-movement of Attac. The movement has been partially discussed and has clear objectives. It is one of the fastest growing people's movements in Europe and is mainly embracing young people. The disadvantage of movement is that it is so broad, and it is composed in a loose and non-committal manner. Should a situation arise in which Attac's objectives are met, paradoxically, it would require international cooperation and mobilization of a dimension that we have hardly seen yet. The movement models are that they represent a role as counter-power and thus contribute to creating an important debate that can contribute to the progress of the process. The funny thing is, paradoxically, that the Nobel Prize winner himself, James Tobin, takes a distance from Attac's way of using his name and theory. When it comes to the Tobin levy, a global introduction would act as a stabilising and limiting measure of short-term capital positions. At the same time, such a charge will pose many practical challenges. Norwegian Security Council place must be used actively. Here we can reach out and have a dialogue with the largest countries in both the EU and G-7. This is important to get an informal dialogue. Nevertheless, questions may be asked whether the Security Council is the most appropriate body to address this type of reform proposal. My main point, however, is that Norway has to work actively on these issues in the international forums where it is the most sensible, with a view to achieving a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1307	1978 was the year when Tobin launched the idea of such a tax, where the purpose was to introduce a tax on so-called short-term speculation. Some of the problem of introducing a so-called tax or tax on currency transactions lies in the borderline – to be able to differentiate between what is pure speculation and what is not. A significant proportion of currency transactions worldwide are related to trade between nations and trade between enterprises in a highly globalised world. I can't see that it would be useful for any nation to add an extra tax wedge or an extra tax burden to international trade, which one has actually helped to develop into what it is. In addition, much of this is not necessarily a purely currency speculation; it is also a capital shift – capital that is necessarily shifted to where it yields better returns. And of course, it's to nations or companies where you want to invest the capital to get more for it. I've been very hurt to see, and I haven't heard anyone make any arguments in relation to such a separation – if that's the pure currency speculation you're going to live to. And then you're in the middle of a difficult debate about the appropriateness of it. Even if you were to use a tax or a tax as a means of preventing currency speculation or currency transactions, I don't think you would be able to do that, although the tax is never so global, and even if it's introduced into all nations with the same intention. In any case, the reality is that such a tax will be considered to be a tax wedge, which is going to be priced at risk, and it will be taken into account within the ordinary speculation, which is still going to happen. It has been claimed that such a charge should be imposed in order to use any resulting amounts, for example: to help the developing countries out of a disaster. The intention around it is too good, and one can certainly discuss in many forums how to do something about the situation of developing countries and entry into free trade areas, etc. But then, above all, one must be willing to take that debate, and then the same countries must end with their double morale in relation to just keeping the developing countries outside free trade areas through different customs duties and other systems, and help them actually to enter the economic arena. I think that is a completely different debate than the debate on the introduction of a currency transaction tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1318	This question has been discussed on a number of occasions in the past, and it is probably not a coincidence that this interpellation is coming up today, as it is just today that the Attac organization is organizing itself in Norway. There we have seen the funny thing that parts of the Norwegian political environment have tried to stick to this organisation. The Labour Party has wanted to do so, possibly indicated by Göran Persson's example from Sweden. I must say that I don’t think Sørfonn was particularly tough in this area either. I think that's all reason to say that the ideas that Attac stands for are not good ideas. They are not least an attack on free trade, which is one of the clear demands we are now facing from the Third World. Therefore, this is in many ways a supporter of the protectionism of the developed part of the world. Therefore, when Attac is formed today, a campaign called ‘Motatac’, supported by the Right, is also being launched – based on the Young Right – to put the demands of the developing countries much more clearly on the agenda than the left side of Norway is willing to do. So one of the requirements they have, but only one of them, is this Tobin tax, which we've discussed before. There's hardly any good idea, to say it carefully. It is not that a tax, other than in very specific cases, can successfully cover what is the underlying problem that leads to currency speculation, namely that there is an imbalance in the economy. I know that if it's cold, there's a lot of people who think it's the thermometer that's to blame, but normally it's not. Of course, in some cases it may work, but you have to be aware that it can also reinforce a problem at the moment you go over thresholds that make the tax itself no longer work. But no matter what one discusses theoretically – and that’s well in the area SV usually thrives best, it’s been a long time since they’ve been there, but these are probably in many ways to come back to old times, there’s one thing – is the question: Is this possible to get into practice? And everyone knows very well that it isn't. Large parts of the world say no, among other things. The Americans say no, and you can't do anything but in the world context. Neither has the government intended to take this seriously, because if it had, this would of course have been one of the things that Jagland talked to Colin Powell about when he was in the United States, but he wisely spent his time talking about things that belong to the world of reality. That's why I think you can just as easily put this in the drawer as last time. I sincerely hope that an important task in the Security Council will not be charged with spending time on such Norwegian internal debates as this. I would like the Workers' Party to have had a little more backbone to say it outright when an idea is bad, but you're still trying to hang on to it half way because you don't have the courage to hang out with that organisation. A little more spine, and that one had followed up in words what one does in practice, had been welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1333	Fortunately, today's debate is not entirely following the traditional tracks that we have seen in the past. In May 1994, Johan J. Jakobsen promoted a proposal recommending the Government to contact the other Nordic countries in order to obtain international measures against currency speculation. That case was followed up in the spring of 1995 during the treatment of St.meld. No 26 for 1994-95, and in April 1995 the Central Government of the Centre also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland asking for the same. The answer that came from the Prime Minister at the time was not particularly uplifting. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party, primarily by Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland, but also the Minister of Finance and the speakers from the Labour Party who have had orders here today, seems to have taken a somewhat more open and offensive view on the issue of the introduction of an international levy on currency transactions. We have seen many examples of the dramatic effects currency speculation can have on some countries' economies. It's pretty pathetic to listen to the Right Leader's argument in this case, when it's claimed that large parts of the world say no. Of course, large parts of the world say no, because there are politicians like Jan Petersen in absolutely every country, politicians who are in favour of free trade and against regulating the unfortunate effects of currency transactions, of which we have seen many. On the other hand, serious financial journals, such as the Financial Times, have supported the use of capital control. Several of the prominent international political leaders do the same. There is a movement all over the world, in the political environments, and not least in popular uprisings, against the kind of effects that we now see of an ever-increasing speculation against the currency of some countries and short-term speculations with one single goal in mind: the greatest possible return on non-productive work. I'm not particularly surprised at the position of the Right and Advance Party, but I'm all the more surprised that the Workers' Party is moving, and that it can now look as if it's at least possible from the Norwegian side to get an engagement to get such a fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1344	A well-functioning market system requires a well-functioning regulatory system. Thinking that it is possible to have a free market economy without a modern and well-functioning regulation around such an economy, I cannot understand. It is only to look at how any market economy will always function, namely that operators will try to eliminate competition and thus monopolise the market. Therefore, a competitive regulation is needed. Now that we have increasingly received a global economy and competition, we are screaming for a global policy that can put the framework around it, and which ensures, not least, that we have real global competition, and that big capital is unable to monopolise in its fields. It is necessary to have a debate on these issues. Those who stand here fighting for a free market economy in the world without understanding the need to have a regulation, I honestly don't understand it all. I think it's necessary to build on the institutions that we have. They may be weak, there may be much wrong with them, but that's after all we have, and on which we can build. The U.N. and other global institutions can do a job here, and here I join what the Council of State said. For example, an important area of such a global policy that a global economy, at my discretion, requires. is a global competition regulation, but it may also be, as the interpellant has mentioned, a global tax to counteract what one might call an undesirable behaviour in the global economy. I think the idea of the so-called Tobin tax is going to be an academic thinking exercise on the way up to something that's operational. In that way, I think it's right to evaluate it and debate it. I don't think you have all the answers. I remember having a conversation a few years ago with former finance minister in Sweden Anne Wibble about this. She was, among other things, be aware of the share of this currency trade that took place within global groups and the difficulty of entering a single legal unit and of starting to charge transactions not carried out across borders, as indicated by the interpellant, but taking place in the tenths of a second on PCs internally within a legal unit. There's a lot of currency transactions going on, and it's unusually difficult to intervene here. At this stage, however, I am not concerned with rejecting or opposing ideas, but will stress the need to have a debate and look for good global taxation. Perhaps it has to be more environmental than regulating currency. So finally about the formation of organisation Attac in Norway. I have to say that I think it is intended to hear the Right Leader state what he is saying, when we know that both value-conservative and liberal forces are engaged in making Attac something that does not counteract world trade, but creates a global policy around world trade that ensures free competition and a free market economy, and not to go into counter-attacks against such an organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1362	It's a very important theme for this interpellation. We have had a huge increase in the internationalization of the economy and trade, both at good and at bad. The good thing is to increase trade, more cohesive countries and continents between and more openness in itself can contribute to democratic development and increase wealth in parts of the world that so absolutely need it. But there are also many negative consequences here. There is no doubt about capitalism and the market economy. Political governance and the interests of society both nationally and internationally remain absent. We see in many ways a political abdication. We experience currency speculations in several degrees, from short-term currency trading, where it is daily speculated by small changes in relative rates, to so-called 'driving' of a currency where there is speculation about major changes in a country's currency. I found it positive that an international movement focused on these challenges is now growing. I see that today a 60-year-old team and organisations meet to discuss a Norwegian department of Attac. One of Attac's main objectives is tax on speculative currency transactions by model of the so-called Tobin tax. The Labour Party supports such a tax, not least because it will be a major and important source of funding for the UN and to address the poverty challenge in the world. As was claimed in a leader's article in the French era Le Monde Diplomatique, which gave the kick-off to Attac, a fee of 0.1 pst. provide annual incomes of twice the annual amount needed to eradicate the worst poverty until the beginning of the next hundred years. The second motive of the tax is to counter destructive currency speculations. The treasure must seem stabilizing. A challenge – among many others – if one wants such a tax, is to avoid that the tax greatly limits trade between countries and long-term investments. A little tax of 0.1 pst. It is likely that there will be insufficient resources to prevent it from speculating in major changes in the currency of a country. A larger charge that would then be necessary to stop these speculations could also quickly affect cross-border trade and long-term investment. In other words, many challenges need to be solved, including: to bring all countries, but with the increasing focus and the commitment we are now seeing, it's my hope that we can manage to come up with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1379	The interpellation is very interesting, and I think the representative Djupedal has put his finger on a serious and thought-provoking problem. There is no simple solution to how to control the world economy; that is what is actually being debated today. One has to separate the terms a little bit. We have trade in goods, substance values, that require trade in money. It is necessary to secure currency, exchange rate security, when one is to export or import. One has to distinguish between pure currency speculation, so-called gearing, which allows to borrow twenty times the effort to speculate in currency, and ordinary trade in goods and services – when talking about charging, one has to distinguish between it and pure gearing, pure speculation. It's a regrettable fact, as I see it, and I think many people share my view, that the world economy is becoming more and more like a blue balloon that's inflated on computers, where the cash flows follow the sun around the world. When one of the exchanges closes, the next one opens. Obviously, when you can borrow twenty times the effort and use it on pure speculation and rule another country's economy, it's thought-provoking. It is clear that this, as the inter-pellant here points out, should be discussed under the auspices of the United Nations, and that it should be examined how to deal with it. There is no simple prescription. You can see the father in that, too. If this mouse-click blue balloon is cracking - what's going on? It's most important to think both ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1390	First, a comment on the so-called Tobin tax. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 43 for 1996-97 on reforms in the United Nations system, the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted in favour of the World Organisation seeking new sources of funding, and one of the measures proposed by the Committee was the very fee for foreign exchange transactions. It was also on the right, only the Progress Party was against. I have registered today that the Right no longer goes in for it. However, the Labour Party has worked for such a fee, or tax if you like, for many years, and on that basis I also want to welcome the new Attac organization to Norway, and believe that their international network is an important supporter in that work and also in the work of international economic driving rules more generally. International mandatory driving rules for the flows of capital in a globalised economy are a prerequisite for balancing the large differences in living conditions between groups, countries and regions and also for a functioning market economy. Here we might have to venture a little bit. Dithering between countries and developing countries requires inter alia: improved access for developing countries to international export markets and a systematic investment in agriculture and business. But at the same time we have to admit that, for example. African and European countries are so different from each other in terms of international trade that we are likely to have to work for compensation schemes for developing countries in the international trade regime, as well as for the transfer of skills and the fight against poverty. We know that technological development and globalisation in general cannot be reversed. It is also true that isolation has never brought any country out of poverty. On the contrary, trade ensures growth and sustainable development in each country, but requires international driving rules. And international democracy is too fragmented today. That is why we must also draw the debate we have today into a broader agenda, which includes trade, debt-laundering, aid, employee rights, environmental measures and financial management tools. The World Bank has changed its profile in recent years in a more social direction. Unfortunately, you cannot say that about the IMF, and it is important that we also make the same demands on the IMF. Finally, in the case of debt, which is also part of what Attac mentions, Norway has opted for unilateral measures, but let me stress that there are also the international measures that are important, including: the so-called HIPC initiative, Heavy Indebted Poor Countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1405	As has been said, this is one of several debates on economic development in the world community. On the other hand, the stability desired here will quickly prevent positive developments which, not least those countries with the greatest need for capital and trade, depend on. International trade is essential for developing countries. The need to be able to sell the products and services produced is, in fact, not only a matter of wealth, but often also a question of democratisation. We have seen that free trade and the market economy are essentially two sides of the same issue. The question then arises as to how much damage you are willing to impose on you with new taxes in this context internationally. The limit rise between speculation and non-speculation will be quite interesting. It's automatically characterizing all the short-term positions as speculation, I think you have to be very careful with. It is also exciting to see the assessment being made and the limit that is thus being drawn up between productive transactions, transactions based on productivity, and so-called non-productive transactions. Knowing what adjustments are made to the Norwegian tax regime, it is strange that a person has great confidence that such a charge will generate large revenues, which in itself will lead to increased development in some countries, especially in developing countries. It's probably more real to characterize the possibility that at best doubt. Thus, the majority now seems to put the desire for regulation and taxation higher than what would actually have to be the overall objective of stable and good development, namely a business life based on the need for, and which has, the robustness that a global market will actually require. Then it may be that fees and regulations may delay the necessary adjustments in the market, but removing them is rather doubtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1418	Let me first say to the representative Petersen, who I see is no longer present in the hall, that he must have stood up with an unimaginable shocking foot only today, for the husband of the grumpy post is fortunately seldom heard. I'm not going to comment very much on what he said, but just correct a few things, because he's obviously slept an hour, or he hasn't followed well enough lately. Because if you call this debate on how to find regulatory mechanisms, for an internal Norwegian debate, you obviously haven't followed much. This debate did not start in Norway, nor will it end in Norway. This debate is taking place in all Western countries; it is also taking place in large parts of the developing world, precisely because there are many in the world who are seeking to find regulatory mechanisms that will make the future at least look a little safer and a little more stable. I would urge the representative Petersen to listen a little bit more to his value-conservative party colleagues, like Kåre Willoch or Francis Sejerstedt, who all see the shadow pages of capitalism, shadow pages that are not about fair trade or honest investment, but which are simply about building on the most speculative growths of unregulated capitalism. So much about the representative Petersen. He essentially gets to keep his greed to himself, and then we're going to try to discuss what this is all about. What is positive about today's debate is that it has shown that there is a majority in this Chamber who are positive about finding regulatory mechanisms for how this can be done. The proposal on the Tobin fee is one proposal launched and favoured by the majority of the parties in this room. It is not a problem to see that there are many counter-conceptions against such a charge, but – just to correct something that was also said earlier by the representative Jensen and by others – this is not a charge that one has intended to differentiate between the purpose of an investment or a money transaction. It is primarily such that those who have a long-term interest in their investments and their money flows will be less affected, simply because the transaction is intended to be long-term and not short-term. So, more people have said that today, hopefully, there's going to be an interim government for Attac, and that's positive. Attac may then have a Norwegian farmer like what it has in many other European countries. Attac has a wide platform, and as a starting point, it is time to discuss and work together to find solutions for how to manage this in the future. And that's what this is all about, that many from many different parties, with many different political attitudes and positions, want to try to find some new governance, so maybe you can make sure that in the future it becomes a little bit fairer, a little bit better for the developing world, a little better for ourselves and a little bit more stability. And therefore, I must conclude by saying that it surprises me that the bourgeois parties in this Chamber are so totally opposed to it. This is actually also sound conservative thinking, namely to get control of the most speculative growth of capitalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1438	In the end, the government has made it clear from the time it joined, that it wants to get a global charge on currency transactions. I see today's debate as a clear support for that position. I think that's very positive. At the same time, I find that there is no one to impose a one-sided Norwegian fee. I think that's also a reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1445	Case No. So 11 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1451	We are then ready for voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1457	The President proposes that the presentation by the Minister of Labour and Administrative Affairs of the Stockholm meeting on 20 February 2001 on the Nordic Council of Ministers' strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region and in our neighbourhoods and on the follow-up to the strategy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1477	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible, imposing and enabling the municipalities to establish schemes to ensure the continuous development and maintenance of their competences by employees in the field of child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1581	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to include the follow-up to green tax reform in the forthcoming tax reform’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-01.ana.ud2425e1603	In case No.11 there is no voting theme.
