ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e79	The representatives of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Karin Andersen, Jan Simonsen and Gunhild Eyegen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Ola D. Glötvold as from 27 February and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave of the representative Ursula Evje as from 27 February and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the goods, for Akershus County André Kukkestad and for Hedmark County Ida Marie Løvlien, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.3. Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e130	André Kukkestad and Ida Marie Løvlien are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e135	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Grand Duchy's meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e140	I propose Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e147	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected. The representative of Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e152	On behalf of the representative Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I allow myself to submit a proposal on Norwegian initiatives to counteract the harmful effects of international capital mobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e157	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e167	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one main step of 10 minutes to each of the groups and to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the statements of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before we start the debate, the President will state that she has had a request from the Minister of Defence to provide some additional information relating to the statement to be debated. The President will propose that the Minister of Defence's request be complied with and that the Council of State be given the floor now to provide some additional information for the presentation. The debate will then take place after the adoption of the order. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e178	Since the presentation took place on 18 January, I have asked to make a brief statement saying something about the status, including the measures taken and the issues it has been most focused on during the week after the presentation was made. A causal link between the use of depleted uranium ammunition and health damage has still not been demonstrated. Extensive surveys have been carried out in many countries, both inside and outside NATO. There is therefore no reason to change the main content of my statement as it was given on 18 January – there is no basis for corrections. However, on the basis of the precautionary principle, and in order for the people concerned to feel safe, a health study is now being offered for all personnel who have served in international operations since 1 January 1990. This is according to what I promised in my statement. The studies will be very thorough, and the Cancer Register, the State Radiation Protection Agency, the State Institute for Public Health and the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work are involved in this work. The defence manager’s comprehensive action plan to follow up the personnel has been well received by all stakeholders, as I understand it. Active pilot studies in relevant areas of intervention are of particular importance. The Defence Manager has also decided to establish a health register which will be an important and decisive tool in the follow-up work. In order to ensure that this type of action is also reflected in normal routines, I have asked the head of defence to establish adequate health examinations before, at the end of and one year after the staff have completed international service. I have been informed that the staff who are going to work in KFOR 4 are satisfied with the information and measures that have been promised. Staff in Kosovo are also satisfied with the situation. It has been decided that the air measurements in the Norwegian region should be continued and that dose meters should be distributed to all personnel. I keep constantly informed about how these measures are being followed up. I have pointed out that the flow of information both within NATO and at home has not been good enough. This is critical, and the procedures are now being changed to ensure that all available information is communicated in advance and during an international operation. In recent weeks, there have been concerns about the possible occurrence and use of depleted uranium weapons in Norway. I repeat that it is not stored or produced DU ammunition in Norway. Also depleted uranium is not mounted as ballast on Norwegian military aircraft such as F-16 and C-130. I've been looking into it over the past few weeks, for example. storage of DU ammunition for allied aeroplanes may have occurred in the context of the COB Agreement. I haven't found any indications of that. DU ammunition has never been used by Norwegian forces or in our shooting areas. Nor are there any plans for the use of depleted uranium in our firing range either from Norwegian or allied sides. However, in a letter to the Chief of Defense of 16 February, I underlined that if questions about such use were ever to arise in connection with drills or test shootings, this would require political clearance. Similarly, all other types of ammunition that can be perceived as controversial or associated with a health hazard now or in the future. I have been asked if the depleted uranium may have been used outside the firing range. In the media there have been speculations about the violent explosions of our deserted coastal artillery. I can assure you that this is only about conventional explosives, even more powerful black than normal dynamite. Thus depleted uranium has never been used militaryly in Norwegian territory, either by Norwegian or Allied forces. I therefore consider it unlikely that there is a link between cancer cases among civil servants at the coastal artillery gates and radiation from depleted uranium. I also see with the greatest seriousness the very question of whether there is, or has been, increased cancer risk for employees at the forts. Maritime defence is now in the process of conducting extensive surveys to identify possible links between the working environment and disease. In addition, I refer to my reply to the representative Øyvind Korsberg in the Questionnaire on 31 January. I stress that the information about the possible presence of uranium-236 and plutonium in ammunition with depleted uranium was completely new to me, and to the Government for the rest, when it appeared in the media. It was also not possible to clarify what this information meant before I made my statement on 18 January. However, I do not see it as dramatic or critical that we have not previously been informed of the possibility that there could be uranium-236 and plutonium in depleted uranium. The incidences are so small that they have not had a significant impact on the radiation level of the DU ammunition. With equal amounts of depleted uranium and plutonium, the radiation from the plutonium will be a few hundred thousand times more intense than the radiation from the uranium. NATO has highlighted in a press release of 18 January 2001 that it is a few billionths of plutonium – even two hundred thousand times more intensity gives a very small radiation effect. However, we should not draw final conclusions until we have carried out further investigations. In a few days’ time, the World Health Organisation will present a report on depleted uranium and other heavy metal deposits in Kosovo. The report will include a risk assessment and – if necessary – proposals for measures to prevent the further exposure of these toxins. I attach great importance to this report in the further consideration of the question of depleted uranium. Finally, a few words on the issue of the repatriation of refugees from Kosovo. Our presence in the Balkans is primarily justified by the fact that we want to create a safe and secure living conditions for the local population. I have noticed that many have expressed concern about the situation of the Kosovo Albanian refugees – that it will be exacerbated in a situation of return due to the uncertainty in the area. And many ask themselves if it is safe to send them back, with a background in the circumstances that have also been mentioned in the presentation. In this respect, I have stressed that it is not possible to demonstrate a causal link between the use of depleted uranium ammunition and health damage. However, on the basis of a precautionary principle, caution should be exercised in the vicinity of wrecks by tanks and other materials protected by this type of ammunition. The on-site civil society population is well informed about the areas covered and how to behave in order to avoid possible health damage. I therefore see no reason to warn anyone against travelling to Bosnia or Kosovo, either soldiers or civilians. Of course, if I were to receive new information about health hazards that are more restrictive, I would like to inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs immediately and ensure that this information is made available to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e210	So this was an additional statement from the Minister of Defence. He will later keep his post, and until then there will be a chance of a line change. Then we will start the debate. The first speaker is Hans J. Røsjorde, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e215	President! I thought I should have the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e222	The replicas are linked to his main post. The President just informed me that this was an additional statement from the Minister of Defence, and that he would have his main speech later in the debate, and that there would be a possibility of a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e225	I thought we should have posts before the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e232	Hans J, Røsjorde is the committee leader, so it's not like that – in debates like this, it's the committee leader that goes ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e235	This speaker is pleased with the President's handling of the regulation and practice in Stortinget and expects those who would like to have the floor, at a time when it is right, to have it. That's the way you want to do it -- sometimes out of the way. Firstly, I would like to stress that this matter over a long period of time aroused considerable debate in the media. I'm recording that the media's presence today, when we debate a matter that was obviously highly focused on, is equal to zero, unless some of that grouping is now outside this room. It tells me in many ways that the matter was perhaps driven by the media on a basis that was more marked by the sensational than by the rational. The attendance here today tells me that I may not be completely ‘outside’ in such an assessment. I will be allowed to praise the Council of State for the very thorough presentation that was made on 18 January. There was a statement that addressed former colleagues – from other governments – and that contained what had been implemented by Norway, and a clear recognition that things could have been better handled in certain phases of this. I think the Council of State should have all the honor of that. This too may be a little unusual that the Council of State has today provided additional information supplementing the presentation that was made is price-priced. Of course, the details of the state council now give us some room for reflection, and it's hard to connect it to an article right now. But again, the speech contained, in my opinion, the absolutely necessary and fundamental. So we have no reason from the Progress Party to criticise the handling of this by the Council of State. It is important to note that what this debate has started, we can say, is the question of how to deal with the means of combat in a modern environment, and the possible consequences for the personnel dealing with the means of combat and for those in an area where the means of combat are used. Unfortunately, war and the use of weapons are not safe now – that is also the intention – and it is unlikely that anyone would like to add up to the use of weapons that do not have the primary task of taking out the objectives that have to be taken into account. When questions about some types of ammunition are raised, long-term effects on personnel who have used them or are located in an area should be taken seriously. I want to point to the parallelity of much of what happened during World War II. After World War II, very many of our war participants – and those who participated in the liberation struggles in other ways – were forgotten in many ways by society, which thus needed their service when it came to regaining independence or fighting for the nation. It was then – perhaps for many reasons – that one tried to make the least possible possible, at least in retrospect it has been able to look like this. But what should be the most important lesson for us is that our personnel and our allies' staff should feel safe about being followed up, and that if there is a possible reason to suspect that something may subsequently affect the health and risk of their personnel, the Norwegian State, which has asked them to serve, will ensure that their further journey here in life is taken care of in terms of the service they have had. It is the most important part of this, according to the assessment of the Progress Party. So we have to make sure – and as I understood the Council of State, it is in what is now in place – that health examination and a repeated survey after one year. It will then provide a basis for better follow-up. And we shouldn't give in to that either, because the long-term effects of this I think it's essential to be able to meet in a positive way. Those who sign contracts and participate in Norwegian quotas in the future will feel confident that they will not be forgotten on the day they leave the uniform. I think that's what's important in this. As for the potential risk of health damage related to what is now called DU ammunition – we should perhaps say ‘depleted uranium’, so that the district development funds are not unnecessarily involved in this – this is of course controversial weapons, at least during the debate that has now taken place. But it is weapons that have been developed and that have a purpose, namely to target enemy targets with the lowest possible risk for their own personnel and with the greatest possible certainty of achieving what they intended to achieve, namely to reduce targets where the type of ammunition is important. What is now going on within the alliance as regards further investigation of possible contexts, we get to follow closely and see how it develops, but after the Council of State's presentation and as far as research is concerned, the chance of this being a source of health damage seems to be relatively unlikely. But the small opportunity that lies there must of course be a weighty one in relation to it. As for the question raised by the Council of State in the statement, the proposal for a ban or a moratorium on the use of this type of ammunition until you know something more, I don't feel it would be right for Norway to take any lead there. On the other hand, I think it would be important to follow along and stay in line with our allies in how this case is handled further, because it is not just in Norway that this has raised questions, it has raised questions in all the allied countries and in other countries that have contributed to the various actions of the alliance – i.e. countries outside NATO. If you were to limit the use of ammunition by what might be controversial weapons, almost all types of weapons are controversial. It was actually such that during a debate in this room also mused were considered to be almost controversial. Weapons must provide security to the user and security of target achievement. Of course, in the case of the type of weapon that is now being developed, considerable emphasis is being placed on the useability of this weapon, and where, neither in retrospect nor during the period of use itself, there is a risk of harm to the personnel involved. It would otherwise be quite impossible whether there should be a situation that someone would like to see. Therefore, in my opinion, a further use of ammunition could be carried out in line with what our allies believe is proper use. In the case of the analyses carried out in relation to plutonium residues, it seems so far to be quite clear in the numerical material available that, as far as I remember, analyses have been carried out both in Sweden and Switzerland, they give such tiny values of residues of plutonium that this should hardly be given any more decisive weight in terms of this type of ammunition. I am also glad that the Council of State also addressed this with the coastal artillery gates and possible health damage to personnel who have served at these for a long time. There is every reason to innovate such images, whether they now have a natural explanation or they should be related to the service. And I'm convinced that in the time that comes, not least in relation to the use of a lot of electronics, we will get parallels to this, both in civil society as well as within the reach of military units. With this, I would just like to say briefly that the proposals which have been promoted by the SV and which have been distributed in the Chamber are proposals which will not be able to count on the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e263	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation on 18 January, as well as for the follow-up we have received today. In the debate on depleted uranium, there are two things we should have as a starting point. First of all, it's per. at present no medical evidence of a relationship between depleted uranium and health damage. And secondly, there is a disturbance among those who have served in international operations – a fear that the presence in areas where depleted uranium has been used can lead to health damage. Whether there is a connection between the use of depleted uranium and health damage, we need to take the fear of soldiers and others who have served seriously. Of course, this also applies to the local population. Their voice must also be heard in this context. I am therefore very pleased with the defence minister's assurance that: ‘we need to do our utmost to clarify whether there may be a causal link between the use of that type of ammunition and health damage’. However, it is important, as the Minister of Defence stressed in his statement on 18 January in this Chamber, that we do not exclude possible causal links due to other pollutants. This too must be followed up. I am therefore very pleased that there is now an offer of health studies to all the women and men who have served in international operations since 1 January 1990. The depth of these analyses is illustrated by the participation of both the Cancer Register, the State Radiation Protection Agency, the State Institute for Public Health and the State Institute for Health and Safety at Work. I feel confident that all sides will be illuminated, and that everything will come out. And for these health studies to have a value in addition to the value of the individual soldier, it is very important that as many as possible of those who have served outside use the offer of a health study. It's important both for themselves and for the follow-up. Of course, in a crisis situation, soldiers will be exposed to several types of risk. No matter how we organize military operations, this will be the case. However, it must be an objective to reduce the risk by participating in international operations to a minimum. I am therefore very pleased that we are taking this situation seriously. It is also reassuring that within NATO, as well as in other countries represented in Kosovo, a thorough review of the situation and possible adverse effects of the use of depleted uranium should be carried out. Of course, it is also positive that the World Health Organisation has initiated thorough investigations. As this shows, the fear of those who have served in the defence is taken seriously, among other things. by institutions competent in this area in Norway, as well as in international forums. Regardless of whether there is a link between the use of depleted uranium or other types of ammunition and disease among the men and women involved in international operations, it is important that we get to the bottom of this matter. I feel confident that the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defense are taking the situation seriously, and I am therefore pleased with the explanations given. I would also like to express my support for the temporary ban stated by the Minister of Defence on the basis of Norway's position in NATO. Regarding SV's proposal, I had hoped that SV could turn them into a transmission proposal. If this is not the case, the Labour Party will vote against both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e293	Although we have really touched on this matter on several occasions, I think it is important that the Storting should take this debate so that we can discuss more thoroughly all the problems that have arisen in connection with the use of depleted uranium in ammunition. I agree with the representative Røsjorde that it is striking that the press leg is empty, given the great attention the press has given to this matter earlier. However, I believe that the Røsjord's analysis of the empty press bench does not have to be quite correct. There may be more to the fact that the air has gone out of the balloon, that the Council of State has already announced the measures, and that these have been duly referred to. In the Christian People's Party, we are largely satisfied with the way the Council of State has handled the matter, and with the conclusions that have gradually been drawn. But at the same time it must be said that it might seem as if it took time before the seriousness went up to the Council of State. He has put the emphasis – also in the statement – on explaining that dust from depleted uranium is not dangerous, and he has spent much more time and effort minimizing and explaining the problems than going into them from a leading commodity attitude. He said he was right about the principle of goods today and also in the questionnaire a couple of weeks ago, but in my opinion it is not necessary to pay such great attention to the lack of scientific evidence as the Council of State did, if he has such an approach. It was also very important that investigations are now under way to establish a possible relationship between blood cancer and the presence of depleted uranium dust. It's clear that it can take a very long time, and it's very complicated, but we really don't need those answers before you advertise measures. I guess that's what the state council has come to. When we got the first notices in the media in January, the reaction from the top management of the defense was that it would be sent out letters to personnel who had served in areas where ammunition with depleted uranium had been used, with the invitation to investigate themselves – one would almost pinch oneself in the arm and try to make a diagnosis, and then report to the defense department if one needed medical examinations or assistance in any way. This clearly appeared to be an insufficient response when it was presented, and this occurred in a situation where the media could report that 16 soldiers from six countries had died of blood cancer after serving in the Balkans. Both Italy and Spain had already decided at that time that all the teams that had served in the Balkans should be called to mandatory health examinations, and in these countries we are talking about 32,000 and 50,000 soldiers respectively. There were strong protests against the position of the Chief of Defense, and we strongly disagreed on our part in the arrangement. It took only a few days before it all was changed that a health study will now be carried out on all personnel who have served in international operations since 1990, in Lebanon, in the Gulf, in Somalia and in the Balkans. But in my opinion, the Minister of Defense was concerned about telling us that there is no evidence that there is a scientific link between the use of depleted uranium and cancer. Why did the Minister of Defence not mention the health damage actually detected, and took the consequences? I am critical of the fact that the Council of State did not at all mention any established links between the use of depleted uranium and chromosome and birth defects as well as damage to the ecological circuit. It's too subtle to look at just a possible relationship between cancer and the use of depleted uranium. At the end of January, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe examined a report demonstrating environmental and health damage to the war in Yugoslavia. The conclusion of this treatment was to encourage all European countries to ban the use of depleted uranium in ammunition. This report shows that uranium dust damages breathing organs in humans located within a radius of 300 m from the explosion. In addition to the radioactive effects, uranium has a toxic element that has significant health and environmental damage associated with it. It is impossible to detect particles of depleted uranium or to neutralise them. Clearly, when this dust disappears into the ecological cycle of soil, water, plants, and sensitive organisms, there is danger on the move. The report shows that 3,000 of those who participated in the Gulf War have died of cancer, and many of the survivors have children with birth defects. Similar defects have been observed among the population of southern Iraq, where there is a strong increase in birth defects, leukemia and other cancers in children in the area. The same problems have been found in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where depleted uranium was used in 1995. The sharp increase in health damage occurred at the same time that the area suddenly became full of dust from depleted uranium. There should be no need for scientific research, but the precautionary principle should be adhered to. There are still new reports of blood cancer in soldiers serving in the Balkans, and it is clear that this spreads fear and fear that we have only seen the beginning of a great tragedy. The use of depleted uranium in bullets in Bosnia and Kosovo was particularly targeted at armoured vehicles, apparently with great success. But it's not enough to look at the purely military-technical effects of a weapon, it's also necessary to take environmental considerations, so that you don't destroy what you're there to defend. It's not the first time these balls are used. They were used on a large and frightening scale in the Gulf War against Iraq ten years ago. And the reports from Iraq show, as I mentioned, that thousands of children, and also adults, die of blood cancer. There are clear indications that this can be traced back to the use of depleted uranium balls. Then I think it is unnecessary that the Minister of Defense spends so much time and energy explaining that it is not yet finally scientifically proven. On the basis of the precautionary principle, it should be entirely unnecessary to wait for action to be taken until there is a scientific link between cancer and uranium dust. One might get the impression that the defence management has long relied on the ‘hope is good’ principle, but I am registering that the Council of State will now in practice have a ban on the use of ammunition with depleted uranium. But the representative Røsjord seemed to lean against de minimis and also explain that there is a missing little probability that there is any danger associated with this. At the same time, I have not registered that the representative Røsjorde has distanced himself from what is in practice the Council of God's position, which is about banning the use of ammunition with depleted uranium – even if it is not stated in those words, but in practice it means it. The evidence of potential health and environmental damage is so overwhelming that it is natural to work for an international ban on the use of depleted uranium in ammunition. In the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, attended by Members of Parliament from 41 European countries – that is, the vast majority of NATO countries – it was decided in the context of the examination of this report, as I mentioned earlier, that the Council of Europe recommends its Member States to prohibit the use of depleted uranium. Finally, in its statement of 18 January, the Council of State Godal referred to the World Health Organisation's presentation in February. I did not register that there was any assessment of this statement in today's papers, and I am calling for a review of the conclusions that the World Health Organisation was going to make, which was announced by the Council of State on 18 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e324	In his additional statement, the Council of State said that there was still no evidence of a causal link on this topic, and I take note of that. From the Right, we have not suggested that in this debate we should decide whether to recommend or not recommend the use of depleted uranium in the future. But the main approach to this is to look at Norwegian personnel, and that we have a system where one states that the equipment used should not cause health damage. It will be difficult to recruit people for service if there is a suspicion that the service and equipment used can cause long-term and life-threatening health damage to crews. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Defence will carry out extensive investigations which can get all the facts on the table in this matter. If measures are not restored and the necessary measures are taken, the international community will gradually be unable to carry out effective international operations. In its statement, the Minister of Defence indicated that the World Health Organisation will come back with a summary of whether exposure of depleted uranium increases the risk of leukemia. Since we are now at the end of February, it would have been interesting to get the main conclusions of the World Health Organisation's presentation and the Minister of Defence's assessment of them. The Minister of Defence said in his additional statement today that he would pay great attention to what is stated in this report. The statement states that military arrangements should be made as far as possible to avoid breathing into air with high concentrations of depleted uranium particles. It is also apparent that the Swedish Defence Research Institute has not found evidence that during the Gulf War soldiers have been subjected to levels of depleted uranium that could lead to health damage by inhalation or through food and drink. Documentation is one thing, another thing is possible scenarios. I have noticed that several allied countries have already carried out health investigations of staff who have served in the Balkans. In these studies no correlation between such service and health damage has been demonstrated, according to the report. In the United States, a possible excess of disease has been observed among US Gulf veterans. Similar experiences are, as far as I understand, made in the United Kingdom. The question to be asked is whether the diseases that may affect allies and Norwegian forces are likely to be attributed to the use of depleted uranium. In order to maintain confidence between the team and military and civil management, it is essential that the measures pointed out by the Minister of Defence be implemented and that they be implemented quickly. He himself was concerned with the precautionary principle, and that very thorough health studies will be carried out. When the Defence Command does not follow American warnings and guidelines on how to behave in cases where you have to enter the armored vehicle hit with the ammunition of depleted uranium, in other words use approved respiratory protection and cover to bare skin, this is a serious failure. Such a failure is suitable for undermining the trust that is at all times dependent on between crews and military leadership. I agree with the Minister of Defence who, in his original statement, was very critical of what had been done. I assume that the Minister of Defence sees it as one of his most important tasks to prevent, so that something like this should not happen again. To date, the right is satisfied with the defence minister’s handling of this and his position that depleted uranium should not be used as long as medical causality is not clarified. Both the safety of the crew and the ability to fight the alliance mean that the highest possible pressure is placed on the work of clarifying the health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium. The right conclusion in the light of the statement made is that we take it into account, and we feel no need for further critical comments. I think the work that the Council of State has started, and what he has announced should be started, is satisfactory. I find it difficult to see that the matter could have been handled differently from the Council of State. I see that there are things in the defense that could have been handled differently. I feel that the Council of State has taken hold of it and will pursue it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e347	Initially, I would like to join the committee leader's praise of the Minister of Defence's statement, which I considered to be balanced and good. In recent years, allegations of possible health damage to personnel who have resided in areas where ammunition with depleted uranium has been used have been regularly raised. Particular attention has been paid to the risk of developing leukemia after exposure to depleted uranium. It's not so strange that people get worried and maybe draw hasty conclusions when they hear about the use of uranium in ammunition. Most people associate the term "uranium" with radioactive radiation, which is known to cause serious health damage and often death. Not only by the use of nuclear weapons, but also by accident in nuclear power stations where uranium fuel rods are used, the consequences have been seen to be extensive health damage and mass death. The fact that in the cases in question, we are talking about depleted uranium has not all come with us. Nor is it anyone who knows without a doubt the difference between depleted uranium and naturally occurring uranium found in nature, not to mention enriched uranium, used in nuclear weapons and fuels in nuclear reactors. Many may not know that depleted uranium is a residual product after uranium has undergone a process called enrichment, which is used to generate enriched uranium for use, for example. in nuclear power plants. Nor is it commonly known among most people that depleted uranium is only about half as radioactive as natural uranium in nature, and of course only the fraction as radioactive as enriched uranium. Nor do I think everyone is aware that if depleted uranium is supposed to cause health damage at all, it must enter the body – either by inhalation, by being eaten or drunk, or by the skin, preferably through open wounds. There are other doubts as to whether exposure through the skin or ulcers may lead to damage. Nor by direct ingestion or inhalation does the research appear to have demonstrated safe health damage. Therefore, the risk of cancer or other serious diseases following exposure to depleted uranium can hardly be said to be documented, nor can it be considered in any way as such. Therefore, it is of course necessary to apply the precautionary principle and to comply with appropriate precautions. You have to understand people's anxiety and scepticism when, from time to time, claims of health damage appear in people who may have been exposed to depleted uranium. The issue has also been raised on different occasions in the Grand Duchy and in enquiries to the Government — as well as the current one and the previous one. If the suspicion of health damage resulting from the use of depleted uranium ammunition is justified, it is understandable and at the most timely that the question was raised in the Stortinget. Should such a relationship between depleted uranium and health damage be likely, there will, of course, be every reason to ensure that the ammunition in question could no longer be used. Therefore, it was also reasonable that the Minister of Defence made his statement to the Stortinget on 18 January and that, at the beginning of the debate today, he gave a brief summary and some additional information. My assessment of the Minister of Defence's statement of 18 January and his additional information today is that the Storting has received a good introduction and lighting of the issue in question, which is: Can the use of depleted uranium in ammunition cause health damage to personnel located in the areas where such ammunition has been used? The Minister of Defence’s statement was a good review of some facts and research findings as well as actions undertaken. The conclusion seemed to be that some causal link between the use of depleted uranium in ammunition and health damage by personnel who have been in areas where such ammunition has been used has not been established to date. However, such links cannot be excluded. I have recorded that the depleted uranium has many uses – both civil and military. In the latter category, the most well-known and now most focused use is related to armour-breaking ammunition. Due, inter alia, to: very high density increases the depleted uranium projectile's gravity, permeability and hence its arsenal breaking power. That such a projectile does not only cause health damage, but immediately the death of soldiers inside an armored vehicle that is being taken is obvious, but it is not a topic today. The horror of war belongs to another debate. As long as you don't have 100 pst. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence informed that in Norway neither is produced, stored or has ever been used ammunition containing depleted uranium. I am also pleased that the Minister of Defence has so clearly stated that the ammunition in question should not be used as long as medical causality is not clarified, and that this will also be Norway's position in NATO bodies, which will deal with the issue, if necessary. I noticed the information that ammunition with depleted uranium was used in the Gulf War in 1991, in the war in Bosnia in 1994-95 and in the former Yugoslavia in 1999. In the latter two areas, the total amount of depleted uranium used was less than 5 pst. of the amount used in the Gulf War. It would therefore be expected that, especially after the Gulf War, it should be possible to detect health damage, if these could occur as a result of depleted uranium in the ammunition. Both the amount of depleted uranium consumed, the relatively long time since the Gulf War, about 10 years ago, and the large number of soldiers stationed in the area — almost 700,000 people from the United States alone — should increase the possibility of health damage. In the United States, there was also a relatively early awareness of a possible overoccurrence of disease among US Gulf veterans, but some demonstrative causality, as far as I understood, could not be detected with certainty either. Otherwise, the Minister of Defence presented a series of international studies that provided few or no evidence that the use of depleted uranium in armoury ammunition could have caused health damage. This applies, inter alia, to: health surveys in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada and the United Kingdom by staff serving in the Balkans. Nor did Norwegian studies, which have naturally been relatively small in scope, provide, according to the Minister of Defence, indications of coherence between health damage and presence in areas where depleted uranium ammunition has been used. Despite few indications of the link between the use of depleted uranium and health damage ammunition, it was interesting to hear that the Washington Defence Department found it necessary to send an briefing, or notification, to NATO military headquarters in Belgium on 30 June 1999. The notification contained general guidance on how personnel should behave in cases where they had to enter armoured vehicles taken by ammunition with depleted uranium. The approved respiratory protection was then to be used and the skin was to be covered. This shows that one did not feel sure that depleted uranium could not cause health damage. The most perceptive aspect of the Minister of Defence’s statement was the identification of unsatisfactory information flows between NATO and the Member States, including Norway. Furthermore, the Minister of Defence also mentioned some failing information inside the Defence Office, as well as a lack of follow-up. I noticed the Minister of Defence's clear conclusions that 'this is, in any case, critical' and that 'the routines must be improved'. I would say that I fully agree with the Minister of Defence on this. Otherwise, I am satisfied that the relatively calming results of studies so far have not led to inaction, but that all personnel who may have been exposed to depleted uranium are now offered a comprehensive health study. This will apply to all those who have participated in international operations since 1 January 1990 and include personnel who have participated in Lebanon, the Gulf, Somalia and the Balkans. Furthermore, it is positive and necessary that all personnel involved in international operations will receive the necessary information as a matter of routine and that they must sign a declaration of receipt and understanding of the information. Finally, it shows that the potential health risk is not taken lightly when health studies are now being presented both in advance of participation in international operations, during the service and after the mandate has been carried out. That should be reassuring. The Minister of Defence mentioned in his statement the possibility of coherence between pollutants and health damage and the possibility of a more comprehensive causal relationship than has been investigated so far. I've seen indications that armor-breaking ammunition might contain more radioactive material than just depleted uranium. Special mention has been made of the possible presence of uranium-236 and plutonium. I understand that the Minister of Defence has now received a question for written answers where this issue has been raised. Of course, such opportunities need to be explored in the further studies on the relationship between participation in war or service in former war scenes and health problems. My summary will therefore be as follows: It is reassuring that, as far as we know, depleted uranium appears to cause little — if any — health damage, but that a possible causal link between the use of depleted uranium in armoury ammunition and health damage to personnel exposed to dust and particles from such ammunition is further investigated. Until such time as a possible causal link can be excluded, it is appropriate that Norway follows a restrictive line and seeks to contribute to the non-reusability of the type of ammunition in question. I had a couple of other points, but see that the clock has come to zero right there, and then I might have to take the last points later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e411	It's actually the first round at the end of a coherent story, both in the Storting and in relation to all the public authorities in Norway who reject the fact that there should be any kind of health hazard associated with the use of depleted uranium, which comes here today. And that is despite the fact that the case has been raised on a number of occasions by the SV, primarily on the basis of the damage that the Gulf War has caused partly allied soldiers, but not least the civilian population in South Iraq. The story is that every time SV has addressed this question, there have been very clear and bombastic rejections that there should be some health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium. I have to say that I am quite surprised at the extent to which the representative of the Christian People's Party dares to speak here today, because those who have been responsible, as far as the current Minister of Defence, Godal has taken responsibility for, are the previous government. It is at these intersections that SV has addressed the questions, and it is Vollebæk and Fjærvoll that have been very bombastic in rejecting that there should be any kind of health hazard associated with this. It is alarming when we gradually know that, on the American side, there has been a health risk associated with the use of depleted uranium since 1991. Since 1991, the issue of health hazards and environmental pollution related to depleted uranium has been known, problematically addressed and addressed in the United States, the Pentagon and the US Army. Since 1993, the US Army has been instructed to launch training programmes for personnel who might come into contact with depleted uranium. In 1995, it was still such that it was denied that there was some health hazard, but nevertheless an official information video on how to deal with it was made, through successful protective suits and masks. Despite the fact that for years there have been reports of concern — at least — on the US side, SV, when we have addressed these issues in 1998 and 1999, has only encountered rejections of any kind of context. The strange question to ask is: how are the Norwegian authorities informed by the United States about these questions along the way, when you can safely reject all possible links here, while at the same time taking precautions on the part of the United States? That's SV's question No. 1st@item: inlistbox What kind of information is there at all within NATO on these issues, when Norwegian ministers can stand here with their backs and reject all questions, while on the American side they have taken their pre-rules? When this becomes known, and information has been sent to the Defence Command, it obviously does not reach the top of the Ministry of Defence. And the information that has come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the same time does not flow to any of those who might have had to take their precautions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore responsible for those who have to participate in humanitarian work, for example. in Kosovo, but this is also a problem with Bosnia. So the second big question: when you were finally informed, how can it be that this information has not been transferred to the political leaders of the departments involved? What is also strange is that until two months ago, there was neither drama nor the need for health studies nor anything. It is only when other countries have also become aware of the kind of miscommunications that have been associated with depleted uranium that they have taken their precautions in Norway. Only then will there be very extensive health studies for the staff who have served both in Iraq, Bosnia and Kosovo. The fact that there was no danger of any kind or concern associated with two months ago has now led to a full alarm. We find it very strange that the Norwegian authorities have not been informed in such a way that they have taken completely different pre-regulations much, much earlier. We have noticed that both in the statement and in several other contexts – at the latest today – the Minister of Defence has assured us that weapons containing depleted uranium are not pre-stored in Norway and are not intended to be used in defence of Norway. We are very pleased that the Minister of Defence is so ready. It would have been a scandal if Norway had put up for a use of that kind of weapon in the defence of Norway, especially because it was actually a problem already in the 1970s whether Norway would be involved in the production of this type of weapon. At that time it was rejected, because there were major political so-called pressures associated with this. Then the double standards become even bigger, when it seems quite reasonable that this type of weapon has been used until today in other conflicts where Norway has thought it was right to participate on the side of the Allies. What is now going to be done in Kosovo and Iraq? SV is promoting a proposal here today. There are a number of long-term efficacy studies on the use of depleted uranium and other types of weapons in southern Iraq, which are a kind of laboratory for the pollution that is now being discussed. We would like Norway to take much more clearly the initiative of a basic study, because it is probably this area that can help to clarify what kind of late effects exist. We don't think it's like one, two or three years after contact with depleted uranium, you can document what kind of effects and relationships actually exist. What we know so far is that there is a consensus that the dust from explosions with depleted uranium can lead to damage to the lungs and kidneys of those who are in the immediate vicinity and who breathe in this dust. It is alarming that first of all, our own military personnel are raising concerns in the Storting and in the Defence Committee. But in all wars, the civilian population is the biggest victim. It is strange that there is no greater concern about these long-term effects on the civilian population both in Iraq, Bosnia and Kosovo. It's right that it per. There is currently no evidence of a relationship between the use of depleted uranium and leukemia or other cancers. But it's going to have to be extremely strong evidence to be able to deny that there's such a relationship. What we know is that both Gulf veterans and those who have served in Bosnia and Kosovo report serious health consequences. We also know of the frequency, not only of cancer, but also of birth defects in southern Iraq that can be linked to this. Experts who we have consulted say that for plutonium and asbestos it is a latent period of 20 years. Therefore, it is probably early to draw some sort of conclusion. It simply means that it is too early to conclude. That's why I have a question for the Minister of Defence. They say you want a ‘temporary’ ban on the use of depleted uranium. How long is ‘temporary’ for the Minister of Defence? If it should take 20 years before you can be documented or proven to be able to reject any connection, is it ‘temporary’ for the Minister of Defence for 20 years? Or is it not reasonable to base a precautionary principle, so that the use of depleted uranium, to which there are so many questions, is it actually prohibited? Then there's another question: Where did this depleted uranium come from? The residues of plutonium and so-called uranium-236 that have been detected may indicate that there are residues from the nuclear industry used for this type of depleted uranium. In this case, we have another problem in this context, and it is that, in the production of this type of weapon, we want to get rid of a problematic waste from the nuclear industry at the same time. What is certain is that children are strongly warned against being in contact with the type of dust that the depleted uranium leaves. That is why there is a need to focus on the civilian population in a completely different way, both in Kosovo, Bosnia and Iraq, than has been done so far in this debate. I would like to address the proposals that have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e445	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e448	We are talking about something that during the Kosovo war in NATO languages, in English, was described as ‘take out those vehicles’, which translates into Norwegian means that you have to destroy a armored vehicle and kill those inside it. Even I'm a member of, when you talk about brutal relationships, not to dress up the words. War is about someone being killed, or risking losing one's own life. What has created the debate on today’s topic is not this issue, but whether, in addition to killing and risking losing one’s own life, it can also cause harm – then – through possible lasting effects. That is what is at the heart of the debate. And from that point of view, I think you can't be careful enough. I feel that the Minister of Defence, both in his statement originally and in what he has given today, has taken that view into account. I also feel that on the points where criticism has been raised, especially with regard to information flows, he has addressed this in a neat and really self-critical way, if I should be allowed to express myself like this – just to learn. I am pleased with the temporary position that Norway has taken, namely that the type of ammunition in question should not be used as long as medical causality is not clarified. I also think that the presentation of the initiatives taken by Norway within NATO, which have been taken on their own merits in our own country to military personnel, shows that the matter is being taken seriously. I would also like to praise the Minister of Defence for taking seriously the debate that has taken place in North Norway around a part of our coastal fortress, and for being prepared to go into this, so that one can clear the way that it might not be, and try to figure out why. I have the confidence in the Minister of Defence that this is happening with the seriousness that is necessary, so that nothing should be attached to these defence installations for which there is no reason. So that this is taken up today, I see it as very important. As far as the weapon type is concerned, it's obviously the intention to use DU or depleted uranium to have an arsenal-breaking effect. Even I should have liked the Minister of Defence to return on an appropriate occasion to alternatives to this, to other substances that could be used. I'm aware that if you stick to military language, it's both about the perspective, and how to shoot to get effect. But based on the little reading I myself have made in connection with the Minister of Defence's presentation, there are at least some types of alternatives. I should like to see that these were on the table, so that those of us who are inside, to say it a little popular, are too balls and powdered, but against radioactivity, were sure that this limit was drawn very sharply, and that we are not left with a risk that a type of ammunition was used because, for dietary reasons, it was useful to use it, because maybe the alternatives were more expensive. I should like to see you come back to this, because it is from every aspect of conducting a serious defence debate that is an important information to the Stortinget, which I am absolutely sure the Minister of Defence will take along in his own way. With regard to this situation, I feel that from Norway, both in our own country and in NATO, a serious attempt is being made to clarify all relationships, and I have said that it is positive. What has created my concern, and which has not removed it, is essentially the instruction given via NATO to personnel to enter tanks or other armoured vehicles where such ammunition has been used. Of course, this kind of protective provision is not issued almost blindly, so to speak. When such provisions are issued, it must be because there is some kind of competent concern about something. And if we say, very carefully, that the causal relationship is not drawn, and that nothing is shown, then you have chosen to say that you have to be careful here. It is self-confident that one has chosen to do so, but that is also the starting point for me to think that one should drill into the rearmost turmoil that lies in these contexts, and that makes me, for my part, on behalf of the Left, carefully follow any course in the matter. To put it very briefly, we're in favour of a defense, but we find it hard to defend a defense that actually uses elements of means of combat that legitimize the use of what we can call the ABC weapons. Now it's not B and C that's the theme here, but you use elements of nuclear weapons and it should show you're on that track -- even if you're in a long, long line of thought and in the outer edge of your mind -- you can try to imagine what it would mean internationally in the relationship between poor and rich countries, when someone just says that the poor man's nuclear bomb is biological and chemical weapons, with the means of carrying that belong to it, and on the other hand, the obvious risk that one exposes one's own military personnel and civilians for as long as this is not clarified. My conclusion is that the Minister of Defense has approached this in a heavy and proper way, and I trust that he will continue to do so. I will reserve on behalf of the Left the right to return to the necessary initiative, so that I am sure that we are constantly leading were. I feel that the Minister of Defense has put up with a leading var-thinking throughout his handling of the matter, and I think he is in a safe tradition when he does. But if you were to end up in a situation where it turns out that there is any kind of connection, I wouldn't say anything but that it would have an incredibly demoralizing effect on most of us who are followers of a defense, and who want a defense. We would not like things not to be said, but we feel that the Minister of Defence has a will to say what is to be said and that he will drill into it. For the Left, we feel that one has to go so heavily into this to be sure that when faced with as serious a situation as any war situation, one should at least not have this wonder or uncertainty. And even though it, as it is described in an excellent way by the representative Restad, cannot be drawn further than what he summed up to, there are at least still questions that have not been answered in our view. Finally, there is a precautionary principle that must apply to the drawing of the boundary between, to say it a little popular, uranium and radioactivity, although the quantity is small, and what we may call the use of balls and powder, although it has a modern, efficient and, of course, very destructive effect. There's nothing of what we're talking about here, that's not about having a devastating effect, but it's the nature of the destruction that creates tension in the debate, that I feel we have to deal with seriously, and that I, by expressing myself the way I do, also encourage the Minister of Defense to continue and do in the tracks he's started.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e467	There is no doubt that today’s debate on the use of weapons with depleted uranium and possible health damage associated with this is important. It is important because it forces us, as politicians, to enter seriously into our responsibilities as the country's top decision-makers. With this in mind as a starting point, I believe that there is reason to commend the Minister of Defense for his presentation to the European Parliament on 18 January of this year and his supplementary and up-to-date comments here today – and that has also been done by all previous speakers. The Council of State statement has been constructive and good at what is really at the heart of the matter: the question of whether there may be a causal link between the use of depleted uranium weapons and possible health damage. The Council of State statement brought the matter into a factual context, and as he pointed out in his statement on 18 January, one must be careful to draw hasty and bastful conclusions. At the same time, we must take seriously those who serve Norway internationally and their fears. I believe that the Council of State has shown thoroughness and honesty in dealing with this matter. The statement and the measures taken show how serious and serious the Ministry of Defence and the Defence take this matter. At the same time, this reminds us that armed conflict and war are one of the most cruel things there is. However, cruelty has changed character, from the mud in the trenches in Verdun, via the heat and sand at El Alamein, to the challenges of modern weapon technology today. The intervention in Kosovo was not a military operation that Norway or NATO wanted to implement. It was an operation that NATO felt compelled to carry out as a result of the Milosevic regime's mercenaries. We couldn't keep looking at that. That is why soldiers from Norway and other NATO countries were sent on mission. As decision-makers, this is one of the hardest things we can do. It doesn't require a hero to send soldiers into war. So we owe those who have participated in international operations that their concerns are taken seriously. We're going to get to the bottom of this. That is why it is a wise and proper decision by the Minister of Defence to ensure that a wide range of investigations will be carried out. I feel confident that this is in the best hands. It is also interesting to note that the Norwegian Institute of Air Research, on behalf of District Command, has examined the air quality of a city in Kosovo that I do not remember. These studies show that there is no more uranium in the air in Kosovo than there is in Oslo. At the same time, the lead content, which cannot be said to be related to this use of weapons, is higher than in Norway. Finally, I would like to stress the need for international cooperation and the exchange of knowledge on any link between depleted uranium and disease. I myself have participated in NATO parliamentary assemblies, and in this regard I am pleased that this is a problem that has been taken seriously there. I am also very pleased that the World Health Organisation is conducting its own studies. Therefore, in the light of national studies and international cooperation, I am absolutely sure that we will be able to identify any hazards that have not been identified in the past and that everyone involved in international operations will feel that their safety and interests have been well safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e487	Let me first thank you for the debate, although there may well be some lines after the article. I believe that the debate has so far been characterised by good and solid and positive feedback, which is a good part of the further work of the Government and the Department on these issues. And there must be no doubt – and I don't think anyone is in any doubt about it – that this is an important national and allied matter that we are going to deal with with with with the greatest seriousness. I have to say, as a bit of general feedback to a few of the posts, that I have never claimed that there is no health hazard associated with depleted uranium. That is why we are now entering into a wide-ranging offensive both in Norway and in other countries to identify any links between the use of depleted uranium and health hazards, including for the very broad study launched in the Norwegian context, where the Cancer Register, the State Radiation Protection Agency, the State Institute for Public Health and the State Institute for Health at Work are involved. At the same time, I emphasize, as I was also involved in my original statement, that when one sets up such a great deal of work, one should also assume that this might be something else and something more than just depleted uranium. We know that we operate in combat environments consisting of bombed-out factories, chemical plants, gases – all sorts of substances, of which no one has been given there and then to have a full overview. And I would say as my maximum private opinion, in so far as it's allowed in such a gathering, that I'm typing that the chances of finding humplocks there are at least equal, not to say greater, than related to depleted uranium isolated. But it remains to be seen, and that's why we've been very concerned that the study should be wide-ranging, that one gets measured up against a wide range of variables, when one first launches a health study as broad as the one that was signaled in my statement on 18 January. So to the question that the representative Kristin Halvorsen raised, in addition to this with a health hazard/not a health hazard, which I have now commented on. So a temporary ban is not a direct quote from my post. I have said that as long as the matter is for investigation and broad review, it is natural for Norway to assume that one should not serve off the weapons with depleted uranium, and our attitude is known to NATO. Now there is no such current conflict going on, and it remains to be seen what will be the attitude to it in such a situation. But I repeat: Norwegian opinion is now reflected through what I have said, which is the government's opinion, and then we might get back to that question. When it comes to how long this will be a Norwegian position, I do not think it is possible to give a date stamped opinion here, because it is in the nature of the matter that we place great emphasis on the serious research work that is now under way. Not least, we will pay great attention to the World Health Organisation's report and its contents, see what it says and follow the advice and opinions based on medical and other judgement that may be there, and it is not possible for me to advance the treatment of it until we know its content. The representative Rise called for the report. I said in my post today quite briefly that it is available in a few days. It has been said that it will be available during February, and I hope so means that it will be available by the end of this month. But we're not sitting on the press releases and on the emissions dates of the World Health Organisation, even though maybe some of them are of that opinion. But we will, as I said, put great emphasis on the report, because it's supposed to be a summary review of all the available material, and so I think most NATO countries and others place great emphasis on the power of statement in the World Health Organization's recent report. The representative Rise was both satisfied and not quite satisfied with the statement, and then the cut is not so bad. And I can live with it. At least it wasn't my intention to minimize these questions. It's clear that we haven't had it as a starting point at any point. On the contrary, we have initiated the actions, the investigations and the measures that I have described in both my statement on 18 January and my additional statement today. And we don't do this for fun, we do it because we don't want to trivialize the case, but treat it very seriously. The representative Dørum held an article that I broadly appreciated, also the invitation to come back to a technical question: What are the alternatives to this type of heavy metals? I'm afraid that there might be other types of heavy metals that are not easily gutted and accepted initially, but I'm going to promise to give feedback on it in a slightly different context, because my competence in that area is probably exceeded by competence elsewhere both in the Defence Command and, if necessary, in the Department. I think I've answered the intrusive angles that have been. I can add for sure that we do not consider ourselves finished with this issue, as this discussion has led to an empty press release. On the contrary, it is on the agenda for the future in the Ministry of Defence and in the Government, and we are of course open to coming back with this in an appropriate form to the Stortinget. I am absolutely sure that the representatives of big business will also use the opportunities that are, to address the issues they need to have in their heart in the future in the follow-up to this whole important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e509	It is correctly summed up by the Council of State that the Christian People's Party is largely satisfied with the way the Government has dealt with this matter. It is okay to say now that as long as the matter is investigated, you should not use depleted uranium. But I think it would be interesting to get a proper answer to what the word «temporary» means: I mean how many years – or where is the limit of what is temporary? And when do you count these investigations to be completed? Then I would like to point out what has happened in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It has been dealt with in a report in which, among other things: concluded that Member States would be encouraged to ban the use of depleted uranium, and I wonder what Norway should say when this report comes up in the Committee of Ministers. How will the Government instruct our ambassador in Strasbourg to follow up this matter in the Ministerial Committee? That would be interesting to know. When I say that we are largely satisfied, I think that the statement was deficient when it was about the damage to birth, damage to chromosomes, which is actually proven when you get dust from depleted uranium into the ecological circuit. Then it doesn't matter that much if you haven't been able to detect scientific evidence of cancer, but a reference to environmental damage was totally omitted from the Godal statement. So I would like an explanation as to why this damage to the environment was not mentioned in the statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e518	I have to almost refer to my post right now when it comes to how many years. We feel that we have an ongoing obligation to assess the content of the reports that are coming, and follow the advice and recommendations that are there. We are not going to take a particular position politically that is based on political considerations. We have to look at the actual content of what comes from reports, and then draw our conclusions. And that's why it's not given to give a politically conditional date/time limit on that particular question. With regard to the official Norwegian position both in the Council of Europe and otherwise, I refer again to the article. We don't think it's possible to get all the countries in the world – and a lot of people have weapons with depleted uranium, and it's not just NATO countries – to adopt a ban on their own weapons. We really don't think we're going to bring that up. On the other hand, we believe that a practice based on the content of what I have presented as a Norwegian line has an opportunity to achieve. I think that is a realistic assessment of the situation with regard to the countries both inside and outside NATO that are sitting on this type of weapon. There may be different assessments of, but it's based on my best information right now. As to the question of why we didn't go into the environmental side of this, it was because my statement focused on the health risks of soldiers, civil personnel, command and others who were exposed to this type of stress. And it's true, as the representative Rise says, that I made it clear that the depleted uranium deposited in the lungs could pose a threat and pose a real risk to the development of cancer long after exposure. Everything related to nature/environment and war, including depleted uranium and chemical substances, was outside the scope of the statement, but is of course a major and important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e528	The change of reply so far has clarified one aspect, namely that the desire of some opposition parties to swing a little sharp whip over the council was stopped again by the representative Rise, who went quite far in his post, so that he would turn to the middle again and say he was satisfied. Something else would also have been alarming, as the current Council of State does, is to follow up exactly what the two previous Councils have done, and as Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk has also stood for. And that the Council of State has good reason to be satisfied with the day and its presentation, is quite clear. Even Representative No. One, sir. Halfway, the Council of State has given its unreserved support. With regard to the follow-up of staff, the Council of State statement has shown that there is a health follow-up at the start of the service, it should normally be one at the end, and you should have a check one year after. But now it is that a good part of the effects for soldiers in the field, often comes a long time afterwards. And my question is: will the Council of State — to follow up in a more active way the long-term effects of, for example, results of this and to look more closely at the other effects of having been in the battle environment over a long period of time — taking the initiative of a more robust system to capture any long-term effects of serving in international operations? Will it be possible to approximate it in time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e535	I will in principle definitely say yes to it, and we have through several activities in the Defense Follow-up of personnel who have served in international operations from a long time ago. I refer to the commitment that the Storting through the Defence Committee has shown for a number of years in the case of Bærheia, with a follow-up of our war veterans, eventually also our UN veterans and others, and with the availability of medical personnel that should be part of that offer. It may well be that this should come into even more systematic forms, because the chairman of the committee is quite right that that is not all you discover after a year either. In this way, I'd like to get acquainted with the routines beyond this, so that we can feel pretty sure that here we also have a follow-up of long-term effects and damage, which everyone knows is a large and complicated field. You can get sick many years later by many things, but to the extent that it relates to active combat experiences, of course, has defended a responsibility for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e542	It didn't seem like any shocking news that representative no. One, sir. The half-way from the Workers' Party took the wave for its Council of State, so then they get representative no. 95, Mrs. Halvorsen, pour some wormwood into the beggar. I have three very specific questions for the Minister of Defence. Question 1: How long does Godal investigate the effect of depleted uranium last before he feels so sure that there is no connection between the use of depleted uranium and health damage, that he will say: Now we know, now is this proper weapon that we can stand for? Question 2: Isn't it extremely, incredibly embarrassing that we have taken our precautions on the use of depleted uranium in the United States and debated it since 1991, while in Norway there has been no evidence of this? So this is our leading ally. It's just that you should blush from your toes and be so ill-informed. Question 3: Is there no need for a completely different discussion on what standards an alliance and its leading alliance partners, namely the United States and the United Kingdom, are going to add to their use of weapons, not only in connection with the use of depleted uranium and with the health risks that can be linked to it, but also when one sees that class bombs are now being used in the last bombing that the United States and the United Kingdom carried out in Iraq closer to Baghdad than ever, without asking any questions about this? So this is an alliance and a power that claims to fight for humanitarian issues, human rights, etc. And then you spread guns like you know they hit the civilian population first. Is this not a type of use of weapons and attitude towards the civilian population, from which the Minister of Defence would like to take the opportunity to distance himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e558	I appreciate the contributions of all the representatives by the name of Halvorsen, who I appreciate the contributions of everyone in this assembly. The question was: how long will the studies last? Providing an answer to it would be political to decide for something that, of course, should have a medical and scientific basis. We need to be able to continuously evaluate it in the light of the input we get. I therefore, for my part, place great emphasis on the World Health Organization's summary study, but probably also from others in the time coming, and it is in my opinion not possible to give a political date stamp on it. I hope no other politician does either, because it indicates that one has decided politically for something that is perhaps not medically thought out. Then the representative asked Halvorsen: Isn't it extreme, incredibly embarrassing, and doesn't the council of states blush from the toes and up? Well, now we're dressed in this assembly so it's not quite possible to reveal what this is like. Of course, we are concerned that all NATO countries should be at the same level of information on all these issues. But the precautionary principle that we otherwise confess to, including in this matter, has made it possible that long before the United States Defence Staff came up with their warnings, our soldiers warned against a particular type of behavior based on experience in the war environment. So you don't go into things that you don't know what is. But I fully agree with the representative that we should of course ensure that everyone in the alliance and otherwise is as up-to-date as possible on these questions, and I have shown myself that the flow of information in a few special contexts has not been satisfactory. Of course, I'm holding on to that. I ask myself questions about the use of class bombs stopped in Iraq, and I expect that if the press reports are correct, this is a matter that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will handle further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e571	I can't help myself, because I think it's a pleasure for the Secretary of Defense to confirm that he has at least bled from the toes up to the snapp on the issue of information between the United States and Norway in this matter. I am also pleased that the Minister of Defence actually says that he is asking questions about the use of class bombs in Iraq, and that this is a matter that needs to be handled further by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Is it that we can expect Norway to protest against such use of weapons and such actions by the United States and the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e578	I maintain that I ask myself questions about the use if the use should be related to the stated purpose, and if the press releases about this are correct. And that's the same thing as the representative Halvorsen now asks me about, and I can confirm that I ask myself questions about it. But the follow-up to this case is naturally in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Weapon use should be proportionate to what it is after, and obviously it is not to hit individuals in the civilian population, but strategic and important installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e585	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e590	Since the 10 minutes I had for the main post, I was exhausted, I was going to sum up some points, but didn't quite get to the goal, so I had a few points left. I will now start by including these conclusions. And then the next thing, besides those I had in the main post, is that further efforts must be made to identify the possible relationship between harmful substances other than depleted uranium in armoury ammunition, possibly environmentally harmful substances in the areas concerned and the health problems encountered in the planned health studies must be carried out and the results should be published as soon as they are available, i.e. as far as the Norwegian health studies are concerned, all personnel likely to reside in the relevant areas where depleted uranium ammunition containing depleted uranium is used must be provided with the latest updated information on potential health hazards and recommended precautions. Then I use the opportunity to comment briefly on SV's two suggestions. Proposal No. 1 is intended to prohibit ammunition with depleted uranium. I believe, for my part, that this may be somewhat drastic on the basis of a suspicion of possible health damage, but for the time being without any likelihood of such a causal relationship. I feel that the attitude expressed by the Minister of Defence, which will be the official position of Norway, that of refraining from using such ammunition until it can be determined with certainty that its use will have adverse health effects, is the right one. If it is demonstrated that the use of such ammunition may have adverse health effects, it is, of course, necessary to prohibit the next round. However, until it can be demonstrated, I believe that the official position expressed by the Minister of Defence is the right one. Proposal No. 2 launches a research programme under the auspices of the United Nations to identify possible excesses of cancer and other health cadres in the population in southern Iraq after 1991. And I guess, even though it's not clear in the proposal, that one should also reveal possible reasons for such an overoccurrence. There are probably other possible causes of health damage than depleted uranium. In that case, it will be in line with my own view, which was one of the summation points with which I started this article, namely to get a wide-ranging study to reveal possible causes of health damage to people who have been in the areas concerned, but who may be due to substances other than depleted uranium. That is why this is in line with what I feel will be the right attitude. Now, unfortunately, it seems like this, based on the signals we have received in the debate, that if these proposals come up to voting, they will be voted down. There has been a clear message about it both from the Progress Party and the Labour Party, and I also interpreted the Right so that they will vote against the proposals. I would therefore ask the SV to re-submit the two proposals for transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e613	Just a brief comment on both the speakers of the Workers' Party and the speakers of the Centre Party who have invited SV to make these proposals for transmission proposals. We think it obscures some of the things that are the political conflict in these matters. Our point regarding proposal No. One is that, in the 10 to 20 years' time, one cannot rule out a health hazard associated with the use of depleted uranium, and that therefore, in the foreseeable future, there cannot be a situation in which one can say: Yes, this is healthy as carrots, so we let it pass, and Godal goes out and fights internationally for these weapons to be put back into service. And in the case of proposal No. 2, is what Gudmund Restad mentions in this regard, right, because we know that there may be many types of pollution in southern Iraq that may have contributed, maybe combinations may be extra dangerous, etc. But anyway, it'll be of great importance to get it mapped. That's why we want the government to be at international level to get that kind of investigation. Then it will be the problem of these representatives if they want to vote against!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e622	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e636	We are facing a major change in the petroleum policy. The government has proposed the partial privatisation of Statoil and the restructuring of the SAD, including the sale of selected holdings, a new management model for SAD and a new gas transport company. The aim of this conversion is to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian capital, to increase the value creation of Norwegian capital to the delight of Norwegian society and to provide Statoil with more framework conditions in line with its competitors. These proposals are now under discussion in the Grand Duchy. In St. prp. No 40 asks the Government to allocate 135 million. to cover expenditure relating to the preparation of the proposals contained in St.prp. No 36 on the partial privatisation of Statoil. The expenditure includes the Ministry's own expenditure relating to the sale of shares in the public sector. Expenditure related to the establishment and operation of the new SGEI and the gas transport company is not included. There is no proposal for a ceiling on the proposed allocation, but there is no doubt that we are talking here about a cost for the acquisition of income. It is a broad majority that today gives the ministry clear signal to move forward with the preparation of the process that has been initiated. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e665	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e674	Norway has reserved itself against the decisions of the International Whaling Commission, IWC, and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Plants and Animals, CITES, on the prohibition of the capture of wavy whales and the listing of wavy whales as a endangered species. In spite of this, however, the Norwegian authorities decided in 1987 that the catch of wave whales should be suspended until safe stock assessments were available. Several studies and registrations carried out show that not least the populations taxed by Norway cannot in any way be considered as threatened with extinction. What I refer to here are the Central and North Atlantic wave populations. In view of this, the Committee considers that it is most appropriate and necessary to continue the extraction of wave-scaling. This does not least contribute to ensuring a better ecological balance in important fish growing areas. Norway captures the waves of two populations representing a total of 200000 animals. Until 1984 we had an annual catch of about 2,000 animals. Since 1983, Norway has been running a symbolic catch of an average of 300 animals, i.e. over the last 17 years. For this year, Norwegian fishermen have been allocated a quota of 549 animals – a quota that could and should have been set several times higher on a scientific basis. In fact, after 1983 the wave whale population in the northern regions has increased by at least 40 000 animals. According to fisheries research in Tromsø, these new 40,000 animals supply about 40 000 animals in the northern regions. 200000 tonnes of cod and the same quantity of other fish species. Today, the extraction of biomass by Selenium and whales contributes to a significant ecological imbalance — an imbalance that can no longer be defended economically. Celebrity in the Baltic Sea is expected to be well over 2 million animals today. Norway has practised a self-imposed export ban on wafer products by not granting an export authorisation. Although present Document No. The 8-proposal would probably have had a majority in Stortinget, there is reason to give the Government credit for changing its position and policy in this matter. On the right, we consider it important and necessary to see the whaling as an integral part of the fisheries policy. Whaling is very important for more communities, and the potential for increased value creation lies, of course, in the opportunities for market access. I assume that the Committee and the Department have the same ambition as regards the wish that practical exports can be started by granting an export licence. Furthermore, I assume that the Council of State today will explain whether the DNA registry that is going to and should be in place has come into place, or whether we are talking about a short time before this is considered satisfactory in place. I assume that there must be a misunderstanding in the written statement when the Council of State refers to the fact that this register is expected to be operational in 2001. This then stands at a certain contrast to what has been said earlier that there were only a few weeks left until this system was considered to be in place. And as I said, I ask the Council of State to clarify this relationship. I also assume that there is no warrant to refuse export to Iceland. Iceland does not have its own whaling and will already be able to carry out the necessary investigations and what may be necessary to get the DNA registration and systems properly in place. I also ask that the Council of State here clarify the possible ambiguities that might lie on this issue. I'd like to focus on a couple of relationships. First of all, the written statement by the Ministry that the export licence regulations are to be consulted. I assume that the type of consultation is not extensive, at least not in terms of the timely use of a consultation process, because the whale-catchers and those who have prepared for export are now waiting for them to get started. We cannot then have a comprehensive consultation process going on on these issues. Finally, I would just like to say to those who believe that this export authorisation is of a contentious nature, that it is only to establish that the protests and the attention given to this matter in the international environments are minimal and should not give any cause for concern as to what kind of effect this type of export might have on the other export of Norwegian fishery products or other products. I think we should be happy about that. We are going to do everything we can to defend the export of wavy products, and at the same time to draw attention to the importance of the extraction of wavy, and that it is also necessary to create the ecological balance that is needed, in order to improve its position in our northern regions. In the end, I would like to say that I assume that the government has the necessary preparedness to get information in place where there may be a need to fire extinguish in terms of protests against and misunderstandings about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e700	Whaling has always been a natural food supply for the coastal population. It has helped people to have a living and thus to keep their homes and homes on the coast. We have approx. 75 quantifiers, and they're part of the ocean's ecosystem. They're a fish and they're competing with the fish for food. The need for nutrition for the various quali­cations per year In fact, this is about the same day. 5 pst. of the body weight, and then one can imagine that it goes with quite large amounts. But no one wants overexploitation of any of the species. All the harvesting of our natural resources must be maintained at a level consistent with the nature to which it is subjected. When it comes to the capture of wave options, it is fully justified to drive the capture and economic exploitation of this natural resource, which is renewed annually. It's the puzzling principle of all exploitation of nature, and the pain is thus not in a special position in this respect. The main reason for opening up for the export of the wavy product is that Norwegian resource management is based on the very clear principle of resilient management based on scientific criteria. This principle must also apply to torture, because it can otherwise endanger the full basis for the hoarding of living marine resources. There is also reason to remember that the pain is at the top of the food chain and, if the population comes out of control, it will need so much fish and other raw material from the sea that it will have direct consequences for the quotas that fishermen can take, which will primarily feed people. Norwegian vocational policy has been a firm player in the field of the capture of qualifi­cations in 1993. It has been a measure of normalizing the conditions around the catch, even when it is exportable. Norway has tried to obtain international acceptance for the trade in a quail product through CITES, where species and populations threatened with extinction are treated. There is scientific evidence that the wave populations we run are not likely to be eradicated; on the contrary, the populations are in very good condition. In order to ensure that only qualifying products from Norwegian legal qualifi cation are placed on the market, a DNA register for waving is established. This register shall be used to monitor trade in Norwegian products in order to distinguish them from possible trade in qualifying products from other sources. An additional requirement is that export licence conditions are set and that exports are allowed only to importing countries that can carry out DNA testing through a similar system as we have. It should be recalled that the Committee has emphasised that experience with the establishment of the Norwegian register must be made available to countries wishing to develop a DNA testing system for imported wavy products. When so much emphasis is placed on DNA testing, it is because the international community should be able to have full confidence in our governance regime. Norway is a major fishing nation – No. 10 on a world-wide basis – but we are the world's leading and largest exporter of seafood. We have a small home market, and 95 pst. of our production goes to exports. In such a perspective, great emphasis must be placed on communicating that we really care about the management of marine resources that respect the tolerance of the sea. There are scientific data to underpin our quota recommendations, and we must work to be the world's foremost fishing nation, where we are at the forefront of the development of a resilient resource management and where we are at the forefront of the development of capture and aquaculture technologies and in industrial development. This has been confirmed by the Stortinget in the past with a wide pen through the treatment of the perspective message, which we had up to treatment two years ago. There is reason to be glad that there is such a big deal in the Storting relating to this matter, that there is the principle of a resilient resource management that will lead to the foundation, that there is scientific data to govern our withdrawals, and that this should be passed on to the world community in a credible and honest way. That's why we're going to have a good time. We have to take care of that, and we have to flag it for all it's worth in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e726	I have a few comments, even if it is not necessary in itself because it is a consensual committee, but I have some fundamental assessments that I think there is reason to come on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, we're joining the crooked government in relation to the export of wave options. So one might ask: was it necessary to deal with this proposal so extensively in the Chamber? The reason why I thought it was, is that it's important that we show the world community that there's a mass greatness behind the government in the decision they've taken. Historically, it is clear that we have things on our conscience in relation to the management of pain. A cleanup work has been done here. We are on a scientifically safe basis today, and we act responsibly on the basis of a total view of the ecological balance in the sea. The allowances that are set may at least be based on what should be taxed when a fish is thought about. At the same time, I understand the assessment made by the Minister for Fisheries and the Government that one here should follow the quota allocation system that has been drawn up by the international body. So there's also a reason to connect to it. I would also recommend to the Government for years to work to gain an international understanding that all resources are important to manage responsibly and important to process into good products, and to like that one can enter into world trade with these products. There's reason to rejoice, as Rita Tveiten's representative did, that there's a cohesive big deal taking these decisions. I thought it was necessary to take the word on behalf of the Christian People's Party to underline it, even though it is a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e737	It is gratifying and a victory for the whale industry that the Minister for Fisheries, on 16 January of this year, announced that the Government would open the way for the export of wavy products from Norway. It is also an impact on the proposals of the Progress Party that the Stortinget has to deal with today. We assume that the Government is now facilitating the export of wafer products in a satisfactory way, such as: The rapporteur was present. There has been some concern and uncertainty from the Norwegian side as to whether the decision on exports would be met with international reactions. To date, the counter-crimes have not been very strong, as we politicians here in Norway have seen through the media. This may include, inter alia: is due to the fact that Norway is reaping international recognition for its sustainable whaling to a far greater extent than in the past. Nevertheless, what has been the main obstacle to sensible taxation has been international opinion, the positions of the International Whaling Commission and various environmental protection organisations. Therefore, it is appropriate to provide for the organisation of a campaign for increased understanding of sailing and whaling by means of Norwegian foreign stations and professional information companies, we believe in the Progress Party. It is necessary to be prepared and to increase the information available to the many interested in this matter internationally. In its alternative draft budget for the current year, the Progress Party has put forward proposals to set aside 50 million. kr for such campaigns. There is a great deal of scientific consensus on the issue we are debating today. For many years, safe stock assessments have been carried out, and by resuming the catch and activating the reservation in Norway following the decision of the International Whaling Commission on a commercial fishing ban in 1982, a contribution has been made to raising awareness among IWC members of the mandate of the Commission to work towards sustainable management of whaling. What is a reality today is that the population of marine mammals is in significant growth and is immersing heavily in fish stocks. If Norway is to realise the potential for growth within fisheries, conditions need to be facilitated, and increased taxation of whales and seals must be seen as a natural prerequisite for doing so. The question of sustainable whaling, trade and exports is really about following the principles set out in Agenda 21. We are talking first and foremost about sustainable harvesting, but also about economic development, jobs and the maintenance of a living coastal culture. Now the Council of State is about to take the floor, and some questions have been raised in the debate with him. I will also venture forward with a question. As I said in my post, it is, as we see it here in Stortinget – I think there is a general perception among the majority of politicians – that very small international reactions have come from environmental protection organisations and other interest groups. Governments are in contact with foreign stations and other international environments. What's his perception of this? Wouldn't we be able to assume that there are particular international reactions? And should we have a standby in case it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e752	Taxation of marine mammals, whether whales or seals, must be part of a fully sustainable management of marine resources. The central and North Atlantic wave populations taxed by Norway are not endangered. It also identifies scientific studies and stock assessments. The use of renewable natural resources within a safe biological framework is an important principle, which must also be taken into account for whaling. It is important that emotions and irrational arguments do not become crucial in the management of our resources. To a large extent, this also applies to marine resources. There is a broad consensus in the Stortinget to open up the authorisation for the export of Norwegian whale products. Wave-whaling products can be an important element, a factor, in coastal value creation. History shows that this has been an important industry that can also make an important contribution to value creation in the future. As in other areas, further processing and product development are important. This applies to whales, but also to the highest degree to which they are sold. Sel has been a topic on various occasions here in the Chamber, and I would like to encourage the Minister of Fisheries to be active in organising both in terms of sustainable taxation, product development and the use of funds, preferably through the SND system, to get a boost in the further processing and product development of the resources that we are talking about here. What's important when discussing such principles as today is to find the balance between what's right in terms of resources, and different action groups that will have co-influence – find a balance that makes us both have it as an industry and not harm other industries where we depend on exporting. In this case, I think that the line we are now applying – the way this has been handled – is good, and I would like to congratulate the Government, which has turned this case around.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e761	As you know, it was announced on 16 January this year that the Government has been set to grant an export licence for Norwegian wave whale products. The main reason for opening up exports is the importance for Norwegian resource management of maintaining the principle of sustainable management based on scientific criteria. This principle must also apply to whales, as it may otherwise endanger the entire basis for the harvesting of living marine resources. The authorisation to export products of wave whales will be granted under specified conditions and in the form of an export licence. The authorisation will be conditional on the simultaneous issuance of a CITES permit from the Directorate for Nature Management. The Ministry of Fisheries is now developing a concrete system for issuing an export licence. In a short time, the Ministry will issue to the hearing a draft amendment to the Export Licence Regulation, with a view to making exports operational. However, such authorisation will not be issued until a DNA registry for Norwegian captured wave whales has been completed and operationally completed. The system is now subject to testing and quality assurance so that it is as good as possible. It is essential that this register maintains a quality that is beyond doubt. That's why I can go per. today do not give a concrete date for when this will be completed, but it is not a very long time before we have this in place. The DNA registry will be used to monitor trade in Norwegian products and to distinguish such trade from possible trade in whale products from other sources. Exports of wavy products from Norway may, due to the fact that this species is included in CITES List I, only be made to those countries which have made a similar reservation to Norway against the listing in CITES. This means we can export to Japan, Iceland and Peru. Other countries that are members of CITES may not allow the introduction of wave whales for commercial purposes. Norwegian fishing is now established as a fact and is given less and less attention by governments of other countries as well as environmental organisations. It was assumed that opening for the export of whale products could create protests that would be largely irrational. These would probably primarily come from protection organisations, but also from governments in countries where such organisations are strong. So far, the reactions have been relatively limited. Official reactions have been recorded, among others. The United States and the United Kingdom. Otherwise, reactions have been recorded to a small extent. The case has been mentioned in foreign media, but to a modest extent. I am not aware that reactions have been reported among the audience against Norwegian products as a result of the decision to open up for export. A separate information and communication strategy has been implemented in cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Fisheries in order to be prepared for any reaction to the decision to open up the export of wavy products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e778	In fact, this debate had not been called for, but since the proposal was promoted and the position is on the table, I think it is useful for the Minister of Fisheries to confirm that the decision that was taken on 16 January was correct. This is an incredible change that has occurred since 1997, when an application for an export licence for whale products was referred to as a threat to the national security of the State in the reply letter from the Ministry of Fisheries. It's almost not to believe that it's possible to get such a system change in three-four years. The relationship between Norway and the United States on this particular issue has never been better than it is now. There have never been so peaceful and so few questions to Norwegian foreign officials from the United States, while one in 1997 assumed that the relationship to the security of the state would cause major problems. I have to ask: is it really supposed that the media will be allowed to rule and rule with a Norwegian government and the Storting over so many years without political acceptance and decision making, as it is now? I'm really surprised that this is going on, because this whole debate on whales and seals is a Norwegian media phenomenon governed by the protest industry, and magnificence representatives and governments become obedient nodules in the media circus. That's the proof. The proof is now on the table. No response from our most angry critic, ‘Uncle Sam’. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the whale taxes fish, and so does all marine mammals. In fact, the wave whale population is growing by 2 pst. per 1 % years. That's what international consensus is about. Hundreds of scientists meeting in the IWC Scientific Committee agree on this. That means a growth of 2,500 animals per. years. Let's take out a poor fifth of that. And then you call it caution. I'll call it transverse. It is very pleasant for me to stand here on the platform and testify that the whole of the Storting is in agreement with the policy being pursued, and I have to ask the Minister for Fisheries a specific question. Since an application for a licence was submitted in 1997, with a risk to the state and safety of the country and everything, it has been demonstrated – and the Minister for Fisheries confirms to this extent – that there is no legal basis for refusing to export. Now it has to send out a prescription at the hearing, says the Department. The size and exporters have been led behind the light in the years since the law on exports was repealed. The regulation to prevent exports is enshrined in a law that we in the Stortinget have repealed. The department knows that. At the same time, the department performs to write two reasons in a refusal: one reason for exporting to Japan, where it should be enough just to be able to carry out DNA analyses and at the same time have an import licence, while when exporting to its friends in Iceland – our own people, our brothers, who come from Norway – there are quite different criteria; there is to have an up-to-date DNA register, and here you cannot expect to sell a kilo of bacon. And then it turns out in retrospect that this isn't right, that this is probably an accident at work. What's the department doing? Do you not have legal competence and legal assistance so that you can at least get the concepts right? I just have to apologize and say that the handling of this matter has not been streamlined. But I hope for the time being that we are now getting exports going, so that we can end these debates and dialogues. And even though the Council of State may need support in Stortinget, I join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e789	The President will assume that the term ‘obedient nodding’ does not automatically fit into the language used here in the Chamber. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e794	The Party of Progress promoted in Document No. 8:79 in the 1999-2000 session, this proposal to repeal the self-imposed export ban on wafer products. And I have to say that I am very pleased that the Minister of Fisheries and the Government on 16 January this year made sense – I kept saying – or that at least the initiative of the Government to lift this self-imposed export ban on wavy whale product was chosen. It's important that we see the whole thing about the harvesting of marine resources. The representative of Kongshaug was also concerned with what had to do with sales. It is important that we now put in place a proper strategy to bring down the cell stock by opening up the possibility of developing products that can be exported and sold, so that we can also achieve sustainable development in that area. It was the representative of Tveiten who indicated that the whale was at the top of the food chain. It's probably true about the sea, but personally, I think it's the human being who has to be at the top of the food chain. I actually see myself – even if you can fool when you're in the media these days – as if over the whale! I hope that as much as possible will have the opportunity to export these products of wavy whales, to which it is appropriate. But I became a little skeptical when the Minister of Fisheries in his speech indicated that the regulations were to be consulted. It would take time. The register has to be in place before you can do it, but it wouldn't take that long. I just have to say that sometimes when I have received feedback from this government too that things should go quickly, it turns out that things that are going to go quickly, take a terrible long time. And I hope the Minister for Fisheries can give some feedback to this room about when you can expect these things to be in place. If this could be about six months or a year, you're still waiting, and you're wondering what's going on with the products that are already on the freezer storage today. What happens to the whale pointed at today's freezer storage and exposed to drying, thus getting lower quality and further lower price? I hope that we can now do this in a fast and little bureaucratic way, so that we can get the export started as soon as possible. And I also hope that when it comes to the recording that goes on sale, you see what is involved in the harvesting of marine resources, in a context. Let's try to create a market abroad for this, so that the Norwegian coastal population can benefit quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e808	It was really the question of this DNA register that made me ask the word again. Norwegian whaling policy has been based on the fact that we have had a responsible policy. We have been able to justify scientifically the quota determinations we have made. It has been based on the international principle. We need to have the same approach to getting this DNA register in place. We have to do it as soon as it is right, but it will not benefit our case if we are not sure that this register has the quality required when it is implemented. It is not in the case of the consultation of the new regulation, it is a lengthy consultation period, but it is a matter of drawing up the regulation, the draft shall be subject to normal consultation, and the regulation shall be implemented as soon as possible. I do not imagine that the preparation of this regulation and its adoption will at all delay the process that is taking place in Norway and in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e813	I think it would be dramatic to walk from here today when there is a basis for the obvious misunderstanding that the pain is at the top of the food chain. I would strongly urge, even though the representative Nesvik expressed some doubts, that I still have full confidence that it is the human being that is at the top of the food chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e818	The Stortinget thus established this. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e834	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e843	The proposal submitted to the Storting today concerns the possibility of using the whole feed quota without compromising the determination of density. That is what is behind the proposal. It is proposed to increase the rearing volume from 12000 to 15000 cubic metres. It is a real problem that has been raised. I think that's what the committee can put behind it. Good land use in fish farming is also important. We have also discussed this, the last time the farm policy statement was discussed. It is also important to provide environmentally friendly, good solutions. There is also an ever-increasing interest in animal protection within farming. In the statement on 23 January, the Minister for Fisheries announced that the aim was to introduce a new system of production and density regulation. It mentioned criteria such as good land use, environmental considerations and better use of feed quotas, and also that the capacity of individual sites for production and environmental capacity should be taken into account. It is also certain that in this area we need more knowledge. The Committee has not said that the proposal is not part of the solution, but we want to await the system notified by the Minister. That is why the matter is annexed to the Minutes, and we await the proposal from the Government. Because this is a problem which arises especially on small holdings with one, two or three concessions, we have also clarified what the Committee agreed on, that when granting new concessions, those holdings where this is the biggest problem should be given special consideration when granting new concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e856	I have not intended to keep any long posts in this matter. We are given the opportunity to come back to it in a broader and broader context in the context of the answer we have received from the Minister of Fisheries. This is a problem, as the industry itself has pointed out, within the current system and legislation. In particular, the Progress Party does not want to have any feed quotas at all, because we want to remove such restrictions – quotas, licensing schemes and other legislation – for traders in general. Nor do we want the regulations we have on volume limits that prevent the pursuit of business and to be as competitive as possible. But as I said, within the current system, we have chosen to listen to the industry's views. It has clearly stated that the current system is distorting competition between small and large companies, because it is problematic to use the whole feed quota without compromising the densities. We think it is important to take this into account in Stortinget and put your finger on it, so that in a broader context this can be taken into account and found good, constructive solutions for a growth industry in Norway. Finally, I would like to address the motion referred to in the vote, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e867	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e870	This is a matter and a proposal that had deserved to be supported by the Storting today. Let me just say that the present salmon agreement that Norway has with the EU binds us on our hands and feet in many ways. We've been working on a concession policy that makes us have clear limitations on developments in this area. We've joined the principle of minimum prices. We also have a feed quota system that regulates and determines the rate of development. I think that in many ways the rapporteur argues well for what is contained in the proposal on the need for volume expansion within the existing concession area. It is then a little more incomprehensible that the same case rapporteur agrees with the majority to vote against this proposal pending the possible change of policy in this area in the future. Let me just remind you that this case is not about small concessionaires, who today own one or two concessions, being given priority in the next round. This is more about a practical regulation to motivate a better environment within the meridians, better opportunities, better framework conditions to prevent disease development and to create better economic conditions for those who operate, and in other areas to create greater flexibility in terms of optimal and reasonable use of volumes. Right wants primarily to be able to have a volume up to 18 000 cubic metres, but of course we support this proposal, and are proposing along with the Progress Party in this matter. This is about giving better environmental conditions. It is about providing a better financial environment for this industry. Finally, I would just like to make it clear that when the rapporteur and the majority really argue in this way that they support the intention of the proposal, I assume that the department takes this seriously and ensures that we get the framework conditions and the volumes for the future that enable the environmental factor to achieve the objectives which the majority parties have also set themselves in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e888	I have noticed that the majority of the Business Committee believes that the proposal for an extension of the concession volume can be considered as one of several alternatives by introducing a new system of production and density regulation. In the coming years, the growth in salmon and trout production is expected to continue. Part of this growth will be taken out by awarding new concessions for salmon and trout production, and some will be taken out by increasing the production capacity of the existing concessions. I have previously explained – and am still of that opinion – that an extension of the concession volume from 12 000 to 15 000 cubic metres is not an adequate alternative to remedying the problems and challenges faced by small and large breeding companies, or for that part of the aquaculture industry as such, in the longer term. If the growth continues and does so, it will again conflict with density and volume requirements. I therefore believe that it is more appropriate to introduce another system of production regulation, which gives farmers a better opportunity to take into account the environment of the fish and the well-being of the fish and the disease situation. We're in a situation where these cubic meters no longer regulate production in the industry. This is currently regulated by feed quotas, which is a system that works well. I also feel the need to say a few words about this relationship to the salmon agreement, which is something you feel pressured into. I can agree with that. However, the salmon agreement has helped to ensure that the industry has been doing fairly well for some years. I think it is right to remind each other of what was the alternative to the salmon agreement that was concluded. The alternative to what we were given was a significant penalty duty on Norwegian salmon. I think that if we had, the world of Norwegian salmon industry would have looked significantly different than the situation is right now. I believe that a system of production regulation needs to be seen in a broad perspective, where the consideration of the fish's living environment does not conflict with regard to rational and profitable operation. We are working to arrive at concrete content in a new system for monitoring the production of plants, where we do not exceed the production capacity of the individual concession. This is also important from a different perspective, namely that the area of the coastal zone suitable for salmon farming is limited. This is why it is particularly important that the sites that withstand a larger production can be exploited for this purpose and that the area needed to ensure fish health and well-being be used within a locality. I therefore believe that another sustainability-based system for each site is a better response to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e901	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e904	After hearing the statement to the rapporteur-general, I am a little surprised that the conclusion is that we are voting against this proposal. You talk a lot about the content, but you don't want to take a position on it, and you look forward to the government returning to Stortinget, because then you are better able to decide on the question. We probably need a new system of production and density regulation in the farming industry, and I hope that this is a work that can happen quickly, so that you can clarify some of the issues you face today. In fact, it is important to exploit the opportunities existing in existing installations and in very small coastal installations that have the potential to expand the concession volume itself, thereby also improving fish health and not least the conditions for those operating this industry. I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with specific issues regarding the conditions in the farming industry. For the time being, the only proposal in terms of breeding is that Statkorn Holding should have capital expansion, so that they could buy into one of the most remote establishments on the farm side in Chile, so that they could again compete with Norwegian breeders and make conditions more difficult for them. I just have to say that I hope that is not what is favored when the new regulatory regulations come, that individual state companies should be established abroad and thus compete against Norwegian companies. I would have liked the Minister of Fisheries to say a little more specifically about when the Stortinget will be able to come up with a case that goes on with production and density regulation for the industry, so that there is something to do with it, and so that this industry can look forward to an evaluation of the current system. Then I would also ask that the Minister for Fisheries perhaps begin to assess whether that is so. may be granted salmon concessions to countries not covered by the salmon agreement with the EU, for example: to Japan, other countries in Asia, America and some other places. I also think it's about time we started to see if it might be appropriate to distinguish between salmon and trout concessions. The ear is a small sold product in the EU, but it is a large product in terms of sales and exports to Japan. I think we have to start thinking in these paths too, considering this, so that we can set aside the fish that we have the opportunity to produce in Norway, and I hope the government will come back with a case that looks at exactly these issues in the context of the concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e917	Today, we are discussing an interesting proposal for an extension of the rearing volume. It started at 8,000 cubic meters, and then it expanded to 12,000 cubic meters, and now there's a proposal of 15,000 cubic meters. The size should not be a body dealing with the details of the regulation of the fishing or farming industry, it is likely to be done a little too far. But I feel that there is a need to expand the concession volume for the individual, and I also feel that there is a great deal of need for regulation in this industry as well. If that's what the Progress Party wants, I don't care if we keep the district-based industry with the scattered housing and activity that we have today. There's a small point that I think I want to point out when it comes to the regulations, and that's how to measure the volume of a farming concession. How do you measure the volume in a pot? Measuring rules say you're measuring down to five meters, but what about the 25 meters that are below the five meters – or the 40 meters below the five meters? The limit is in the measurement system. Those who have deep enough in the fjord have nuts so deep in relation to the depth they can have, that today it is really no limitation in volume if you only have depth enough in the sea. I think it might be interesting to bring it with me. I'm aware that the committee knows about it, but I guess nobody wants to talk about it. What's most effective, and that's proven to be what's doing the best job, is the feed quotas. Feed quotas have stabilised prices, feed quotas have stabilised production, and combined with the minimum prices agreed with the EU, Norwegian farming industry has never had such a recovery and profits as they now have, precisely based on regulations that have worked and with which farmers are satisfied. I don't think that's exactly the volume of the individual concession that's the big problem. The danger of both the regulation of feed quotas and minimum prices is that it can become a sleep cushion for the development of the industry. Because now, like everything's on the rails, it's just a matter of getting the feed factor down.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e932	I'm not going to extend the debate a lot, but there's a couple of interpretations of the speakers' posts that I had a certain need to comment on. First of all, it's usually not so stupid that one actually sees more things in context. And what I'm saying here is that this might be a current way of doing it, but one will see it in relation to several other ways of doing it. And that the conclusion would then be, when the Progress Party and the Right have a suggestion that takes a little bit of it, that one should also vote for it because one thought it might be interesting, that in my view is a completely illogical conclusion. The logical thing is, in fact, that one is willing to see it in a whole box when it is presented to the Storing. And then this could be what we're voting for, but it could be something else. When I hear the representative Ivar Kristiansen and the representative Nesvik talking about Norwegian salmon industry and Norwegian farming as a sad matter, as if they only have problems, I have to say that there is no industry that has had such great success in recent years – despite the terrible governance described here. I have to say that sometimes I wonder what is the reason for this, but I'm not going to pull out that attempt at analysis any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e955	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e964	Today is a landmark day for the people of the coast. The size is invited to join in laying the foundation stone of a forward-looking coastal plant. And we're going to add the list high. We want the world's best coastal management. But how are we gonna do that? The coastal works are to be reorganised into management companies before the end of 2001 and new locations are to be designated from the same date – that is, things have to happen quickly. The production department is separated as a separate unit located directly below the coast director and located at Kabelvåg. Such co-location of all equipment will provide a much better overview of installations and plant operations than one has today. The engine fleet can be more rationally exploited, with the right equipment in the right place. Time of death and land are the next words, and tasks are enough of them; we have them in flenght. There will be visible results both in the short and long term by having one office managing the equipment for the heavier maintenance of the service. The Coastal Directorate must be located in Ålesund. The location is chosen according to the fact that there is a good maritime environment there, with good chances of recruiting the staff that a forward-looking coastal works must have. I say it in this way that it has our great commitment from those who join their organizations and those who trust in the relocalization of Oslo. Very many people have made a noise when they don't want to be on the move slider. As case spokesman and on behalf of the entire committee, I want to make it clear that we understand that this is not a simple matter for them to add. I find reason to underline what the plurality – the Working Party, SV and Center – has said in the committee setting in relation to adding their rights. The same majority understands that Employer Responsibility is changing and that jobs can be changed. The majority also view the department in the message and join it. I'll find a reason to take a little flashback. In 1974 the Losvesenet, the Fyrvesenet, and the hamnevesenet were merged and submerged under the Coast. So it's been about a quarter of a century without having the effect that you wanted to have of reorganization. More information on the state of things has been put in a drawer in the Ministry of Fisheries over the years. There have been many attempts to find new measures, without having succeeded in obtaining the results you wanted. What has happened, on the other hand, is that the five district offices each have grown up as top-heavy minicyst directorates. The money has gone to the administration and not to what we all wanted more of, better labelling, better fishing ports, more dredging and measures to increase the safety of all travel along our long-distance coast. In the light of these developments, a group led by Nils Totland to look at the ‘New Coastal Plant’ was set up by Mr Schjött-Pedersen. It is this report that is now the basis for us to stand there today. Also, the latest incidents of shipshavary, ship accidents, landslides at risk of oil spills, and not least the latest signals of transporting hazardous waste along our long-distance coast, focus on the need for a move forward. The Committee is also aware of the inter-ministerial work on the content of the future Coastal Facility in terms of security, which is currently under the responsibility of several departments. There is probably a lot to pick up here when co-location in the new Coastal Plant. The stuttering message refers to the looting service. In the context of the reorganization, no future changes are currently being made, but one is well aware that there is a strong focus on cost developments. Both the location of a future unloading centre, the use of traffic control centres and boarding sites will come back later. The ministry comes to Stortinget with a case about the fireworks and marking services in March, where a review of crew, hire, disposal and other relevant problem settings. It is likely that new technology, the use of the Defence Radar Stations in peacetime and the escalating plan and the willingness of several departments involved to advance the completion of electronic maps for the whole country can give us whole new opportunities to look at the lighthouse service with new eye-to-eye – at all times for the summer semester. The economic gain shall be used for several measures for the improvement of the seafarer. This year’s budget has increased, and in the national transport plan — NTP — there was an additional increase of 20 million. kr annually. The effort on labelling and security measures along our coast is in the planning period now of $5,560 billion plus user funding. This is a formidable lift. It shows that the challenges and opportunities you have with travel along highway No. 1, is well cared for, and that this Government has already addressed the challenges. But I want to say from this pulpit: the Labour Party will keep the pressure up and follow carefully that things happen. We in the Labour Party are also concerned that work can be added to the district offices to fill with tasks and specialisation, for example. collection of fees and the like. But we don't want to go so far that we want to localize those problems now. The most important thing is to get a coastal facility that works for the future, and that one does not destroy the effect of reorganization by running too fast. The idea is that in the new coastal works it may be sensible to carry out other security-related tasks as well. I first said that today we lay the foundation stone of a forward-looking coastal plant. Reorganization removes the detail control from the Size. There are county plans together with the Coastal Agency and a strong level department there that will serve to give us the results we want. There is systematic coastal work that will provide safer trajectories for both useful traffic and pleasure boats. The aim of the working party is to improve traffic ports with national status in the context of port and maritime law and NTP revisions. We voted against the fact that such a status was granted both to Ålesund and to Karmsund in connection with the NTP. There is a mark on the wall without any additional content. Once the government has signaled that there is an ongoing audit work, we in the Labour Party will wait for it. The reorganisation of the Coastal Plant also has other elements in it. The shipping function shall be grouped in one office. The eel's sound is pointed at it. In this context, it is important to indicate that this can be done independently of the reorganisation or otherwise. The majority, everyone other than the Right and the Advance Party, believe that a realistic date for this implementation is 1 July 2001. A joint administration of boats for efficient use can bring financial benefits in the million class from the very beginning. It is important, therefore, that all boats that exist at the district offices be registered, and that the directorate actually gets it to assume responsibility for future rational operation, mainly in its own right. No one is likely to have their own boats in storage, and that one hires others in. At the end, I want to make sure that the plurality is unaccompanied with the Right Party and the Progress Party to send the message back to the Department. We don't have time to lose. We are getting better coastal management with this reorganisation. Nevertheless, there can be no improvement in efficiency in the exact amount of crowns, but all the signals that administrative costs can be cut and more measures taken more quickly are of the benefit of safety and the emergence of coastal conditions. It's Norway like a maritime nation very well lit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1000	The coastal works have been under debate for a long time. Increases in fees and organisation have competed on the focus of debates. We've been waiting a long time for the government's staging message, and unfortunately there are still many unsolved points in the message. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important that we now focus on the very important role of the Coastal Agency which facilitates safe movement and economic development along our long-range coast. We see an adventurous development of coastal seafood production, and it will require increased attention to port and fairway development. There is a great need to improve the main fishing ports and those with the greatest development potential. This requires thorough investigation by the department and political will to prioritise. Regrettably, today the ‘bingo principle’ is far too much in control of the port management. Today’s Evening Post refers to three statesmen in North Norway who require day-to-day surveillance of the coast to prevent shipshavary and environmental disasters. The population is concerned and anxious about the consequences of increased traffic of dangerous goods along our vulnerable coast, and they are asking that the responsibility for coastal preparedness be brought together on fewer hands than today. In this respect, I would like to refer to the treatment of the national transport plan, where the need for coordination in the transport sector was strongly underlined. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the organisation may be a contributing factor in the modest focus on maritime transport that we received in the national transport plan. We therefore believe it is high time that the Government continued to assess whether responsibility for all modes of transport should be placed in the same department. There can be no doubt that in the future, the Coast Guard Agency has an important role to play in facilitating safe coastal transport and, in close cooperation with others, ensuring continuous monitoring, good preparedness and a well-developed warning system. This is something from the background that the Christian People's Party will not be able to send St.meld. No 13 back to the Government, as the Right proposes. We have no more time to waste, and it is very important that the debate on the Coastal Works does not become primarily an economic debate and a question of AS or not, as the Right and Advance Party put it, but that we now get focus on security in the fairways and efficient upgrading of the ports. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that there is a majority to settle some important issues in this round. Unfortunately, some decisions will be further pushed forward in time, but we assume that the Ministry has a high priority in following up unexplained points in the notification. The coastal works shall become a management company. It provides room for net budgeting and will result in less detailed management of the Storting's annual budgetary procedures. It's positive. The role of the size should be limited to prioritizing and setting targets. We don't have to deal with every smallest detail. What was more natural to move out of Oslo than just the Coastal Works? In the Christian People's Party, we are very busy moving state jobs into the districts to counter the centralization wave and ease the pressure on centralisation. Strong counterforces have joined the path in connection with this relocation, which is quite natural. We're not just moving an ethos, we're moving people, too. I assume that the relocation will take place in close contact and understanding with the relevant employee organisations. The production department of the coastal works shall be separated as a separate unit, directly under the responsibility of the coastal director. The production unit shall be added to Kabelvåg. Collecting the production tasks of a unit, which is separated, can produce positive results and a more efficient operation. Fishing port development is a major part of the business of today’s two offices in North Norway, while the activity in South Norway is more characterised by pilotage services and traffic centre services. It is therefore natural for a new, combined production unit to be added to North Norway, to Kabelvåg. The government points in the proposal to Ålesund as a possible location for the future management company Kystsverket, but does not conclude. It is positive that there is, however, a majority in the Committee to decide that the Coastal Works should be added to the Ålesund and that reorganisation and relocation should take place at the same time. Ålesund is Norway's largest fishing port and an important centre for coastal shipping. It is therefore a natural location choice. Despite some disagreement within the Committee on Procedures, everyone agrees that the Coastal Works should be added to Ålesund. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government of Great Britain does not draw conclusions about the organisation and location of the Losing Service. Here too there is a need for clarification. The disembarkation service and the traffic centres should be grouped together and, as we say in a note, located at Haugesund. Such organisation will provide a basis for targeted and rational operation. The centre parties are amazed that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not see the need for such co-location, nor do they want it to be located in Haugesund. In this respect, I would like to point out that it is important to clarify the location and function of the traffic centres within the Los Service. There is currently a debate about unloading in Oslofjord, where it may seem that the traffic hubs are too much depriving themselves of responsibility for unloading, and where the Losing Service complains about crew shortages. The Christian People's Party assumes that the Ministry will continue to clarify the tasks of the traffic centres and the tasks that require traditional unloading. If the assumption of more remote unloading from the traffic centres is not feasible, the consequences must be taken into account. I expect the Stortinget will be briefed in a suitable form. Finally, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's position and will not vote for any of the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1037	Now 1999:5, the new Coastal Plant, which was released on 15 February 1999, notes that neither administrative, service or production tasks are managed in a cost-effective way by today’s coastal works. The majority of the committee therefore proposes that the Coastal Agency be maintained as part of the State, as a management company. The Progress Party agrees with this and, like the majority, believes that it will increase the degree of flexibility and operational responsibilities through net budgeting and often more liberal powers in terms of addition and property management. Since the Coastal Agency performs monopoly functions in most areas, the Progress Party sees it as important and essential that the overall authority maintains the management of the Coastal Agency's revenue side in setting fees. The Progress Party refers to the fact that the Coast Guard Agency as a management body is currently responsible for the development, operation and maintenance of fishing ports, for traffic controllers, lighthouses and brand installations, and for the Los Service and the traffic centre services. In this respect, the Progress Party considers that the various tasks could be put at a competitive disadvantage. The activities also include administrative tasks relating to laws and regulations for ports, fairways and leisure. The Coastal Station is now composed of the Coastal Directorate, located in Oslo, and five district offices with underlying operational units located in Arendal, Haugesund, Ålesund, Kabelvåg and Honningsvåg. The coastal plant is currently under the Ministry of Fisheries. In this respect, the Progress Party would point out the unfortunate fact that the various functions relating to our coastal traffic are in different departments. The time has now come for a review of this structure and to look at a rational transport to and from our ports on the land. The Progress Party agrees that reorganising the Coastal Plant to a management company, separating the production unit as a separate unit and organising it in one place is a good solution. The Ministry of Fisheries proposes that the unit be located in the Coast Guard 4th district, which has its headquarters in Kabelvåg. This also believes that the Progress Party can be most rational. The pilot service, which is user-funded, is proposed to be retained as part of the management company. The Progress Party will consider assigning responsibility for this to Haugesund. Reference to St.meld. No 47 for 1998-99, on the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system, where a number of investigations related to the activity are announced. However, the State budget will propose the introduction of a separate regulation fund for the Loss Service, so that revenue and expenditure can be balanced beyond each financial year, as set out below. Budget-in-one. S. No 13 for 1999-2000. In this context, the Progress Party will come back with proposals for a more efficient and rational use of the Lost Service, for the benefit of users, so that they do not pay more than necessary for the services. The fire and tag service is proposed to be retained as part of the management company. The structure of the fees must be assessed as a follow-up to the conversion. Today ships engaged on international voyages calling at the Norwegian port pay a coastal fee. This finances approx. 30 pst. of the costs of the fireworks and branding service. It should be reviewed in terms of rational and fair distribution. A centralisation of the shipping function of the vessels under fire and tagging services is assessed after the production unit has found its shape, but the Progress Party finds it natural to add it to Ålesund. The construction and heavy maintenance of fireworks and brands will be part of the production unit, and the Progress Party believes Kabelvåg will be the best place for this. The Progress Party proposes that the Coastal Directorate should be placed in Ålesund and national infrastructure planning, such as: follow-up/renewal of the national transport plan and assessment and coordination of local and county proposals and wishes to develop. It is important that financial management is strengthened and streamlined by centralisation of functions, so that responsibility and overview are added to one place. The Progress Party agrees that the central services are maintained and continued as today in the management company model, but it is also important that these are assessed and upgraded in cooperation with the users. The Progress Party supports the Committee's comments in particular. We believe that this will improve the control and exploitation of the resources available to the Coastal Agency, by bringing the Directorate closer to the users and by saving money on travel expenses. The Progress Party also believes that rentals are likely to be more reasonable in Ålesund than in Oslo. The Progress Party has noted that there is considerable resistance among employees to moving the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund, and that they believe this will result in greater expenditure and loss of expertise. The Progress Party believes that this is a natural reaction, but chooses to see the Coastal Works as a unit where the total gain must weigh more heavily. We again point out that NOU 1999:5 concludes that the Coastal Plant has not solved its tasks cost-effectively, and naturally finds that there is a reorganisation in favour of the users of our Route No. 1, the coast, both in terms of service and safety. We also remind you that there are still major tasks in relation to the marking of fairways, in particular because of the recent failure and because of faster boats. In this context, it is important to carry out work on electronic navigational charts and on electronic navigational aids. The progress party thereby takes up its primary suggestions in the configuration. Secondaryly, we will support the majority vote. The representative, Sigrun Eng, mentioned from the interlocutory that the Right Party and the Progressive Party were behind proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox This isn't right. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against proposal No. 3 by the Right, and for proposal No. Four, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1071	Christopher Stensaker has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1074	The purpose of the organization of the Coastal Works must be to ensure that the Coastal Works are effective – much more so than they are today. There are good reasons why questions are asked about the way the Coastal Plant operates, and about the safety of our long and difficult coasts in the light of the many accidents and near-events we have experienced over the years. Coastal responsibilities and tasks are fragmented in a way that makes efficient management very difficult and thus places safety in an unfortunate position. It has to be cleaned up. Here is an illustration of what the organisational map looks like; who is responsible for what: Ministry of Fisheries: infrastructure and fairway services Ministry of Defence: Coast Guard Ministry of Justice: Main Rescue Centres Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs: ports of traffic Ministry of the Environment: Maritime Monitoring and Oil Protection Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade: conditions on board vessels Ministry of Transport: riksvegferger So here we have seven departments working with different tasks in coastal management – in a country with 4.5 million people. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries shall draw up a national transport plan and coordinate the various modes of transport. In this picture, maritime transport needs to be strengthened. It is to get this structure right – not to say the structure – which is the Government's task no. 1st@item: inlistbox Together with this, the demand for better organisation, financial management, better cooperation and better pricing for users is linked. The patience of the national audit, user and political environment has been tested on several occasions. That's why it's now about doing to keep your head cold and doing things in the right order. I can understand the majority's impatience – it shares the Right. But I'll appeal to the majority not to let irritation take over the direction of what to do, and how to do it. Determining the movement of the Coastal Plant before a task and economic impact study has been carried out is to start at a crazy end. The important thing is to achieve the optimal organisation of the Coastal Works with criteria I have mentioned earlier. The government must further facilitate optimal cooperation — or, if necessary, integration — with other agencies, including the evaluation of other division of tasks between departments. Nothing should be insolent. The notification contains the weakness that it does not set targets for efficiency improvement, nor the measures it will take to improve cost-effectiveness. Such weaknesses are not uncommon in the context of reorganisation within central government. It is users and society who suffer from the consequences for a long time after the decisions have been taken. Further measures to control the development of fees, measures for changes in cost structures, reviews of organisation, interfaces and coordination gains and overall efficiency of responsibility for our coastal management in the ministries as a whole are lacking. On this background, Right will send St.meld. No 13 back to the Government, to give it the opportunity to come back to Stortinget with a much more thorough treatment of the entire case complex. We agree to separate the production department as a separate unit and believe that the step should be taken in full by transforming the production department into a limited liability company. If our proposal to send the message back would fall, the Right would not object to the fact that the Coastal Directorate would be moved to Ålesund. It is not right that we go towards the setting, as the rapporteur said in his statement. We are in favour of returning the message. However, the government has the opportunity to present the proposals it finds serving society, including its users, in the best possible way. It's also about choice of places, and here it's about having political courage. Despite the majority's point of view, I assume that employees' organisations are included in the further investigation work and that their influence will not be reduced in this position. It's a prerequisite for our subsidiary voting, if our return proposal falls. I'm putting forward the Right proposal, no. 3 and 4, which are on page 4 of the setting. If proposal No 3 drops, we support the setting. Right-wing votes against the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1118	Ole Johs. Brunæs has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1121	The development, operation and maintenance of fishing ports, fairways, lighthouses, branding, lodges and traffic centres are important factors in the development of industry along the coast and are also decisive for the safety of maritime traffic along the coast. When all of this, in addition to some administrative tasks, is the work of the Coastal Agency, it goes without saying that the Coastal Agency is responsible for a great many important tasks. The main emphasis of the Coastal Works resources is on the production of infrastructure and services for shipping, fishing fleets and other coastal zone users. Therefore, it is also important that the Coastal Plant function effectively and that resources are used to maximise the return on investment. Since the merger of the Losdirektoratet, the Port Directorate and the Fire Directorate in 1974, several selections have assessed the Coastal Agency. Both organisational review, better resource use and increased capacity in the Coastal Plant have been assessed. When the conclusions of the work are that changes and new measures are needed, it is important to implement these measures now. The party that is responsible for sending the message back will not support the request. The Central Party supports the proposal that the Coastal Works should be converted into a management company. The center party has been busy moving out of Oslo for a long time. We are very pleased with the proposal to move the Coastal Directorate, and we support the proposal for Ålesund as a new location for the Coastal Directorate. The centre party notes that the reorganisation of management companies will take place before the end of 2001. Once reorganisation and relocation have been decided upon, this should be carried out simultaneously and as soon as possible. I would also like to underline what others have been about before me, that they have to join their organisations in the further work. Requirements for and use of resources also require that responsibility for other areas of the Coastal Plant be localised into a location, thus giving rise to greater freedom of action and providing a basis for more targeted and rational operation. Therefore, the Centre Party supports the collection of all plant and work layer units in one location, the creation of the production unit directly under the Coastal Director and the localisation of this unit to Kabelvåg. We are also positive to a collection of the shipping function, located at Ålesund. The Lostenesta is user-funded, and St.meld. No 13 suggests that it should still be so. This supports the Center Party, but we just want to point out that it is important that this service be organised as efficiently and rationally as possible. The service should cost as much as possible to the users. The Ministry has proposed that the Lostenesta continue to be part of the management company. Any separation of the Lost Service from the Lost Service that a dedicated device should be evaluated when following up on St.meld. No 47 for 1998-99, on the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system has been completed. The centre party cannot see the need to wait for St.meld to follow up. No 47 before taking a stand for a possible separation of the lozenest. The follow-up to take place is, for example, the following: the creation of regulatory funds, the review of parts of the legislation on unloading and the assessment of the use of remote unloading from traffic centres. There should be no reason for postponing the Lost Service Exclusion Decision pending the completion of this work. I notice that the case spokesperson said that the Labour Party is that as much of the tasks as possible should be located in the district offices. The case spokesperson also stressed that we need to have a most efficient coastal work, and she said that ‘we have no time to lose’. I totally agree with that. In the Central Party, we believe that when a first reorganization of the Coastal Works is to be carried out, as much as possible of the reorganisation should be carried out at the same time. In a note with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Center Party has therefore said that the Lostenesta should also gather in one unit, and we have suggested that this unit be located in Haugesund. I record that the other batch does not have the corresponding notes, and that there is therefore no plurality for this. But on the part of the Center Party, we insist that the Lostesta should be separated as a unit of its own, and that the location should be Haugesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1147	There are several who have been involved in all the distribution work that has been done when it comes to the way one should organize the Coastal Works. When I look through the various documents that I have, I realize that there must be a lot of bunkers that are made in drawers. It's made decisions, draw conclusions, and then it's done very little. The case spokesperson said that in some areas, one didn't have to go too fast, but we in the Left want to go a little fast. The main tasks of the Coastal Agency are to promote safe and efficient coastal transport and to participate in and further develop maritime transport as a well-functioning and cost-effective transport for business. In NOW 1999:5, the new Coastal Plant, the selection finds that neither management, service provision or production tasks are solved in a cost-effective way, and that is quite strong words. In St.meld. No 13, which we are dealing with, the government is also unusually clear when it comes to the challenges you face to meet the demands of modern management and manufacturing services. More people have been involved in what is on the safety side of our coast, in organizing and coordinating the various agencies that have this as a job, and in connection with the national transport plan, there was also a small discussion about it. I was a little surprised when the representative Brunæs, who had deepened in this, said he had reached seven departments – I have counted five times. So there's a need for a proper review of this, it's safe. In the left we think that we have to take some action today, and then we get to wait for this, there's some thing you can't postpone. When it comes to the proposal to move the production unit to Kabelvåg, I support it. We are also going to support proposal No. 4, from the Right, that this unit is converted into a limited liability company. For the Left, it is important that you have a closeness to the users, that you have a dialogue with the users. It is also important to use the existing maritime competence and to cooperate with the various educational institutions that have this competence. We also found it important to use the expertise available in the various district offices. In connection with this case, I have been both in Haugesund – dialectically, I belong to that district – and in Ålesund to see what competence exists, what recruitment opportunities you get for the new Coastal Directorate. I also saw the competence and competence in the various district offices, and I was very impressed. In Ålesund they are far ahead when it comes to electronics; they are far ahead in terms of the use of alternative energy when it comes to lighting and lighting services, and they have come a long way in the development of electronic navigation aids and information and reporting systems on the high school. So to Haugesund and loosing. There is so good evidence of the possibilities available in District 2 that this should have taken place immediately. In Haugesund, there is access to the maritime environment when it comes to training and recruitment; good cooperation with the højskulen has been developed both when it comes to continuing training and training for the losses, and most of them, 43 p.m., of the unloading income. It's a district office that's going to be very efficient, and it's a maritime environment that's ready to accept. The party of progress has given a clear signal that they will wait for the conclusion. When managing St.meld. No 47 for 1998-99, On the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system, the majority asked that, in the context of the management of the Coastal Works Selection Committee, the Ministry assesses the models for the alternative organisation of the Lostness Service. I think it is a very economical reference in the big message that we have for treatment. So here I agree with the case spokesman: we have no time to lose. This is a grip that one should take now, in order to get the best possible use and the least possible fee and cost for maritime transport, because reduced costs think I can become a reality if one gets dropped to one of the district offices and gets to take advantage of the competences of the different district offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1174	Today, when the Storting deals with the position of the Committee on Transport in this matter, this is the result of a relatively lengthy process, a long debate and several investigations which have been based on the fact that the Coastal Works are not properly organised or functioning, or at any rate on account of the fact that today’s organisation is not suitable for meeting tomorrow’s challenges. In my handling of this matter, I have also stressed that there has been a significant criticism from Stortinget regarding the management and financial management of the department. The staff of the external branches of the establishment have also made it clear through their participation in the investigation work that they have wanted to go very far in carrying out a comprehensive reorganization in order to have an effective and forward-looking organisation. On 15 February 1999, NOU 1999:5, the new coastal plant, was released. The majority of the sample assessing the Coastal Works proposed that the Coastal Works should be converted into a management company, that the production unit be separated as a separate unit and placed under the Coastal Director, and that the pilotage and fire and branding services be continued under the management company model. The events of recent months have shown with all possible clarity how important it is to establish a total coastal management that is true to meet the new challenges of securing our waters and our traffic controllers in a new era with completely different requirements for portability and safety than what we have been used to accepting in maritime transport. We also see that we are facing completely new and threatening challenges as a result of increased activity in the northern regions. I am thinking here of both future oil and transport activities and the resulting transport, and I am thinking of increased economic activity and greater economic transparency in Russia's northern regions. We need to think new, and we need to think about totality, we need to succeed in ensuring the safety of our entire vulnerable sea area in the future. I do not overlook the fact that a new and modern coastal plant should take greater responsibility for ensuring the safety of Norwegian waters, but I am convinced that we need to take the fundamental steps in the organisation of a new establishment before it can be relevant to new tasks. I also believe that a new and improved establishment will be served by a location in a strong maritime environment. I therefore look forward to receiving within a few days the new coast director's investigation into the consequences of moving the directorate to Ålesund. I have the objective that the reorganisation of the establishment should lead to the Coastal Plant becoming the driving force of a forward-looking coastal management. The overall objectives of coastal management are more numerous, I will pay particular attention to the accessibility and safety of fairways and the further development of maritime transport as a well-functioning and cost-effective transport for business. I have come to the conclusion that the Coastal Works should be converted into a management company, as the sample proposed. This means that the Coastal Plant will have a freer position than it has as an ordinary administrative body. The responsibility of individual employees and of the organisation as a whole will thus be made clear. Not only does it run government, it also produces services. Several of these services are also fully funded by users, which also implies that the establishment should be reorganised and that the organisation as a management body is not sensible. We have seen through the emergence of the aquaculture industry that there are interests in the coastal zone that need to be balanced against each other. The coastal works must be able to participate in these processes and facilitate the development of nutrition and safe movement. The new structure will therefore place great emphasis on strengthening planning and management activities. Another necessary change is that a more commercial operation of the establishment will also be organised by separating production activities as a separate entity under the direction of the coast. The production activities of the coastal works must be strengthened and made more efficient. As part of this, the Government's proposal is that the production activities should be established in Kabelvåg. This is important because a very large proportion of the construction projects carried out by the Coastal Plant take place in North Norway. In Kabelvåg it is a district office that already constitutes a professional environment, and it is site facilities that are suitable for the task. The main tasks of such a production unit will be the works of the Coastal Plant in the port and fairway sectors, as well as the construction and heavy maintenance of navigation infrastructure. In the establishment of the production unit, the aim is to professionalise the construction function of the Coastal Works and not least the Coastal Works as a contractor. The conversion and movement of the production unit shall be carried out in consultation with the employees’ organisations. After establishment, the unit will be directly subject to the coastal director. As I have already pointed out, an effective and modern coastal directorate can in the long run take greater responsibility for the safety of our coastal waters. But I am convinced that this requires the new Directorate to be located in a strong maritime environment. The government believes that such an environment exists in the Ålesund area. Here there are educational institutions and a living shipbuilding environment, and here there is tradition of having the Norwegian coast as a workplace. It goes without saying that this is a serious decision, which must be thoroughly investigated before it is implemented. This investigation work is now under way, and I expect an investigation on the consequences of a move on my table on 1 March. This work also involved the withdrawal of all relevant civil servants’ organisations in the Coastal Works. I will return to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion with the conclusions of the Ministry of Fisheries based on this investigation. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Transport suggests that changes to the district structure should not be implemented now, but that relocation to Ålesund will take place. Both the Directorate and the Department are now entering into demanding processes. I agree that the main focus must be on the investigation of a possible move and on the process of conversion to a management company. The majority also request that the shipping function of the Coastal Works should be grouped and located in Ålesund by the end of the first half of 2001. The members of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are also in favour of the Losing Service and the Central Services being brought together and located in Haugesund. I have no doubt that it is possible and certainly also rational to assign responsibility for parts of the Coastal Directorate's operations to some of the existing district offices. However, this must be part of the significant migration process under the responsibility of the Coastal Director. This is a demanding process, in which both consideration for employees and consideration for the establishment of an efficient and modern coastal works must be taken into account. I am convinced that the Coastal Director will place great emphasis on the comments made by the Stortinge on this matter. I am also convinced that the Coastal Director will address some of the obviously irrational systems that exist for both messaging and piloting. In a relocation process, it is also important to ensure that the Coastal Works are able to carry out their tasks at the same time as planning a possible relocation, reorganisation and not least a transformation of the Coastal Works from a normal management body to a modern management company. I assume that the Coastal Plant Scheme as a management company will be ready by the end of 2001, as it is foreseen to enter into force from 2002. I have the objective that the reorganisation proposed here will bring efficiency gains. It is important to stress that it is not the old Coastal Plant that may be moved to Ålesund. What's going to be moved, and how it's going to be organized, we're going to come back to Stortinget with. It would be necessary to assume that such a reorganisation process entails expenditure. In St.meld. No 13 for 2000-2001, on the organisation of the Coastal Network, it is therefore said that expenditure and the reorganization of future budgetary documents will be returned. A future coastal works must be developed as a management company capable of maintaining the day-to-day management of infrastructure services in the field of maritime transport, maritime safety and coastal management. During this winter we have been illustrated how vulnerable our coast is when shipping accidents occur. The coastal works play an important role in the prevention of safety work in maritime transport, both through the fire and tag service, through the Los Service and through the operation of the traffic centres. The government is concerned that the overall public resource use along the coast is optimal, and in this picture the Coastal Network is central. It is therefore nice to note that the users of the Coastal Works services are mainly satisfied with the establishment. A user survey carried out during the month of January/February of this year shows that it is in all the areas of responsibility of the Coastal Plant, i.e.: as well as pilotage, port service, planning and management and traffic centres as well as fire and branding services, are a great deal of satisfaction with the services provided by the Coastal Plant. Through the process that the Coastal Administration and the Ministry of Fisheries are now facing, I see opportunities for further improvements. This will benefit users, so that, at the next user survey, we may imagine an even higher proportion of satisfied users of the important services provided by the Coastal Coastal Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1231	That Norway is a maritime nation, we get confirmed in various ways every day. What I would like to point out briefly in connection with this matter is that about 75 pst. The people of this country live within a mile of the shore. It demands that people have effective and safe coastal management both as passengers and in their work at sea and on land. Both the roll-out and the committee setting contain clear objectives and concrete actions to address the need for increased efficiency and security along the coast. Looking at this issue in a broader context, in my view, a forward-looking rural policy must be set up so that one takes advantage of and stimulates the knowledge and competences that exist around the country. This can be done by decentralising a national responsibility within the areas in which a region or city has good and broad competence. The reorganization of the Coastal Agency with the relocation of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund are concrete and forward-looking measures. Furthermore, there is a good example of the combination of State-renewal needs and national objectives for increased security in and along coastal areas, with one in this way focusing on the broad maritime competence of this area of the country. A natural consequence then is that one strengthens the learning environment at the maritime sphere of Ålesund. This will also have a great deal to say about the future recruitment of the Coastal Agency. In the position, the Committee on Transport has an historic suspense that excites praise and praise for political courage and action. In my view, the Committee stresses that the reorganisation should provide a rational operating model and a more efficient use of resources both in the short and long term. In my view, a central commitment to this closure is to coordinate the overall use of resources in public budgets and to establish clearer and more formalised cooperation between the actors responsible for security and transport along our coast. For the Workers' Party, the reorganisation of coastal management is a natural part of the public sector renewal process. In my view, it would be natural for the Coastal Directorate to be a central hub for public activity on the coast, and for the broad review of future coordination that is now taking place between the departments concerned to hold assessments and conclusions that take account of this. It should be well known to the Storting that adding to the Coastal Works around the country has not been satisfied with the situation and developments that have been in the department in recent years. They have given clear signals, through distributions and other means, both on the needs and on the proposals for changes that may provide better conditions for the exploitation of their coastal pool of resources by the state in a more efficient and forward-looking way. For those in the Coastal Works around the country who meet users daily and who have for a long time seen and pointed out the need for change, it must be very easy to know that they are today being confirmed by this setting that the reorganisation process is underway. There is also reason to believe that they know more than others that it is now the most important and the most concrete work starts. Conversion experience shows that the digestion from adding and other actors in such a process depends on the possibilities of constructive participation and that the tempo plan is implemented in line with the objective. In respect of all those who have worked with constructive proposals to create an efficient, modern and forward-looking coastal works, it is important that the progress plan made in the setting be implemented. This is to be done initially by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which has set up a collection of the fleeting functions located in Ålesund within the first six months of 2001. Olof Palme has said: politics is the will. My experience is: politics is also getting it done. The reorganization of the Coastal Works with the movement of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund is historic, and it is not least a concrete example of the fact that the Labour Party takes seriously the renewal of the public sector, that we will, and that we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1252	We are debating an important issue today. It has been a long time since we have debated a matter of such great regional importance. I would like to take the opportunity at the beginning of this article to say that there is an impression that I am against the Coastal Plant being moved out of Oslo. There was a notice about it in the Sunnmørspost. I would like to cancel this. Of course I don't get any pressure on it, because the press isn't very interested in what I'm saying from this pulpit, but I've never said that I'm against the Coast Guard movement being moved out. I came by while the employees at the Coastal Works had a demonstration, and I encouraged them to continue fighting for what they thought they would fight for. I've always encouraged people, no matter what they've been doing around the country, to grab hold of their situation and try to do something with it, and I still do. I think it's a great measure by the Government that they're moving out such a big state institution. When it's decided to move it to Ålesund, I guess I'm not so sure it's the right place. I could have thought of moving it a little further north, so it would have had even greater territorial significance. But when the decision now seems to be that it's Ålesund that's going to be the place, I have to praise the lobbyists and the process that's been going on to get this done. I think it's got to be a Norwegian record. There must be a historical record in getting ahead on a matter that was mentioned by one sentence in the budget position when we adopted the State budget. It's almost impossible to believe it's going on, so it's got to be incredibly good people who've been doing this. We have experience in having state institutions in the districts. There's Brønnøysund a brilliant example of how to have a state institution in a small place, an institution that does an excellent job for the whole community and creates the necessary ring-effects that it means. I have to say that I hope that the reorganisation process for which the Kosmo Council is the leader will lead will lead to more such institutions being moved out of Oslo, when you see the incredible pressure and the use of money that is right in the Eastern region. I just want to do a little example. We've opened the world's longest road tunnel, which costs less than the exceedances of Rome's sport. It is presented as if that road tunnel is terribly expensive, while the exceedance of the Romeport is not mentioned. It puts things in perspective. We're about to start working away in Bjørvika in connection with an opera. Before that bill has arrived on the table, and everything has been completed with roads, tunnels, sinking tunnels, cleaning up, PCBs, etc., I fear that 100 billion kroner have been spent. And who is going to work for this money? Of course, people need to do the job of spending that money. Where are those people supposed to come from? I'm not going to say all the directorates, but I'm afraid that a lot of people have to be moved out to balance that magnet, the incredible money consumption it will be when you're going to build a new part of the city at record speed. What must be the purpose of moving the directorate, must be to get more and better directorate for the money. There is one thing in the message that I think was a little bit complicated. The Coastal Director should have had greater powers instead of writing that the Coastal Plant should have it. The director should have had free hands when he's about to build a new institution. There is something else that I have been very busy about. Since New Year I have probably contributed to the fact that it has been cancelled approx. 30 questions on coastal surveillance. There are six institutions, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Industry, all of which are responsible for what is happening inside and outside the baseline. They don't know about each other. They're standing here in the Storting saying that there's good coordination here. I have a question tomorrow to the Minister for Fisheries about the very same thing, but he is going to say the same thing as everyone has said. But they don't have an overview, and there's one thing that the Coastal Works must soon admit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1270	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1273	Unlike the previous speaker, who participated in the same demonstration as I, I have an opinion of this matter that is not in accordance with the majority of the Committee on Transport. Let me first underline that I support the organisational changes proposed, and the desire to improve the Coastal Coastal Coastal Safety and also that of modernising the public sector in that organisational process. However, as an oslo representative, I would like to point out that we from Oslo have reacted in the way that Stortinget is now dealing with the Coastal Directorate, not least their employees. With today's treatment, the department gets a clear signal to move the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund, i.e. out of Oslo, after a very brief procedure, and there is a discussion on how the matter has been resolved. I also want to add that at the previous rounds of political discussions, where the possible relocation of state institutions has been discussed, both government and government have concluded that moving jobs from one place to another rarely – at least to a small extent – solves employment problems or, for that matter, any kind of problems. It is true that today's modern workers who have to leave also have spouses and cohabitants who need a job. That's why this becomes much more complex than moving some jobs. In relation to press areas, this is also about moving an institution from one city to another. And considering that this is a matter that emerges without having had the fundamental discussions about the relocation of jobs, it is relatively alarming. The Coastal Directorate represents a maritime competence, which is also part of the maritime environment and the industrial environment in Oslo. That it is now possible, after a very brief procedure, to tear this institution up from Oslo and plant it in another coastal town, obviously regrets the political environment in Oslo. We should also maybe sometimes think that workers are people that we have to treat in a proper way. In this case, employees feel very strongly that they are standing on the sidelines and are seeing that this house decides that their jobs should be moved. I would therefore ask as much as I can, that the further process take place in close cooperation with the employees and their organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1284	I will not ask the same critical questions to the Government as the representative Nybakk did from this interlocutory when it comes to the government's handling of this matter. On the contrary, I will give the Government the honor for the work that has been done. Through some press releases, the representative Ola Røtweg has also expressed some of the Government's views, which I fully share. I think the Workers' Party has done a good job in this matter. With regard to the statement by the representative Bastisen that Ålesund may not be the place to move the Coastal Directorate to, I must say that I do not fully share that point of view – and nobody is surprised. What's done here is very important for this directorate in terms of the business it's going to be doing. You now move a directorate into the area where it has its core business. There are great opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations in order to organise activities along the coast as needed. The collection of shipping functions around the Coastal Works in Ålesund is also a very important matter. It is actually possible to obtain a gain fairly quickly with such an organisation as is being carried out. It's very important that you get closer to the market or the area you're going to organise, and not necessarily have everything here in Oslo. This country, after all, has a very long coastline, which is a little longer than the Oslo Earth itself. By moving the directorate to Ålesund and reorganising the Coastal Works, there is at least one thing that is certain: with the environment up there there are great opportunities for good recruitment, there are high levels of competence in the subject areas that you need in the future, and one also has an environment with which you can play and cooperate, so that this work becomes as effective as possible. I am absolutely convinced that when this relocation takes place, and it should be done quite quickly, it will result in that we get even more out of the money spent in this field. The only thing in this case that surprises me when I read the setting is the Right's need for further investigations in this case. I just have to say that surprises me. Fortunately, it is a majority of the Committee that does not support the proposal from the Right so that the move can take place fairly quickly. I hope that this happens really quickly, so that the organisation is maintained in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1297	Most of it has been said in this case, and I think it is a matter that gets a very ridiculous solution. What made me ask for the word, however, was a comment from the representative Nesvik, who was having trouble understanding the right-wing attitude. Let's say, when it's about the location and the pace of this, we're not disunity. Ålesund and Kabelvåg are good locations, which I will not go further into here. The right-hand counter-adjustments have gone to the other parts of the work done by the Government, among others. what has been shown in the past today, that we have seven departments dealing with coastal management, and that it is impossible to get effective management out of this. In addition, there is a clear need for better organisation and financial management, and for the increase in fees that we have seen in recent years. It is clear that this can be done in retrospect, and these are things that the Minister for Fisheries also pointed out that he would look at. The thing that Right's criticism and our proposal to get more distribution goes on is exactly these points and these moments. Here we feel that the Government has not done enough work. But we're confident that when we start with a shift, we're going to have to take the other sides afterwards. And as I said, the move to Ålesund and Kabelvåg has our full support. What is now happening is a strong appreciation of the strong maritime environment and the long traditions we have in Ålesund district to operate with such activity. We're going to enjoy this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1304	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 2130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1329	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1338	Only a few brief notes on Document No. 8:20 proposal for debt cancellation in transport projects. Per. On 1 January 1999, toll companies in Norway had a total debt of less than DKK 9 billion. The maximum tolling period for the projects shall be 15 years, with the possibility of extending the five-year period if necessary and the rates may be increased by up to 20 pst. in addition to the price increase. I would like to stress that all toll projects are based on local initiatives and local decisions. We have three models for toll collection: we have pre-claims, which are used in many contexts in connection with the holiday relief project, we have parallel collection, i.e. toll collection at the same time as one builds up the road, and we have post-claims. As a result, the situation will be different for the various toll companies in terms of the burden of debt. In the case of national road ferries, the annual costs related to the operation itself are approximately. DKr 1.9 billion. The annual cost of capital is approx. 25 pst. of the total costs. The total amount of debt in the ferry operation is approximately. SEK 2.2 billion. The ticket revenue of the ferry company amounts to approx. two thirds of the revenue of the ferry companies. These revenues have decreased in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to: Congestion of heavy goods vehicles. I would like to stress that in the years to come, enough ticket revenue will also decrease while the need to renew the ferry increases, and in sum, this will mean that the State's subsidy share for ferry operations will increase. In the event of the cancellation of all liabilities in the ferry business – if one maintains the current grant share of the country – the overall tariff level could be reduced by 20-25 pst. in relation to the level of the day. If one were to choose a model where a holiday ticket was not paid, it would be necessary to increase the grant share from the country by 400 to 500 million. kr per year. Therefore, the majority’s conclusion, all with the exception of the Progress Party, is that, following an overall assessment, it will be difficult to implement a debt cancellation for eligible national road operations and the existing toll projects without having a significant impact on future investment projects. The majority show further in the setting, among other things. that there are toll companies which have raised a relatively high debt burden in relation to the income base, and in that context ask the Ministry to monitor the development of these companies in terms of the debt situation, and to return to the Stortinget with measures if necessary. With these words, I would recommend the vote on the motion for a resolution calling for Document No. The 8 proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1369	Document No 8:20 the proposal for the cancellation of debts in public transport projects is intended and presupposes that this debt cancellation leads to the removal of tolls and/or ferry tickets by travellers on the route in question and also refers to the cancellation of debts on the Gardermoban. The Christian People's Party indicates that all toll projects are locally initiated and adopted, and I refer to the majority's observation that the toll projects are very different, with after-sale collection and different combinations of pre-collection and parallel collection. This also leads to a different burden on toll companies, and such a system could create a great deal of discrimination. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will show that some toll companies have raised a very large debt burden in relation to the income base, and together with the majority we ask the Ministry to monitor the development of these companies in terms of the debt situation. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation. So to case no. 6, Document No The 8th proposal on alternative routes to the port of Bergen. First, I have to be allowed to praise the Progress Party for the historical look back to 1070 and Magnus Lagbøter, even though Bergen Hafenvesen did not come until 1735 – a funny approach and a lot to learn in the future if this becomes the approach angle in several Document No. Eight proposals. In a letter dated 31 April 1994, the Ministry of Fisheries confirms that the issue of the route must be dealt with later if it appears to be necessary. Well, I guess evolution shows it to the extent that it does. The opinions of the Ministry of Fisheries v/the Council of State dated 24 January 2000 indicate that a pilot project is being carried out by the Road Office in Hordaland and the Coastal Agency in conjunction with local and regional authorities in connection with the possible establishment of alternative entrance links to the port of Bergen. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is noted that in this respect it is important to find measures that do not impede the development of the port of Bergen. The Christian People's Party, along with the majority, expects the ministry to come back with a recommendation. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1388	Document No The 8th proposal by the representative of Bastesen, which is under discussion in Innst. S. No 129, I have a very good sense of it. I am too much of the debt cancellation that the representative Bastesen is in favour of in his proposal, and I would have supported the whole proposal if it had included only toll stations and not ferries and everything else. I think it is rather sad that the state today requires a total of 40 billion kroner of car users, and of that there are actually 2.2 billion kroner of charges on bomb roads. The state's current expenditure is well over DKK 10 billion, and it covers both the operation, the maintenance and some investment in the road sector. What's a shame is that there's an ever-increasing number of roadblocks, and soon the state is going to finance any road project with new bombs. And even if the state takes in NOK 2 billion of the bomb charges from the motorists, the operation of the toll stations has become so extensive that an ever-increasing share of the revenues received at toll stations goes to clean employment and not to what it was originally supposed to be going to, namely the construction of new roads. But unfortunately it hasn't been, and we in the Progress Party are very concerned that the bomb charges have become so extremely high in many cases that the tolling stations instead of connecting communities, which were meant to be, have become a barrier in many places. I would like to refer specifically to the spring boom in Sogn and Fjordane, where you are now actually up at a ticket price of 290 kroner/return for a normal car, and there are not many who can afford to take a trip down to Sogndal or up to Fjærland when they are going out with the incredible sum of 290 kroner to pass a bomb. Actually, the road is getting good, but I think it's in the driest shape, and you just get less traffic than what was supposed to be when you do it that way. I would therefore like to address our proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate case to the Storting for a debt extinguishment scheme, within a total of 10 billion. crowns, for public road projects financed by tolls. It is assumed that any liabilities are limited to the liabilities assumed in the projects when they were approved by the Stortinget.» Finally, I just want to point out that I think it's a little strange that when it comes to removing debts on the railways, the majority of people in this room believe that then suddenly it's not about inflation, and then it's not about having too little money, then the wallet is really loose on the inside. I see that the representative Myrli nods, so he is certainly ready to pop up with even more such debt cancellations on the railway if he was allowed to choose freely. So I think it's strange that when it comes to the road, you just have to milk the cars even more, and when it comes to the bomb, you have to milk the cars again, and then you have to take the bomb charge and take it over to the railway again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1404	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1407	The background to my promotion of this proposal was that in the Financial Committee we made a two-way proposal on the table to cancel a total of NOK 10 billion in connection with the Gardermoban debt in order to make the operation profitable. And that was to be done outside the budget, it wasn't even going to be on the state budget, it was kind of something you had to do next to – a thing like that under the table layout. It was supposed to go unattended, there shouldn't be a debate about it, and it was supposed to happen quietly, as you do when no one should know about it. I got a little annoyed at first and saw the other time, and then I decided that this was going to make a little bit of a change to make it clear how different there is on people, how much difference there is in thinking about money spending in central strokes and money spending out in the districts. In my previous post I mentioned the world's longest tunnel, which was cheaper than the exceedances of the Rome Gate itself, because the tunnel is not in the 10 billion. The reason for using 10 millilitres of kr except the budget was that it was not inflationary, because the investments had already been made and had no significance for inflation in this country. And I fully agree with that justification. Then it was very natural to promote a similar proposal to cancel debts further around the district of Norway. The recommendation states that the Ministry has replied that the total debt of all toll companies is NOK 9 billion, i.e. less than NOK 10 billion, and the total cost of the national road ferry operation is NOK 1.9 billion. It seems that the Committee has not found that it is equally important to obtain reasonable transport and road passages in the districts, but between Gardermoen and Oslo a large-scale funding should be provided. At the bottom of the setting, on page 2, it can be seen that if travellers are not to pay a ferry ticket, it will be necessary, in addition to the cancellation of debts, to increase the state subsidy by 400 to 500 million. kr annually. No account has been taken of the fact that a free ferry can lead to a change in the demand for ferry services that may affect costs. So it was a great cross of thought for the department that people could start traveling, that people could start moving from place to place and have the same offer that you have in the Oslo region, that you can sit in a car and drive anywhere. But when you live on an island, you're going to live on an island, and there's going to be the government appropriations and the county's priorities to decide if you're going to be on the elongated island or not. I hope that people who are left in this room understand the reason why I took up this proposal. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that the social economists who sit centrally here in Oslo do not understand the need to have a road link that includes a ferry. I think of the ferry as a natural extension of the road that is national road. And it was just to be lacking that people should not be allowed to get ahead with their goods and in a sensible way bring into the world what is produced, and bring in supplies so that they can continue producing for the benefit of the big community. In this connection, I would like to address a matter, namely the ferry to Lovund, where there are plans to produce 450 000 tonnes of salmon. They do not have a ferry to get the salmon from there, but the ferry is now under construction. Map/territory mismatch. There is a lack of understanding that good communication is also required in the districts. We have just dealt with the national transport plan. In relation to the thick plan, it was said very little about the coast, ports and transport by boat. That is why the proposal was put forward. I think the proposals of the Progress Party are good, and will vote in favour, plus that I will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1425	I would like to associate some brief comments with Document No. 8:20 on the proposal to create an arrangement to cancel debts for public transport projects which charge travellers and which bear heavy debts. I understand the idea behind such a proposal. I also mention in the debate on the cancellation of debts for the Gardermoban, that I understand that there may be reactions in the country when, for one specific project, we can cancel debts in the billions, whereas for the toll project, the road users have to take the cost of increasing toll rates when the economic situation of the projects becomes difficult. At the same time, I clearly see the difference between the Gardermoban project and the toll projects, including. are the toll projects based on local initiative. In addition, toll projects are very different and have different indebtedness. In the toll project, road users take a large part of the road development. At times, this may be a major cost to the firm and not least to the business community. Toll projects have improved communications faster in a region than waiting for government investment. However, due to high toll costs, this may also be an obstacle to developments in the same region. Although, as I have already said, I understand the background to the proposal in Document No 8:20, I find it difficult to support a general system of debt cancellation. The proposal to put a ceiling on the tolls afterwards will also be problematic. A general debt cancellation scheme could also have consequences for future investment projects. However, when we know that there are some toll projects that have a very large debt burden in relation to the income base, it is important that the department follows closely in the development of the debt situation of these companies, as requested by the majority of the committee. My conclusion is that – and the majority say the same – that the proposal for general arrangements for debt cancellation is rejected, but that a toll project with a very high debt burden needs to be followed closely and evaluated in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1438	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1441	As co-rapporteur for the document on which Innst is based. S. No 128, I'm glad that the majority has gone into the main premises in many ways and also, as far as I can see both between the lines and on the lines, agreed on the need for this to be corrected. From the Progress Party, we have done nothing but deal with what the business community in Bergen has asked for for for years, namely to ensure that what was on the ground when you got Askøybrua, that you would have alternative sailing trails, came into place. On the basis of what has happened, one might wonder whether the impression of the Storting has been too bad, by referring to the letter of 31 April 1994, as the majority does. We have referred from the Progress Party to a letter dated 15 December 1999, which, on the part of the Ministry, considers the alternative route in Bergen to be closed. As I read the statement, it is reasonably clear that the Storting is now taking a renewed initiative by asking for a cost estimate and the consequences of such measures. And it's high time. It should have been done a long time ago. But it has obviously been a rather difficult process to start up again what was encountered with resistance in the environment, but as for the business community in Bergen, for the cruise port of Bergen, is absolutely necessary as the vessels become so large that they have to find other points of call if not the Bergen port becomes available. And that's an unusually poor solution for the mountain business. By avoiding entering the Herdlaflak dredging, the state saved approx. One hundred million. kr, which is also shown in the setting. So initially, it's 100 million. kr ready for use when you now proceed with the matter. And I hope that the majority also realize that action is necessary, and that this does not end up as a showbread. But I should like to see a clearer clarification of the time perspective in this, namely the need for progress. On the basis of the clear mandate given here by the majority, I would like to ask the Council of State: How long does the Council of State think that this new review of alternative port options and impact assessments will take? And in what way does the department believe that you will return to Stortinget? Is it in the form of a proposition or a message, or do you have no horizon at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1455	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1458	President! I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1465	Hans J. Røssorde gets the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1468	I asked a question to the Council of State, and I had hoped that the Council of State would have wanted to answer. There are several government councils that might have responded, but it is a government council that is responsible for this document. Then I would very much like to know what the Council of State thinks about the progress of this, because this is urgent for Bergen. It's urgent to be able to continue as a cruise port, and we know that for a number of vessels that are now under construction, it's impossible to call Bergen. Then it seems as if there is a solution to the answer. What the content is, I guess we'll hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1478	As has already been explained in the course of this case, several departments are in the process of investigating an alternative approach to Bergen through Skjellangersundet. How fast these floors are able to work, it is not possible for me to respond on standing feet, but I assume that this happens as quickly as possible, and that you come back to Stortinget with it appropriately. Whether it will be in the budget or as a matter of its own, we will look at how long this will take and the scope of the measures that this must include. But the intention is clear: this should happen as soon as the necessary information is on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1483	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[See page 2131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1497	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1511	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1525	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2132]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1534	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1541	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Odd Einar Dørum will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1546	I will give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. As regards proposal No: One, we won't vote for it now. We will wait for the work undertaken by the Council of State to ensure that such ammunition is not used now, and we will await the WTO position, but we reserve the right to come back to reality at any time in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 2, we'll vote in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1555	As regards proposal No: One, we have the same setting as the center parts. The Council of State signaled that work was being done on the matter and that investigations are ongoing. We will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal. As regards proposal No: 2, I have been informed that UNEP is now trying to enter Iraq, but has been refused. So the United Nations is also in the process of dealing with this matter. I therefore recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1562	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and it is now voted on proposal No. 1 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate an international ban on the use of ammunition containing depleted uranium.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1574	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate an international research programme under the auspices of the United Nations with a view to clarifying the increased incidence of cancer and other health damage among the population in southern Iraq after 1991.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1590	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Defence at the Stortinget meeting on 18 January 2001 on the use of depleted uranium weapons and their possible health damage be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1632	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1659	During the debate, Øystein Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the swiftest extension of the volume of farming from 12000 cubic metres to 15000 cubic metres in the provisions for the rearing of edible fish and fish stocks of salmon and trout in sea water.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1681	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. Three and four from Ole Johs. Brunæs on behalf of the Right. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The store sends St. meld. No 13 back to the Government and asks the Government to come back with a more thorough discussion of the case complex in accordance with the Innst observations. [[2000-2001]] [[2000-2001]] S. No 127
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1704	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The framework will be reorganised to AS by the end of 2001.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Coastal Directorate is being moved to Ålesund by the end of 2001.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1725	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The production department of the refrigerator is converted into a limited liability company.’ The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Left will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1754	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to establish an alternative approach to the port of Bergen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1776	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate case to the Storting for a debt cancellation arrangement, within a total of 10 billion. crowns, for public road projects financed by tolls. It is assumed that any liabilities are limited to the liabilities assumed in the projects when they were approved by the Stortinget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1797	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 February 2001: «The Government asks the Government to consider proposals for consent to the Financial Contracts Act when transferring consumer loans to another financial institution.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1811	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 February 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 6 February 1996 to submit proposals for a violent victim fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1829	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 9 February 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the system of compensation for victims of violence after four years in order to ensure the best possible basis for the compensation scheme to provide victims of violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1835	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1842	Jan Simonsen – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1845	I would urge the representatives of the Progress Party to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1850	That is when the proposal is voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1861	The President understands that there are some who have voted incorrectly, and the President will propose that we take a new vote. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1866	President! I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote in favour – just to clarify it!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27.ana.ud537e1873	Then it'll be mooted again.
