ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e50	President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and representatives Jon Lilletun, Anne Brit Stråtveit, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Rikke Lind, Einar Olav Skogholt, Per Roar Bredvold, Karin Andersen, Leif Lund, Lodve Solholm, Petter Løvik, Steinar Bastesen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa and Ane Sofie Tömrös, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder counties: Rolf Terje Klungland For Hedmark County: Nils Amund Røhne For the Northern Provinces: Lisbeth Holand, Bears Olsen and Kari Bridevoll For Oslo: Ann Kathrine S. Tornås and Anders C. Shaastad For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad For Sogn and Fjordane County: Håkon Giil For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen From representatives Eirin Faldet and Anita Apelthun Sæle there are notices that the allowances granted for the period from 23 April to 26 April are amended to cover the period from 23 April to 25 April and the period from 24 April to 26 April respectively. – These messages are taken into account. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson on leave of 23 and 24 April to give talks in Amsterdam and The Hague after an invitation from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Gunhild Eyeågen from 23 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Centre on leave for the representative Tor Nymo on 23 and 24 April to take part in the election of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the elections in Montenegro from the representative Einar Steensnees on leave on 25 and 26 April to participate, after an invitation, in official visits to Cuba from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Gunn Karin Gjul from 2 May to 10 May to 10 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representatives, for the Rogaland County of Olaf Gedrem, for the District of Troms Rita H. Roaldsen and for the South Tributes County of No Balstad and Joar T. Brobakk, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e202	Olaf Gedrem and Rita H. Roaldsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e207	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e212	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e219	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen has been unanimously elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e236	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party 15 minutes each, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and forward lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e245	This spring, it has been shown that the Norwegian Foreign Administration is in a serious crisis. The case-handling time for many cases has become totally unacceptable, the administrative procedures in the UDI have been strongly criticised. The information flows of applicants and UDI partners have also been strongly criticised in a number of newspaper headlines and articles. The papers have been a lot this spring, but I believe that many of the biggest representatives working on immigration issues also know that the e-mails with individual items and experiences have been more than the number of newspaper essays. Because it's like too many people feel like we have a foreign system that's gone totally by the wayside. The practice of the asylum legislation itself has also been criticised. This, of course, takes place in the light of changes that have taken place and in the light of a high intake of refugees and many asylum seekers in recent years. But the picture is that there is a need to do a lot to get the Foreign Administration to work. The settings we treat today are based on St.meld. No 17, ‘Norway asylum and refugee policy’ and Document No. 8:67, a suggestion from Odd Einar Dørum to ensure better protection for persecuted women. It deals equally with a number of issues that have not been addressed in the Government’s main message, with the address of developments that have been linked to the Foreign Administration in the last half of the year, and which are to a small extent reflected in the notification. In this way, the notification becomes only one of the three supports being processed today. Despite the fact that the government issued the notification of asylum and refugee policy before Christmas, in the last three months the same government has seen a lot of new grips due to developments. They have proposed major changes to the rules of procedure of the Foreign Administration and notified changes to the laws to reduce the length of proceedings. It is announced a full review of the Foreign Affairs Act, and it is announced a full consultation review of how the Foreign Affairs Directorate works. The background to the notification is a decision taken in the Storting in the course of the examination of the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs in the autumn of 1999. At that time, a review and evaluation of refugee and integration policies was requested, with a main focus on bottlenecks in the treatment of asylum cases and settlements in municipalities, as well as a review of municipal compensation schemes. In part, we have received it in connection with the budget in the autumn, when the integration grant was increased. But let me first say that in the case of parts of St.meld. No 17, and large parts of today’s attitude, there is quite a broad political consensus. Firstly, there is the need for a better integration policy. The Committee wishes to go beyond the Government in terms of strengthening the situation of the sole asylum seeker, both in reception and in relation to municipalities. The Committee wishes to press ahead with recognition systems and practical competence testing and supports the proposal for compulsory Norwegian training. On a number of other minor points, the Committee is more or less unanimous; on some points, the Progress Party does not endorse it. I assume that they are going to present their entire immigration policy in their own contributions. The fact that there is no political conflict related to these issues does not make it any less important. There's a dramatic need to do things in this area. Better integration is better – and good economics – for Norway. The recent ECON report refers to the high potential for gains in the Norwegian economy by integrating asylum seekers and refugees more quickly. One operates with as much as 50 billion DKK saved, or won, in the Norwegian economy for the next ten years only by a faster integration of the asylum seekers and refugees who are already here, or who came to Norway during 2000. So if the next ten years are integrated at the same level as Western immigrants, we'll be able to make 50 billion. These are, of course, many such calculations, theoretical calculations, but the point of them must be that they provide such clear indications of what we can achieve by ensuring that asylum seekers and refugees become self-held and integrated into the labour market as quickly as possible, instead of continuing the ‘clientisation’ and the pass-on that is taking place today, both at the reception of asylum and at the establishment of municipalities. I feel that the Storting through a unanimous committee in this setting is important. There is therefore also broad support for the establishment of an introductory programme in the municipalities, although questions may be asked by the committee on whether the framework around it is sufficiently clear in relation to cooperation between municipalities and Aetat, and in other areas. It is also the case that housing problems are reduced if you get a fast entry into the labour market. There is no doubt that persons who are already at work when they are settled or who are soon to become resident are giving the municipality an economic advantage, as the integration grant is currently designed. When it's mainly focused on other parts in the setting, and I'm going to do it in the rest of my post, it's because of the critical situation we're in relative to the foreign administration. Last November, 25 000 cases were pending treatment. Per. On 1 April this year, a little over 25 000 individual cases await treatment. In the last five months, therefore, there have been no minor residues, despite the fact that the transfer problems associated with asylum inquiries should now be over and despite the fact that the reorganisation recommended by the State Consultant at the beginning of last year should have been carried out in order to work better according to those principles. Nevertheless, there has been no decline in the balances. And it's important to remember that there's man-made these piles of things are about. This applies to children who have waited for over a year — a year and a half — to revisit their mother who has married and travelled to Norway, to grandparents who have not seen their grandchildren, and to asylum seekers who came before the asylum interviews were transferred to the UDI, so that matters have been given low priority. Now I have deliberately avoided mentioning the single examples that are really shocking, namely children abroad who are seriously ill – things that have been documented in some of the statements – and who are waiting, or who have actually died. There are difficult and simple things about each other in these piles. The principles of priority do not work very transparently. When Stortingen dealt with the message of human rights in the autumn, I said that for some people the meeting was experienced with UDI as Kafka's description of the bureaucracy in «The Castle». Although UDI has now prioritised better telephone service, it is still felt this way for many. For me, it's a cross of thought that very many of those who make contact with us are Norwegians who marry foreigners, while we know that very many of those who have equal problems are non-Norwegian citizens who live in Norway, waiting for visits and family reunification. They do not complain in the same way, but they probably have such a big problem and may have had it for much longer than many of those who contact them. That is why it is essential to bring down the process time to improve asylum and integration policies, but also to make Norway a better country to live in as a multicultural society. This is because there are a lot of Norwegian youths who each year travel and study in it – as I say – the most loving time of their lives, the time you meet others you might want to have a lasting relationship with, but who experience the meeting with the Foreign Directorate and our foreign regulations as very difficult. It is that we are part of a more global society, and people expect a Norwegian bureaucracy to work more effectively than it is today. That's why one of the most important things we do is to bring down the trial period all over the place. Although the government has had quite a clear back cover in Stortinget to give priority to asylum and labour immigration issues, I would say that it was also in a picture where family reunification matters took five months, not 15 months. It has almost been the case that for each month that has passed, the treatment period for family reunification has also increased by one month. That's why there's also a difference in the Committee's view of how hard you want to push to get something done. The difference goes between the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which wants to have a review of short-term measures in the revised national budget, and the other parties, who want the Government to present a slightly more detailed review in the revised national budget, and proposes it. What you want from a minority is a review of the actions taken to make the UDI work, as well as a timetable for further work on long-term changes to the UDI, immediate action to phase out the balances, priorities between issues, other short-term remedies and a review of resource needs to achieve this. The minority does not ask for a conclusion on the consultation review and the long-term changes, but what we are asking for is to get on the table the short-term measures and the timetable for the long-term changes. In addition, it has wanted to set a target for recovery by 1 January 2002. I see that the majority on Stortinget does not have the same need for speed in these matters, but I would like to remind them that the people in the file piles probably feel that it is necessary to get the pace up – and get it up quickly. In addition to the issues of the functions of the UDI in terms of the processing time, it is also stated by the Government that a full review of the Foreign Affairs Act should be carried out. In this context, the Committee has also set out in its opinion certain guidelines for the review of the Foreign Affairs Act. There are two special ratios. One concerns the issue of the border between protection needs and the grounds of asylum of the refugee Convention and a review of the practice of the borders here. It is a theme addressed to the Committee of several organisations. It's taken up by the Refugee Council, it's taken up by the NOAS, and it's taken up by Amnesty International. They believe that there is a need to have a foreign law that actually gives residence as a refugee for those in need of protection, and not for a narrow convention justification, and also a pedagogical need that I can see from some of the proposals put out in the Chamber, namely that there are people in need of protection who actually get to live on a humanitarian basis. It's not like everyone who gets to live in this country on a humanitarian basis gets it because they're immigrants, or economic refugees. It is also the case under the law today that a need for protection can provide a basis for humanitarian stay. That is why we have also launched the question of whether we should have had an intermediate category to solve some of the pedagogical problem. The second lead compared to changes in the Foreign Affairs Act, where the Committee wants a faster pace than ‘a review of the entire Foreign Affairs Act’, concerns the issue of gender-based persecution. There are quite a number of clear signs that the changes made in 1998 to protect women being persecuted for gender-based reasons — first of all, women — are not working well enough and that there is a need to review both law and practice. This is also what Odd Einar Dørum has proposed. The Committee does not endorse the proposals made by Odd Einar Dørum as such or those made there, including: a. on the resumption of all cases. That's not the majority for that. But we want to review the laws, regulations and practices, and that it should come as an independent matter or integrated into another matter, but at a much faster pace than ‘a review of the whole law on foreigners’. If it is true, as some of the issues that have been raised indicate, that there are too few to be dealt with in relation to what is politically desirable, this should be dealt with as quickly as possible. In addition, it is important to keep up with international developments in this area. There are several countries that have moved in recent years towards providing better protection for women such as women. a. are persecuted by the families of former spouses with threats of adultery, where it is clear that countries will not be able to protect them from possible revenge, or where the State itself punishes these acts of revenge, as one sees in some countries. Then to the integration policy. It is important for the Committee that integration policy should start when it comes to reception, and that integration policy should not be delayed until the moment of settlement in a municipality. This is why a great deal of attention has also been paid to the way in which receptions should be designed in the years to come. We have agreed – and perhaps deepened – on the idea of organising reception in the years to come, that there must be some receptions that are more predictable than they are today, which have more competence and can be used as a base of competence in the event of rapid construction or rapid degradation. Some of these receptions should also, in the majority’s view, have a strengthened function in relation to those with major mental problems. There is a need to have some reception within a framework that allows an enhanced offer to be made. In addition to all these issues, we have raised a number of questions related to sociable asylum seekers and other issues that have been debated in the United Kingdom in the past. I don't have any more time to go into the individual things, but I'll be allowed to address the suggestions that the Right is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e296	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e301	The alienation system has gone ‘in chaos’, said the representative Erna Solberg from the Right, and I actually agree with this slightly rough description of the system. So we are in a situation where the country has major problems in achieving a good integration policy for immigrants, especially from outside the EEA. Many of these also have major problems in getting into ordinary work and living. The other day, the Right promoted a proposal that, in practice at least, would result in Norway getting free immigration of labour from all over the world. One can only wonder how the Right’s proposal would affect increased immigration to Norway from, for example, Norway. non-EEA countries. Was that, in fact, the proposal of the Right in particular well thought out in relation to the problems we already have in getting better integration into the labour and housing market of asylum seekers and refugees who have already come here? Right should be able to explain how this is related. We have to assume that their proposal, if adopted, would mean a considerable pressure on Norway when it comes to those who will define themselves as immigrants. So in my view, it would have created far greater problems than the problems we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e308	I don't think our proposal would have given so much bigger problems than what we have, because I actually think one of the most important things to get into integration is that you get a job. And there is no one who, with Right's suggestion, would come who did not have a job, who did not have a place to live, and where the employer did not take responsibility for Norwegian training. It was integrated into our proposal. What is the problem here is that we have many people who come to Norway and seek asylum, who are long in reception and who get an offer of Norwegian – in some places good, in some places bad. Some people sit up to two to three years before they get into a municipality. Partly the procedure takes so long, so the settlement takes a long time, and then they come into a scheme where they don't get a job right away. What is needed to achieve integration is to get them together and in cooperation with the Nordics to learn Norwegian well, and at the same time to learn a professional Norwegian. You can get a much better integration of it. What I'm wondering is why the Progress Party at all says this. The Progress Party has a number of suggestions in the position, and apart from giving the municipalities a lot more money to integrate, which I believe is necessary in order to get advance party politicians to accept refugees in the municipalities around – despite the fact that the accounts in Us show that there were surpluses, so you have to have an extra bonus to accept refugees – so it is that a number of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting would, after all, work in the opposite direction of integration. And the worst of those proposals is a proposal that says that small children should not be allowed to start in normal Norwegian school. So they have to learn Norwegian by being in refugee receptions and not having sex with other children throughout the entire period, until they can be determined whether or not they can come to the country. In fact, I think it's an assault on young children, and at least it doesn't give you any better integration. For those we know have the best integration of all refugees and asylum seekers in Norway, the families of children are – because young people make contact with the Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e317	I feel reason to pay tribute to the honourable Member from the Right, Mrs Solberg, for the way in which she has dealt with these very sensitive issues of asylum and refugee policy. She has also pointed out that there is an impatient, large minority who would like us to be presented with changes in our policies, and that this should happen more quickly. It amazes me, therefore, when the rapporteur points out, among other things. a. two important areas, namely, gender-based persecution and unaccompanied asylum seekers, that the Right cannot then participate in and support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, where we invite the Stortinget to ask the Government to suspend the implementation of decisions based on the provision of residence permits for women after a break in life and those claiming to have been subjected to gender-based persecution, until the review of the applications has been reviewed. The rapporteur pointed out that the impatience was due to the consideration of individuals. Similarly, we have the principle that single asylum seekers should receive an equal offer with Norwegian children under the care of child protection. Why can't Right-wing support these proposals? Reception for single, minor asylum seekers should be given the status of child protection institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e324	We did not want to go into the proposal to put matters on hold, firstly because there are a number of these issues that are going up in the Foreign Affairs Department. We have taken note of the role played by the majority of the Grand Duchy in these matters, namely that politicians are no longer to deal with individual cases, neither politicians in the Grand Duchy nor politicians in the ministry. That was right-wing disagreement. There are very many members of the Storting who want to do something in all of these individual cases, but we believe that the assessment of whether to put these matters at risk has to be done in the Foreign Affairs Department or in the Department. We cannot go into a single case handling. We always see only one side of the matter. We don't have the competence to take the full evaluation. That is why we have said that our way of doing this is to review the legal and regulatory framework in relation to the objectives of the Stortinget. That review I expect the ministry to also go through the individual issues, because that's the way to get an overview of the practice. But we can't go into and take over the role of government by putting all these issues at risk. In the case of single asylum seekers, we have considered that there should be enhanced reception and better competence in reception. It also works with the Government in relation to some receptions that now have considerably better skills. We have considered that there is no need to transfer child protection legislation to the receptions. We're busy with the quad on the receptions that exist. We are also committed to the single asylum seeker scheme. SV wants you to stop using family positions, which I think is supported by the Center Party. We didn't want to be so negative about it. We have not wanted to declare everything as a foster home, although we believe that direct placement in foster homes is also a good solution. I think we're gradually going to work through these issues in terms of lone asylum seekers. What has been presented by a unanimous committee is a very strong improvement on the situation today. What's in the big message is also a step on the way, and then you have to take one step at a time. But we haven't been prepared to say that the Child Protection Act will apply to everyone. The main emphasis of single asylum seekers is on persons over 16 years of age, and not all persons over 16 years of age in Norway are necessarily covered by child protection legislation, even if they do not live with their parents on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e331	When it comes to gender-based persecution and the desire to ask the Government to suspend broadcasting in cases where broadcasting decisions have been taken on the basis of today’s legislation and interpretation, SV believes that the Right is wrong when they believe that this is to interfere in the role-sharing between policy and the Foreign Affairs Department. This is not about dealing with individual matters. This is a principle which is based on the fact that both the Government and the majority of the population have said that the law needs to be reviewed, and that you don't even have time to wait for a big review, because here you see that there is a gap between what you say politically and what you do in practice. You say women are to be protected, but they don't. It's a political principle, and given that the Right seems to join that principle, it would have been the only right thing to give these women a stay until they had passed through the legislation and got a code that would also be practiced according to what they say is political. Therefore, I believe that the Right is very wrong when they have not joined this proposal. The result of these cases can be quite grotesque, because we know that not many people care about how these women are doing, nor the country's authorities. Despite the fact that they have laws that say that this persecution of women is forbidden, we know that no sticks are crossed to prevent both assault and killing. So finally, the lonely minors: it's also about a principle. It is about the principle that we treat the children of others as being like our own, that there should be no difference between the asylum seekers and the Norwegian children. Could the Right say a little bit about why they want to deviate from that principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e338	For gender-based persecution and questions related to it: I think the situation is a little different in the assessment of these matters in terms of wanting to go in and instruct the Government in the matter of keeping them. We have said that we believe that there has been serious criticism of how it works, but we have not said that we are sure that the criticism is correct. That's a pretty substantial difference. At the moment that we put all the issues to rest and provide the basis that if you invoke persecution on a gender-based basis, you have got your case in trouble for a long time, until a possible investigation and landfill treatment is completed, I think we are doing it wrong. Here there is a different assessment between SV and Right that is in line with the fact that we have not concluded on the issue of the code not being properly practised. I believe that putting all things at risk is a conclusion. We don't want to take that. With regard to the issue of the difference between Norwegian children and asylum seekers, the main difference is that these are children who are here under an asylum application. Many of them have parents who are elsewhere than in Europe. Many travel quickly back to the others. There have been attempts to seek asylum elsewhere. We believe that the child protection legislation and the child protection device are very large in relation to these issues. So it is that we believe that they are in a special position, so that we may have to have our own legislation and system, which the majority in the European Parliament, too, are in favour of with regard to the organisation of these lone asylum seekers – a completely separate legislation and system instead of linking this to child protection legislation immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e345	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e349	As the rapporteur also said, when examining the 2000 budget, an overall municipal committee asked for a broad review of asylum and immigration policy. The Committee was particularly concerned about the detection of bottlenecks in the proceedings and the need to review the compensation mechanisms. We have received such a broad review, and that is the setting of the one we are dealing with today. I also point out that, after the notification was submitted, the Brustad State Council has taken action to improve the procedure. In St.meld. No 17 on asylum and refugee policy shows that the number of asylum seekers and refugees who have come to Norway has varied considerably. In 1999, a total of 10 160 asylum seekers arrived. In addition, Norway accepted many thousands of evacuated refugees the year after the great flight from Kosovo. In comparison, between 1,460 and 2,270 persons applied for asylum annually in Norway between 1995 and 1997, while the figure increased to over 8,500 in 1998. These rapid changes have put the system of receiving asylum seekers and refugees to the test. And we might have to admit that the character of that sample is a little bit below average. Good refugee and asylum policy is for the Workers' Party about solidarity and respect for international human rights. We're dealing with people and individuals, and then it's important that we follow certain rules of play and let human dignity and justice be the guidelines. For the Workers' Party, a good refugee and asylum policy must also be a good employment policy. It is worrying that an overweight of the proportion of the unemployed is those with an immigration background, refugees and asylum seekers. We have a job to do to get the most out of work, and I think we need to succeed better in combining work and language in order to be able to say that we succeed better at all. We must seek to distort the income of newly arrived refugees and immigrants from passive support to active action. Work shall pay off. Language training, work training and employment services are important components here. The aim must be that the stay at reception must be as short as possible. Temporary asylum seekers are covered by the labour law instruments. An overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, points out that we are aware that the Ministry of Labour and Administration is in the process of carrying out a broad review of labour market measures for disabled persons, including labour market enterprises as action organisers. The majority assume that the question of whether labour market enterprises are to offer labour market measures to groups other than those with disabilities will be included in this assessment. Getting started early in working life and language training is important for a good integration into society. Individual competence is strengthened and one avoids inaction, isolation and inaction. The increasing demand for labour that we are experiencing now shows that there are enough tasks and that people are needed. But we don't have to get into a situation where those who have got work are going to stay in the country regardless of whether there's any basis for it, while others have to leave. We already see the trends of that today. We can all agree that too many refugees and asylum seekers are too long in reception. We don't want it like that. However, we must, as I said at the outset, see that the significant increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway over the last few years has given increased time to receive. In addition, there are people in the receptions who have received a residence permit but who are not located in municipalities. The fact that it takes a long time to deal with an asylum application and thereby clarify whether a stay or leave reception and country is not unilaterally negative. It is also about having the opportunity to appeal and to promote new relevant information. It is not least about respect for international human rights, and it is about refugee rights. However, we cannot live with the fact that in Norway we have much longer processing time than for example. our neighbouring country. We also have to do something about so many people staying in reception after they have been told that they are staying in Norway. The Workers' Party is therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party is involved in forming the majority of the new housing model that the Government has now submitted. The government carried out a thorough review of municipal expenditure on housing in the State budget for 2001. As the municipalities there got what they wanted from financial compensation, we therefore believe that it should not now be an obstacle to receiving more refugees. Here, too, the introduction program outlined by the Government in the Storing Message will be great. But once again, it will be easier to succeed in this introduction program the shorter the stay at the reception has been. In recent times, there has been a lot of focus on UDI. As we know, UDI manages a very important area. There are many unsolved challenges in the field of foreign affairs, which we also need to have an opinion on. We all know that it doesn't work well enough in UDI today. It is, as has been said before, excessive pressure on employees and excessive external activity. There is no good situation to have to respond to 2,500 to 3000 telephone calls every day. The twenty people used to pick up the phone would rather have been used in proceedings. We all agree that we need to clean up the UDI. It is in this perspective an important work that the Council of State has already started. Governments have also announced a broad review of the legislation and simplification and simplification of the legislation. The UDI will thus have new leads to deal with, and this, as the Labour Party sees it, will improve the situation somewhat. In particular, on the basis of the negative media projections, the Council of State made a presentation to the Municipal Committee on the situation in the UDI. She will also carry out an external review, as the rapporteur said. This should well be an answer to the criticism and, as we see it, is a positive and satisfactory solution. The result of the review will be 1 August of this year, just over the summer. In the position, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are the majority who say that it is not possible to present concrete solutions to the UDI in the revised budget, which is already presented on 11 May, i.e. in two and a half weeks. As regards Document No: 8:67 on persecuted women, the majority have now asked the Government to review the legislation in this area as well as Norwegian and international practices. The review shall be the basis for assessing the need for any change in practice, regulation and law. The Labour Party believes that the Committee's position balances well between constructive criticism of the UDI, and it gives a majority of the government's policy. In this way, the Working Party is happy with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e392	All parties are concerned about the long process period, but the Labour Party says in a special note that asylum matters are prioritised, and then the unfortunate consequence is long-term leftovers in other matters. This concerns the Christian People's Party, because right here we could actually say yes, both of them. At least our neighbouring countries say 'yes' to both sides without any obvious problem. I would like to ask the Labour Party whether they can guarantee that a small child's reunion with his mother or a wife's reunion with his husband should be treated quickly and without delay. And can the government party sympathize that such people may at least spend waiting time in Norway with their families?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e401	I said in my post that I am – and I think that the whole committee is – concerned about the length of the procedure. I understand that there are many of us who get single requests. But starting to get into individual sheds said the case rapporteur was wrong, and I fully agree with her on that. Therefore, without having any kind of basis and knowledge of the content of the matter, it is completely hopeless to give an answer or a guarantee, as Anita Apelthun Säle believes that the Workers' Party should do. We can never do that from this pulpit, that's what UDI case handlers have to do. We have, as I said, no basis for knowing the individual ships that are in those bunkers. It is clear that family reunification, as has been said, should be a high priority, and then in the Stortinget we get little on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e408	The fact that a government party is satisfied with the Government may be more of a rule here than the exception. Nevertheless, I think that the government party in this context shows little ambition in relation to doing something about the remains of the UDI, that is, the large amount of business that has been there for a long time. I believe that when such a situation has developed, clear and short-term action should be taken. So there is a minority in the Committee that has proposed to get an overview of how we intend to proceed with the long-term changes. I am amazed at the fact that the Council of State has not initially considered exactly the points that the minority wants to be presented in the revised national budget, because it should be a natural part of having thought about how to get a foreign administration to work. It cannot be that you are sitting without thoughts because you have started a consulting review. And then my question is to the representative Aud Gaundal: why is it impossible for the Government to present a matter of priority principles between matters in the revised national budget? Why is it impossible for the Government to present a case on short-term remedies and a review of what resources are needed to achieve it? And why is it impossible to review the measures already taken to improve the functioning of the UDI and a timetable for further work on long-term changes to the UDI? No one is asking for conclusions on the consultation report, no one is asking for results from the long-term changes in the organisation of the UDI here, but there is all this minority asking about, and against which the Workers' Party has been intensely opposed to be adopted, and therefore went to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e415	The majority comment from the Labour Party and the Progress Party also states that we expect the Government to bring some things into the revised national budget. But there is a question of scope, and there are also questions of whether that is practicable. And I think that as soon as the government practically has solutions that will address the situation in the UDI, they will come with them. I think that there will be a basis for deciding on the revised national budget, coming into the revised national budget. But I think in a way that saying that the impatience of the government party is not big enough is going to be wrong, when we know that the independent review of the UDI will be in place on 1 August. And everyone knows that it's pretty short time, so I think in a way that claiming that we're not impatient after solving the situation in the UDI, is going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e420	The representative, Aud Gaundal, said in his statement that we need to request a faster procedure. That's what a lot of this is about. Statistically, around two out of three asylum seekers are refused their applications in Norway and only 1-3 pst. obtain asylum and refugee status. There is a great deal of work to be done in examining applications for all those who are not granted asylum, asylum and refugee status in Norway. At the same time, about one in three asylum seekers are also granted humanitarian residence. One of the criteria for humanitarian stay has been this 15-month rule, which means that if an asylum application is not settled within 15 months, there is a good chance of a humanitarian stay. This may, of course, motivate some asylum seekers to try to keep the treatment period to a minimum, in order to blame UDI. When the problem is long-term treatment queues, why worldwide do you have legislation that motivates you to end the treatment period? Is it not time to look at the criteria for humanitarian stay and should not this 15-month rule be assessed in more detail? The Party has a proposal that it should reject clearly unfounded applications and that they should not be subject to appeals. We're on our own. I think it's strange, because it would lead to fewer applications being anchored and used resources. So here are many proposals in which you could benefit from and support the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e427	I said in my speech that in terms of asylum and refugee policy, we must remember that we are dealing with human rights and refugee rights. I also believe that if Norway were to have a completely different policy than, for example, a different policy. The rest of the Nordic countries, that would be wrong. That's why I don't want to say here and now that the 15-month rule has to change. However, we have seen that one of the reasons for the length of the procedure is that many asylum seekers who are finally being rejected do not travel. We also see, in relation to those who came from Kosovo, that many anchor on a humanitarian basis. This is a reality of the problem. As I said, I don't want to say that where one sees that there are perfectly obvious reasons why they shouldn't be allowed to be here, we won't be dealing with their applications, it'll be too easy in my opinion. For this, you have rights when applying for another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e437	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e444	It must be very obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e448	It was not a question of refusing to deal with an application, but of refusing to deal with an appeal in the event of a rejection of an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e453	I will admit that I then misunderstood. I have heard the problem that if you come from Sweden, you have to sort of refuse to apply before entering the country. When it comes to appeals, you have to be allowed to provide new information that you may not have in the first place. So excluding people's appeal will, in my opinion, undermine legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e460	The misunderstanding was then clarified. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e465	More refugees than ever are forced to leave their homes and seek security in other countries. There are between 35 and 40 million refugees or internally displaced people on the run in the world. Much more needs to be done to prevent war and conflict, to focus on conflict prevention, reconciliation and methods of protecting human rights and democracy. The dream of escape is one of the greatest human tragedy in the world society, and Norway must take its share of the burden. I've met some of the unfortunates: an old woman in Croatia who had lost two sons, home, home, future and hope. We're not poor at all, she said, even if we don't own anything now, we're not used to living like that – and I understand that. Or a refugee girl who offered in a chicken cage-like case in Hong Kong. There was only one way across the network, it was back to Vietnam -- a Vietnam that failed to be a softening, has only one party and where the surveillance is total. Tragedia is heartbreaking. However, even though 1999 was the year when more than 15 000 asylum seekers arrived and evacuated from Kosovo to Norway, Norway is not in a state of flurry of asylum seekers and refugees. For many years we have been down to 2 000. And we can't count on the extraordinary situation in Kosovo to be normal. The larger numbers in the last two years have not affected our receiver, and it has created unacceptable queues and long waiting times in reception. It is negative that refugees are overrepresented among recipients of social unrest, and that unemployment among them is higher than normal. We need to be able to do something about this. And it's not irrelevant to remind other countries, among others. municipalities in Denmark visited by the Municipal Committee have managed to employ their immigrants and refugees for the benefit of both parties. Work for a job-seeker is healthy and self-conscious. And for refugees, it means effective language training and integration. All measures to get people out of reception and into a normal life are therefore positive and have the Christian People's Party's support. The long queues in the UDI are and become unacceptable. Last night, again, I experienced a telephone call from a desperate Norwegian citizen who has bided 18 years in Norway after escaping from Saddam Hussein. He married a Kurdish girl in Jordan in January, she is almost out of medical practice. He does not get her to Norway because the trial period in Norway is long. She only has a tourist visa to Jordan, and it expires in 14 days. If she travels back to Iraq, she is the wife of a social enemy. Her husband, who is well educated, has a regular job, has a house and home in Norway, is an active Christian, thinks he will never see her again. 260 people were executed in Baghdad last week. So the case trial period in Norway can have dramatic consequences. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable. It must be possible for the authorities to distinguish the bunkers so that simple matters about family reunification or family visas are quickly granted. The Christian People's Party is concerned if not the measures launched by the Government on 21 March, which would just make it easier to get family members to Norway while the family reunification issues are being dealt with, have consequences for such matters as I have cited. I hope that there will be a lot to say about such matters, because it would be inconvenient for us to avoid such requests in the future. Of course, individual cases cannot be dealt with from this chair. That's not what I'm doing either. But they clarify very well the problems that many people face. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has announced a review, an evaluation, of the UDI, and that it will be finished in the summer. However, it is urgent, and therefore ask a majority in the Committee that the Council of State should already present in the revised national budget proposals for immediate action to reduce the number of cows, which could lead to curative matters being dealt with in a short time. I would like to remind the councils of a council that the Christian People's Party gave her when we deal with the issue of labour immigration. It must be possible, on a discretionary basis and without abandoning the principle, because of miles of rest and inhumane waiting time, to be a little more plentiful than one in practice has ever been. We need workers in this country. There is something mobilbious by sending out a worker in a key position in an enterprise because one is not sure if he or she has grounds for asylum, one that can Norwegian, one that has a network, job and enjoys here, while one at the same time ‘headhunter’s’ neighbor, without Norwegian knowledge and networking, to the job. There can be no disaster if we manage the asylum and refugee areas with a significant margin of security and the principle that it is better to help a person too much than one too little. We need all of them. And honestly, I'm not overconfident that the safety margin is adequate when I meet those who can't get into our country. The Christian People's Party will also stress that in areas such as gender-based and religious persecution, there is a need for a rapid review of our experience to see if the guidelines meet the need for protection. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there are multiples for such a review, and that it is being carried out, but I ask myself questions and worry that the Labour Party does not see the need to act as quickly as the majority actually asked. The problem when it comes to the prosecution of social groups is that it is difficult to document, that it is not necessarily the authority of the country that is the perpetrator. And when it's for women, it's enough that the authorities are passive to the problem. When it comes to those who are being persecuted because of their faith, you cannot expect to get correct information from the police or authorities in the countries in question. Fanatic groups often have free play, and authorities hide or support the obscurity. In many Muslim countries it is very difficult to be otherwise threatening. But also in some countries in Austen, any kind of faith can be attached to the persecution that we hardly have the imagination to imagine here now. Gender-based follow-up is widely treated in the setting. As I said, the Christian People's Party is in a plurality asking for a review of the legislation on the protection of persons who are under the influence of gender-based persecution. But then there are several women who live here in the country who claim that they are being persecuted and who have been rejected. And normal knowledge of the countries from which they come suggests that the claim is not improbable. Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and SV, has taken the Left's Document No. 8 proposals seriously, and we think that we need to take these unfortunate women seriously and wait for decisions to be implemented until one has reviewed the application. I am very sorry that this proposal is a minority proposal. We really don't have anything to lose at giving these few women a breathing room. And when we now admit – as SV also said from the spokesperson – that it is difficult to get full insight into and take all care of these matters, then it may hardly be interference in individual matters to wait with these matters. I prefer the proposal, and I also want to use the opportunity to address the other proposals where the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor. The period of reception should be as short as possible. It is important that refugees receive normal bus and work conditions as soon as possible. While human beings are in reception, there is an absolute requirement that they feel safe. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there should be different receptions, and where some receptions have a special responsibility for people who require strengthened staffing or access to expertise. This is required by the system administrator. It is unthinkable that children should be insecure where they live – after a long and probably traumatic flight – because the person in the neighbouring room is unstable and does not get the help he needs. We want reception operations to be offered. It is also important that refugees are given temporary job opportunities as quickly as possible and that a women’s group, youth services and contacts with voluntary organisations are established. The Christian People's Party will stress that a settlement in a municipality is the beginning of a new life for a refugee. It is, of course, difficult to come to a foreign country, with a foreign culture and a foreign language, but if one becomes effective, it also helps to cope with the situation. I have to skip the rest of my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e514	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e519	The cows in the UDI are unacceptable, says Christian People's Party representative Anita Apelthun Säle, although this is a result of – one might say – a policy that the Christian People's Party and she herself have stood for in recent years. I am thinking about the decoration that happened in the reign of Bondevik. However, there is something else I would like to ask the representative, Anita Apelthun Seele. The Christian People's Party has made it clear in a note with the Center Party that they can imagine giving the municipalities veto in expulsion cases, as the Commission suggested. At the same time, the Christian People's Party in the position suggests that immigrants are to be given full rights, if I understand correctly, without acquired rights in popular security. It seems, then, that the Christian People's Party will have the municipalities raised above Norwegian law in the case of expulsion cases, and also that immigrants have been raised above Norwegian law in the case of rights under the rule of law, exempting them, among other things. for the requirement of 40 years' service life, as is otherwise the case with any Norwegian. If this is true – and this can be understood from the comments in the setting – it is very worrying in my view. Are not the proposals of the Christian People's Party to be seen as special advantages and special arrangements for foreigners, which can cause discontent and anger of more people in this country and which, in turn, could harm integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e526	The cows are unacceptable, and we have a part of the responsibility. It admits the Christian People's Party. We also have seats in the government, and we are also responsible for this. That is why we are so strong in the demands that something has to be done about it. Likewise, we see that our neighbouring countries are able to deal with this in another way. So here, we need to rewrite the legislation so that it is possible for the UDI to handle the matter in a reasonable amount of time. So to the municipalities and the veto: we want a more humane refugee policy in the Christian People's Party. And we know that one needs to place a strong emphasis on people who have a network, on people that the community takes care of and prepares for, because the community also needs those people. It's not negative that they live there. That's why we have these points of view. And I want to show to another and big country, the United States, which has a lot of these rules, and where the community or people take responsibility for others, increases the possibility for them to stay in the country. When it comes to older asylum seekers, they are a serious problem. Many municipalities experience that older asylum seekers who come here and who have been allowed to live in this country but who have not had time to process the dishes that the Nordics normally have pose a problem for the social office and for the local economy. You get a very uneven distribution, because these immigrants don't live the same way in all the municipalities in the country. So we want one other way than the local economy to take responsibility for this. That is what the proposal implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e535	In his post, the representative Apelthun Seele said that some things seem very mole-like, since someone who has a job and a dwelling is not allowed to stay, while one “headhunter” is the neighbor. I would like to ask the representative Apelthun Seele whether she does not see that granting asylum to people on such a basis would break with the institution of asylum, and that this is not really an embellishment of immigration policy. It may hardly be right to grant a humanitarian residence because the applicant has received a job, while the applicants who are so unhappy not to have a job are not allowed to stay. So to the setting, where the Christian People's Party and the SV have managed to agree mostly. But on two points, I have a challenge for the Christian People's Party. One is about the poverty of those who live in reception. Everyone agrees that stays at reception should be short, but the Government admits seas in letters to the Committee that poverty may be so great among some that they do not have the means to receive the health care they are going to have. The SV and the Central Party have made a proposal that addresses the acute poverty experienced by some. What is the reason why the Christian People’s Party does not agree that there is a need to do something about this? The second question is what everyone now claims in their posts, namely that getting to work quickly is important. And to get to work, you need to be offered training, skills enhancement or action. However, when it comes to concrete proposals that concrete deadlines should be set for this, that it should be speeded up, and that, for example, it should be. Four weeks should be the maximum waiting time, then the majority – and Christian People’s Party – jump off. Everyone says the sooner, the better, but we know that in practice it goes on for weeks, months and years. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party in this matter is currently only paying attention to words, and will not put forward concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e546	The Christian People's Party is very clear that the institution of asylum should be maintained and that it should not be eroded. Nevertheless, it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. And what we're asking for is that one is more liberal when it comes to dealing with these issues. Then the treatment will also go faster. It does not mean that a person should be given asylum or abstinence on a humanitarian basis if one does not have a reason to do so. But most of the cases are settled by discretion. And it's molecular to send a person back while a headhunts neighbor. Therefore, for a transitional period, one must be able to be more liberal when it concerns the treatment of the large balance that is there. We demand very much in this setting, and we demand that the processing time be reduced. We thought it was a great deal to require a deadline for them to get to work. That doesn't mean we don't mean that the neighbouring countries that have managed to set deadlines for the suspension do a good job. And we may come back later with both a better economy and a deadline for how long it can take for a person to come to work. But we thought we had to be fairly reasonable and realistic in relation to our demands, and they're pretty big as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e553	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e556	Most of our views are known from the position, so in this post I want to focus on going through some of the proposals that the Progress Party addresses, and provide a reason for them. Let me first address the proposals from the Progress Party, both those in the vote, and those submitted today in addition. One of the most important things that we point out in this position is the need for the 1951 Refugee Convention to be reviewed and modernised. The 1951 UN Convention on Refugees was based on the experience of World War II. It was a completely different situation than the one we now experience at the entrance of this century. There were refugees from war – temporarily – who then traveled back to build up the country after the war was over. Today, I would like to claim that the provisions of that Convention are being abused by a great many people in order to avoid the stoppage of immigration and immigration control in very many countries. It has also been shown that the pressure on the Western – let's say – welfare state, the welfare world, is enormous from the poor world. What was the original reason for the convention, to flee from war and persecution, is today replaced by a large number of people like refugees from poverty and need. That, of course, is very understandable. I have no problem understanding the desire of the many to come to the Western world, because as long as they come here, they are guaranteed a much better standard of living through the welfare systems developed in these countries. Yes, the pressure is now so great that even poor people in many countries pay huge sums to traffickers to get to the Western world criminally. It's also very risky. Last night we saw reports on new refugee ships coming to Italy. We've also read about people who have died in trailers to get to England, and we know that some have also been smuggled into Norway. One of the reasons is, of course, that if you only physically manage to get to a country and express the words ‘I am seeking asylum’, then a guaranteed stay is a very, very long one. Gradually, there has also been a growing chance of bypassing the stoppage of immigration. It is clear that the 1951 old Convention does not properly and rationally regulate the current situation in the world with regard to these issues. Of course, there will be changes to some of the provisions as we get Schengen cooperation in place. We also believe that the Government should practise much more the UN Convention rules on the first country of asylum. Because it must be clear that the vast majority of those who are suddenly in Norway and are seeking asylum have come through other countries where they are obliged to apply for asylum first under the Convention, and we should have returned them there. I think that we should now start looking internationally at the very legal basis of the UN Convention on Refugees and re-examine it – some international conference – and start work within the UN. We are therefore proposing that the Storting ask the Government to work on a revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention, so that it can be adapted to the situation we have in the world today. We have allowed ourselves to propose the development of schemes that place unacceptable behaviour on asylum seekers in their own closed reception. There has been a growing problem around in some of our asylum recipients that many of those there commit crime and behave in an unacceptable way towards others in the neighbourhood or in the reception of asylum. Then there should be an opportunity to prevent unacceptable behaviour, even if there are reports from the neighborhood, if you have some receptions that are closed, especially when we know that from the former Soviet Union and the areas where there are some people who are interested solely in committing crime. They know that they can stay for a long time at an asylum reception, appeal their rejections, and while they are there, they can commit thefts and send the thieves home. There have been a number of newspaper reports about this. It has also been confirmed by the management of asylum recipients and shopping centres in the vicinity. And then you must not just be passive to this, as I think the majority is, but you should set up closed receptions and make it possible for those who run asylum receptions, to ask for the move of people who have unacceptable behaviour, there. We also believe that asylum applications from persons who commit criminal acts in Norway while waiting for their application to be processed must automatically be rejected. I would argue that there are no real refugees, those who flee from persecution, who would risk being sent home again because of crime – they would refrain from it. We feel that we must say much more strongly no to those who commit criminal acts. We also know that there have been many family reunification cases that have not provided proper information about family relationships. We want DNA testing to be the standard procedure to investigate and verify the correctness of the claimed relationship, i.e. whether they are parents or children of someone. It shall be capable of being controlled automatically by DNA testing. Then we find – as we have done many times before – that there are a few of those who come to Norway and seek asylum who are protected under the Convention. It's 2-3 pst. which are, therefore, real refugees. Much of it is so-called humanitarian, which, in our opinion and in our interpretation of the UN Convention, we are not obliged to give. In Norway, we go beyond our obligations; we want to meet our commitments. In order to avoid circumvention of the Norwegian immigration stop and first stay on a humanitarian basis, thereby bringing the rest of the family together for family reunification, we will limit family reunification access to those who are protected, that is, given refugee status under the Refugee Convention, and not apply to those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. Our proposal No. 18 reorganises the responsibilities of refugees. We believe and believe that it makes much more sense that it is a full state responsibility, until those who have stayed in Norway are able to feed themselves through their own efforts at work. A country's refugee work should be given responsibility for refugees and those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis until they can do their own work. There should be one office, one administration, one business that has the total responsibility for the integration of society. Instead of it being distributed among the individual municipal and state authorities, we think it would have been far more reasonable that the state had the full and the whole responsibility, including the settlement around the country, until one could live on its own efforts. I refer to the proposal and what is written in the vote. I also note that the majority still accept that there is a major problem with resettlement, that refugees deployed in today's system in a municipality move quickly to another municipality, usually one of the big cities, and especially Oslo. So, in addition to the refugees that Oslo has agreed to accept, there will also be a second settlement from other municipalities. Other municipalities may then have developed a system to receive refugees and are almost without action if some refugees have arrived and move to Oslo after a relatively short period of time. We repeat our suggestion that you should not be able to move until it is approved by the authorities, or that you can feed on your own labour income and thus, like everyone else, can live wherever you want. But as long as you get public goods and live on public goods, it has to be a scattered settlement, as it's supposed to be. Then we have also submitted a proposal, no. 36, based on the system currently under development in Denmark. We note that there is a social democratic government that is now working to get asylum recipients to work, because going out of work is not a very sensible thing for any purpose. There are workshops at reception during construction, so that they can take on some work and thereby cover some of the costs of organising receptions, and that you can receive valuable language and work training. The fact that people are only asylum recipients for a long, long time and are waiting for a decision is destructive for the individual, and of course it also creates irritation for everyone else who has to work to get the necessary funds for their living. So that they're put into work, would be very reasonable. This is now, as far as we understand, implemented in Denmark, and I hope that perhaps more people would look at this proposal, as it has not been discussed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e589	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e594	This is so, if the representative Hagen also thinks, that historically Norway still has a minus in the accounts for refugees. In fact, there are considerably more Norwegians who, at least so far, have fled Norway than we have received from refugees. Before that, people moved out of the country because of poverty, and poverty is probably the main reason why people come here now. The fact that some in Norway are now moving out is not because they are poor, but because they think they are paying taxes to their home country. But I am a little over the last proposal by Mr Hagen, proposal No. Thirty-six. I would like to hear his deepening of it. It says that he wants ‘a system that allows asylum seekers to be given jobs in their own workshops at reception’. What does that really mean? Does this mean that we are now going to set up state workshops, such as those at the expense of the local business that operates a workshop where the asylum recipient is? So, what kind of design has Hagen really thought that such a proposal would be made? My second question to the representative Hagen is: Isn't it going to be better – with faster integration and also faster deployment – when we get a little more order in the UDI process, so that it can go faster? And isn't it a point that rather than having these so-called state workshops, you can let local employment, which can take much better care of the asylum seekers and the refugees that we have here in the country, bring them in as real labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e605	In fact, I find it alarming that Berit Brørby admitted – as she did at the beginning of her reply – that the main reason for the asylum flow was poverty. If you study the entire UN Convention on Refugees, which is the reason the majority always uses and refers to, is poverty and social distress — or, let's say, differing views on the impact of different religions on the relationship between man and woman — at all, not the basis for applying for asylum under the Refugee Convention. So when the representative admits that poverty is the main problem, she actually gives the Progress Party the right to say that it is an abuse of the asylum institution that occurs when, on that basis, one tries to get permanent and permanent residence in Norway. So the representative also said at the end that when UDI's proceedings go down, it gets better. I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry, because it's been saying different labor party governments, big-time politicians and the Workers' Party for very many years. You refer to something that's going to be. That was said in 1990 when there were major problems, and that was said in 1995. Can't even the Workers' Party not say such things until they have delivered that there is a lower trial period, because there is only a small dream there in the future. With regard to the proposal for own workshops, Berit Brørby will receive a copy of the Daily Newspaper of 9 April, where this is mentioned. So this is what the Danish Social Democratic Government is doing. I know she's always suspected me of doing weird, stupid things, but in the case of a social-democratic Danish government that has good contact with the Norwegian, should that perhaps make any sense? She will now be given the whole reason that stands there, and which is to some extent also supported by the NOAS and by the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e614	Carl I. Hagen does not know whether to laugh or cry by the Workers' Party, which promises shorter processing times, but who never delivers. The problem now is that we are some other people who do not know whether to laugh or cry from the Progress Party, since it is the Labour Party and the Advance Party together who will not be able to press the pace when it is just a matter of having immediate measures presented in the revised national budget to reduce the processing time, and set a target for a shorter processing time in a more normal situation. I'm asking Carl I. Hagen to go through and look at the individual elements that this proposal actually contains, and what you're asking for. Then he will see that all that is fully possible, and all that the government should have had on its table already today, even independently of the consulting review. So a couple of the suggestions that Carl I. Hagen went through. Firstly, with regard to the last question, the crucial difference is that Norway, as one of the few countries, grants temporary work permits – as the Progress Party voted against – to people who are here and who are asking for asylum. That means you don't need any special tools like this. has in Denmark. In fact, similar arrangements can be made in already established jobs, and something that comes into competition with jobs that already exist does not exist. It's another choice that the majority actually made on the Storting, which means you don't have to tie it up. Otherwise, I would recommend – not to be downhearted, because it is a little bit on the side of the thought that has been – turning it into a recommendation, the government can put it into a context and give a review in the Stortinge at a different time when it comes to how this might fit in. But then I have one more question, and that's for proposal 17. There, the Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure a level playing field in public confidence. So some refugees who come to Norway are incapacitated when they arrive. They get the minimum pension. They are known to be disabled, disabled or disabled, and they will never get out of work. Aren't these going to get the minimum pension in the future with the arrangement of the Progress Party? Does this mean that Terje Søviknes will pay out of his own social budget in the municipality of Os, since there are no other forms of compensation for municipalities that actually receive both the elderly and the disabled who come to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e623	First, Erna Solberg said that we are opposed to ‘pressing up the pace’. No, we disagree with irresponsibility. You can't just adopt things here in the Storing and think that something is happening in the real world. And it has been thoroughly explained – at least in our opinion – that working with the UDI is being done by the Government. Even if you want to take a decision here about some time limit that it is practically not possible to hold, we do not find that we want to be part of an irresponsible proposal that is just the coin to become popular outside this house. It must be feasible. Serious and responsible parties cannot act like the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party here do. And we have no problem accepting the reasons given by the Government in this area. Yes, opportunities have been implemented for those who are in the asylum recipients to have a work permit, but in practice very few are being used. And what we're saying is that we think that there should be an obligation that they should be able to be put to work and put to work, when they are asylum seekers here, and that they have an obligation to do so. We actually think that even if there could be some things that would be in competition with business, there could be different simple things done at such a workshop at a reception. It is precisely the right who claims that there is a shortage of labour in this country. So the fact that at least those asylum seekers at a reception that has nothing to do are being put into production work must make sense, because then there will be less pressure on businesses in the ordinary business world, which Right is so busy getting free labour to get sufficient access to cheap labour. I'm just referring to that debate. This we think makes sense, because then it happens under duty, and it's organized by the reception. You also avoid the pressure you would get from an employer if the applications were rejected and the asylum seekers were to be sent home. Then you get rid of that howling and screaming. Then it's at the reception they're doing this, and it would also make a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e632	Our welfare systems are built on a great deal of trust between the people and the social security system. We know there's a part that cheats on more help than they need. That's why we have control procedures and regulations, but not so strict that those who need help don't get it. Similarly, we have a fundamental principle in criminal law that no one is guilty until the opposite is proven. This means that a part that is guilty goes free because we want to be absolutely sure that no one innocent is judged. When there was a need to seek asylum in Norway, the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen will even have a stricter code than for those who commit criminal acts in Norway. They give the impression that there are some, but then some very few, who will be able to get asylum in Norway. Today's setting is limited to 1000 quota refugees. My question is in relation to the situation of these 1000 who the Progress Party will give this ratio. They even find reason to propose a change in the case of family reunification, so that it should not be allowed to grant family reunification until after 36 months. So that means that there are a couple of extremes here that are going to be able to come within our bounds, but they're not going to be given the security, the beginning of a new life in relation to what they've been through, which the United Nations has been doing well. They shall not be given any hope of family reunification until three years have elapsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e639	First to the last question from Erna Solberg: that means that we want equal rules for everyone in terms of popular fear. For many years we have received enquiries from Norwegians who have lived very many years of their life abroad, worked there and then moved home to Norway. They have not received a full minimum pension, because they have not had enough living time in Norway to achieve it. No one in the right or other batches has been prepared to change the legislation for that reason. But now, when immigrants come to Norway who cannot have enough living time to receive the minimum pension, they wake up immediately in some parties and say that then we have to create new special rules that guarantee rights in the population's rights on a much lighter and nicer basis than what has so far been the case for the Nordics. That's what we totally disagree with. It has to be the same rules for everyone. That's what we think is so remarkable, that you haven't had any trouble saying no to nordics who have been abroad for a few years, while you have no problems saying yes to foreigners who move to Norway when they're grown up. That's our reasonable point of view. So ask Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa if that's how we want a more stringent practice. Yeah, that's right. I confirm what I have said in my entire article. We want a much stricter practice, because we know from experience that of those who come to Norway and seek asylum, it's just 2-3 pst. which are real refugees under the United Nations Convention. And if we're first going to accept far more than what are real refugees, we're going to say what mechanisms it is that are going to determine who is going to be so lucky to get to Norway. Will it really be those who have so much resources that they are able to finance their own real ticket to Norway, those who pay smugglers to get to Norway, or those who may commit crime? It can't be very reasonable, so I confirm that we look at the world of reality as it is, and are not as credulous and blue-eyed as, among other things. Mr Kleppa is in this political assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e648	President, a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e653	Mrs Solberg has the floor for a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e656	The representative Carl I. Hagen has misunderstood if he believes that the Right has been involved in the proposal to introduce other rights into the people's rights of immigrants and asylum seekers. What we have proposed, on the other hand, is a reimbursement scheme for the social assistance costs that municipalities have for this type of person. And what I really asked was what Carl I. Hagen really said. But for information, the right has not proposed what he said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e663	Then that misunderstanding is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e667	It was claimed that it was our proposal No. 17 was the basis for the question. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to ensure a level playing field in public security for all’. So it has nothing to do with municipal social assistance payments at all. We have also said in our position and our proposal that we want the state to have the full and the full responsibility until people can feed and take care of themselves. If you have not had enough living time in Norway to obtain a full pension, you will also be charged with buying private pension schemes. We do not want the municipalities to assume this responsibility, as it is today. We want to move responsibility to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e677	All misunderstandings have been resolved. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e682	Norwegian asylum and refugee policy is about human vision. It is a test of whether equivalency and respect are at the bottom of the individual of us in our meeting with individuals who are asking for shelter in our country. It is also a test of whether Norway is equally good at having a clear practice in its own countries in relation to international conventions that we would like to invite other countries to join. And to Carl I. Hagen, the Central Party does not want us to have a stricter law, more rules and less legal certainty when it comes to asylum and refugee policy than even criminals in Norway. We disagree with a ‘Fortress Europe’ and a visa requirement that makes it impossible to apply for asylum in European countries, including Norway, without using professional human smugglers. It's not worth our country. This may mean that we get some asylum seekers who are not real refugees. It could mean that we are exposed to some criminal elements from other countries, and we need a system to deal with it. But we shouldn't cost ourselves a piece of legislation that keeps everyone but real refugees out. Then we're not there for those who really need our protection and who need our help. I am pleased that the Progress Party is all about its views on this, and I am deeply dissatisfied with the implementation of the Schengen Agreement and the consequences we are now seeing of it. St.meld. No 17 gives us the opportunity to discuss the basis of asylum and refugee policy. We can see if there is a match between the targets set and the everyday life as they are experienced. It is a matter which, in addition to taking up government and corruption, asylum seekers and case handlers in some cases, applies equally to the whole community, local people, organisations and dedicated individuals. The message has suggestions for processing in some areas. Case Spokespersons Erna Solberg, with the way she has put up the work, has contributed to the wider range of pluralities in several areas. The centre party will point to some fields where there is a clear need for change, and where it is extraordinarily striking that a government resigned from the Labour Party with all its fine words about solidarity is so tame. The government is satisfied with the situation of single minor asylum seekers. It's not us. This group is not large, the more affordable it would be with measures that provide the individual with a better starting point than today. There is a need for a holistic approach to the child's own premises, not a continuation of ad hoc solutions to customize the arrangements for adults. Practice shows that the vast majority of single-year-old asylum seekers remain in Norway. That's why we want more emphasis on direct construction in the municipalities for them. It is bad that the average waiting time in reception is longer for this group than for other asylum seekers. In an exchange of letters with the Council of State, we have uncovered a fundamental dissatisfaction between the Government and us when it comes to the preparedness we believe to be present. A single asylum seeker under the age of 18 has, in the same way as single Norwegian children, the need for special follow-up, care and ‘predictability’ in their particular situation of life. In our experience, they will have the same offer if they can provide the services of child protection. Rejecting such a starting point means a yes to delay in relation to the security, stability and follow-up required from the first hour to ensure a good basis for delay. The Central Party therefore proposes, together with the Christian People's Party and the SV, that children's reception should have the status of child protection institutions. We are very pleased that the Committee is today in favour of an extended and strengthened protection system, with pay and clear guidelines. There is also a great deal to be done to increase the use of foster parents towards this group, and the Committee, on the initiative of the Centre Party, has asked that those who have our child soldiers in their home country receive the earliest possible follow-up in their management of trauma. The central government announces a review of the criterion «strong human considerations» as a basis for suspension. Unfortunately, the Labour Party has legal support from the Right and the Advance Party that it does not. The central government changed the legislation to ensure women against gender-based follow-up. We also made it possible to ask for a break in life. I will give tribute to the women who have stood up with their own cruel story, and who have given a rigid and unacceptable practice of the law a face. I also want to give tribute to women's networks in Hordaland and Rogaland, to organizations and individuals who care, and who work expediently for solidarity to be shown in action, not just in words. Your greater reason is to say sorry that in the setting today there is no longer any way to come. A broad majority acknowledge that legislation is more liberal than practice per year. date. It is gratifying that there are decisions on the review of the legislation, Norwegian and international practices and the assessment of changes, and a matter for the Stortinget for follow-up. In our view, however, the logical thing would be that the same majority in favour of this, also supported proposal No. 3 from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV to allow for the enforcement of decisions based on today's legislation on the cessation of women after a break in their lives and for those who claim to be subject to gender-based follow-up until a review of the applications has been carried out. It would also support the fact that Odd Einar Dørum's excellent proposal was really followed up. So such a fair handshake as a direct follow-up to the review they now support is not the Labour Party and the Right wants to give. It is particularly thoughtful that the Brustad Council, which also has our Minister for Gender Equality, does not have greater involvement in this field. It's uncovered gravitational and unsustainable conditions in the UDI. This applies both to money use, to the case-handling practices themselves and to the lack of routines leading to an increase in the processing time. It's good that the government here has promised follow-up. The Committee has been thoroughly briefed on this. However, there is reason to point to the urgency of this work today. The Council of State took over a State Consulting Report prepared on the initiative of the former Minister of State. Proposals for improvements from that report should have been made as far as possible, and that is an example of the time when the necessary change is at risk of taking. It was the Labour Party that in its time took the initiative for what has now become the Foreign Study. There will be alarming messages about the practice in the denominator. It is particularly true that this lack of access to involvement by the laymen's side and the feeling that the repeated times have now had, in the short term, been working, of being hostages in a system on which they have little influence. It is the Council of State that is responsible for the fact that it works in accordance with the intention. It is decisive that, in the interests of legal security, it keeps up-to-date, and that it is also open to corrections when requested. The Government shall be commended for its proposals for improvements to the integration effort and for its efforts to ensure faster urbanisation in the municipalities. The agreement between the local government and the local and regional departments is exciting news, to which we have given our agreement, not entirely, but mainly. The government also has a commitment to training and empowerment when it comes to getting more people to work, to which we give our support. We want a strong commitment, and preferably a stronger commitment to today's situation, to secure even more refugees and immigrants working. We've discussed it in this room in several ways already, so I'm not going to spend any more time now. But let me use my last minutes to underline two things: the one is the unused potential that lies in everything called voluntary work to make the first time in Norway even better for singles, a voluntary commitment not as a substitute for the public, but as a supplement. Let me also say that it is important for the Government to note that the supplementary social welfare system proposed in the Equalisation message is in a hurry to get in place. Then the Central Party is the co-sponsor for a proposal that I take up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e716	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e721	It could be tempting to do a little bit more in this about the municipal veto right for broadcasting. It is, in my view, a thorough mix of asylum and refugee policy and labour immigration that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party now stand for, and in many ways it was the Central Party representative Meltveit Kleppa who, when dealing with the issue of labour immigration, recently opened up the dance to be quite a discussion when it came to posting. This with procedural time and therefore also waiting time has been claimed by many teams to be a motive for promoting questionable applications. When, in the form of an annotation from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, we are asked to support a municipal veto right and that the rapporteurs should be able to prevent the deployment of well-integrated employed asylum seekers, the question is raised as to whether the institution of asylum is in fact in the process of putting it on the head. Perhaps it is the case that the UDI becomes a second instance and that, with a certain volume and a long waiting time, the rapporteurs actually become the first instance. If they are able to report useful employment, all other thorough proceedings in the UDI are superfluous. The question to Melthold Kleppa is: how much unnecessary resource use should we have in the UDI if this gets a certain volume? And shouldn't we, as we have done in other countries, put in all the forces and resources to bring down the waiting time to avoid this volume on a temporary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e730	I'm surprised that the Right does not take over that commitment and also the frustration that is in many communities when it comes to today's state. In fact, the Prime Minister and other prominent people on the one hand are calling for a wide-ranging fight against racism, while many parents, many organizations, individuals, and also local folklorists are asking how to explain our kids about equality and respect when it is actually such that some of the kids who go into class with our kids have to be sent out of this country because they are from the wrong country. The centre party's starting point is a softening of the asylum and refugee policy itself. We point out in the vote that there is a need to look at whether asylum should not be given anymore in Norway as well, rather than suspension on a humanitarian basis. That's of course the basic one. And there are applications for asylum and abstinence on a humanitarian basis, which should be the task of the UDI, and the procedure must be shortened. There is no danger that they will be unemployed with the very cautious remark from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in view of the fact that we believe that giving local veto rights should be able to be considered more closely. It would actually be to take seriously some communities that currently have an engagement around individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e735	The centre party Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa preached a generous and – let me say – big-hearted Norwegian asylum and refugee policy. Now it’s like this – and here I think of the problems with the large number – that when it comes to stay on a humanitarian basis and family reunion, I think there were almost 12,000 immigrants who stayed in Norway in 1999. Of these, it was just about. 100 who got granted asylum, so we accepted, I think, about 1,500 transfer refugees, according to the statistics from the UDI. Transfer refugees and asylum refugees represent only 10-15 pst. of the total number of immigrants, if we can use that term in this context, but it thus generates through family reunification and not least the generous system of humanitarian residence 85–90 pst. more than what the number of refugees and refugees and asylum granted actually stands for. When it comes to housing, the problem is the large number of people waiting to live in the municipalities of the country, and they don't want to, it looks like, live in the municipalities in which the Senterpartiet governs, in the small municipalities. It must be time to review the whole system and the legislation both in terms of granting humanitarian residence, and not least in terms of family reunification policy. Today – and many have said this today – we have a chaotic system. It is no wonder that asylum and refugee policy has come out when we see the large number of people entering, despite the fact that we have a stoppage of immigration from 1975. There is no problem of going beyond that stoppage of immigration, especially in the case of humanitarian stay, and more than 9 000 people were on a family reunion basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e747	Whether the representative Torbjørn Andersen characterizes all proposals that are more liberal than giving room for thousands of quota refugees to the country per year. years, like a generous refugee policy, the Centre Party stands for a generous refugee policy. If he characterizes my post and our policy as a strange position in relation to Norwegian refugee policy, it is wrong. If he reads the setting carefully, he sees that here stands the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party in general. We are also with the Right and with the Labour Party in very many proposals. It is such that there is a broad majority who want a review of Norwegian refugee policy in relation to the UN Convention on Refugees. I thought it was embarrassing that the Refugee Council, the NOAS and Amnesty. I must point out that Norway accepts far less asylum in this country than it is natural for us to compare ourselves with. When it comes to the Center Party's spokesmen -- yes, one of them is Kristin Sørheim in Tingvoll, who in his own municipality has registered a broad commitment to leave a family that they think needs help and support and suspension in Norway, to stay in Norway, and who has given full support to the Value Commission's proposal on the local responsibility that, when it comes to the issue, lies in the veto right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e754	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e757	Norwegian refugee and asylum policies have been in strong negative focus lately, and that is one of the reasons why I want to focus my article on the problems. Norwegian refugee and asylum authorities have a major credibility problem and, in the SV's view, this is essentially a political problem. In principle, attitudes and policies of both the Government and the majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, are responsive to refugees, but practices are reprehensible and reflect attitudes that are based on the greatest possible outcome, sometimes almost costing what it will cost. The negative attitudes become grotesque in individual cases, such as: with the three-year-old tuberculosis-sick girl, a matter which has nothing to do with the institution of asylum, but which is only about having a little patience and giving a human treatment until a child becomes healthy. Is it really in line with the government's policy that it should be so? On the one hand, we feel that political leadership ensures that families with children are treated humanely. In practice, the promise is broken, for example: at the Passover in Sollia, Hedmark, where a family of children, who have done nothing wrong or intended to oppose the broadcast, is treated as criminals. The police will be here at noon without notice. 6 elf day to throw out a family of five with baby. Three hours they're packing. Trust is shattered in such matters, including community and individual people who try to give immigrants the belief that Norwegian authorities treat people humanely, are to trust and keep words. This is serious. On the one hand, people who have done nothing wrong are treated almost as criminals, while on the other hand it looks like neither authorities nor police power to put an end to the criminals who make life difficult and dangerous for others both at reception and elsewhere in society. It looks like we have a powerful iron hand on children's families to be thrown out, and a falsifying silk gloves on criminals. The treatment creates the impression that everyone who comes here is dangerous, and confirms negative attitudes. We can't just owe UDI on these issues. As long as the government and the majority do not intervene and change practices, UDI has political back coverage for what they do. For SV, the possibility of seeking asylum for the persecuted person is fundamental. On 31 March this year, First Amanuensis defended his doctoral thesis on Norwegian immigration control at the University of Oslo, Bente Puntervold Bø. The theme was the legal and ethical problems surrounding Norwegian visa policy. The conclusion of the thesis is that today’s Norwegian visa policy is a threat to the right of asylum. Norwegian visa policy prevents asylum seekers from entering before the need for protection has been assessed, and the strict visa policy of the authorities is a conscious tool to limit people's ability to seek asylum and to countries where we know there are people who need protection. It is not illegal to apply for asylum in Norway without a visa, but it is impossible to get here without being a criminal. Air carriers are also penalised for passengers who do not have a valid visa, and without a visa, asylum seekers have to travel illegally in order to obtain the protection we are obliged to provide under the Convention – and then they end up in the hands of traffickers. This is a problem that the Government has not been willing to look at. In the opinion of the SV, the visa policy needs to be reformed and at least meet these two premises, which are not being fulfilled today. As a general rule, relatives must be able to visit each other across borders and asylum seekers should not be prevented from reaching a safe country in order to assess their protection needs. Refusals granted must be legally sustainable. They must be based on individual treatment and non-discrimination of nationalities. Refusals must have a real reason for immigration control and not be general grounds based on experience with, for example: special countries. It is not critical to apply for asylum or to apply for an extension of a stay. Only if a refusal is not respected, we have a problem. The Labour Party Government has had a high female profile and has been identified as a frontrunner for women’s needs and a right to protection against gender-based persecution. And the law is clear, but in practice not enough such considerations are taken into account. Now the government recognizes the need for a review of law and regulations, because the law does not work properly. In spite of that, they will not take the necessary consequences of what they say sail: give women who have been denied old regulations, stay until we have received a new and correct treatment of the cases. Some of the cases may have to be rejected, but we do not know that. The uncertainty has risen, and the Government has actually supported this uncertainty. These women live in fear of losing their lives and being persecuted, and it's real. It's only in action and practice we show that we mean what we say, and that's what counts in such cases. We know how women are treated in many countries. The working party knows that. It is uncertain whether the cases will change the position after new treatment, but I appeal as strongly as I can to the Labour Party today to support the proposal and give these women a chance to stay until we have a new assessment. The foreign student is new. SV has wanted us to have a proper review of the work of the foreign student, and to look at the application of law in it as matters arise, whether it is in line with the Convention, whether it is in line with the legislation, and not least whether it is in line with what we politically believe it should be. We have also asked that the decisions be published there, in anonymised form, so that it can be followed. Unfortunately, this does not have a single majority. The Communication has made new proposals in integration policy. But it's really just the settlement system that's the whole new one, and it changed along the way and got better. Much of what is said in the message is fine, but most of it has the Storting Sea proposal or joined earlier. It is the implementation that is also going too slowly here. Some of the SV have been very critical about this is that both the notification and the treatment of the Storting show that there is a difference between our children and those of others. SV insists that no one should be discriminated against because of ethnicity, but so now a single asylum seeker is discriminated against in relation to Norwegian children without parents or guardians who can take care of them. Norwegian children with the same starting point as single asylum seekers would automatically become a responsibility for child protection. Single asylum seekers have different needs, just like Norwegian children, and should have different measures, just like Norwegian children under the Child Protection Act, but they should have the same protection and assistance as children who are alone. The Centre and the Centre shall make proposals to this effect. One of the things I've reacted most to when you've discussed this is that some government councils in the government have come up with statements that bringing children under child protection is stigmatizing children and almost saying they're criminals. I wonder what kind of view this is of child protection and of those who need help from there. If that's the case, the government should immediately change child protection. No, this is about equal treatment and non-discrimination between our children and the children who come here alone. It is an important and fundamental principle that I believe the government party should have looked at, and I expect that as time progresses, this will prove to be the only right way to deal with it. In the case of work, the Committee also points out that only long periods of inactivity are negative. This applies to immigrants in general, but also to those in reception. The common sense and experience suggest that the majority of people say that the sooner they start action such as skills enhancement and language training, the better it is. It is only SV who believe that one should take the consequences of it, change the policy towards the unemployed and offer what everyone says is common sense. Four weeks' waiting time, for example: on measures or training should be maximum also for asylum seekers. In addition, SV considers it necessary to look at reception conditions, which in many cases result in poverty. It turns out that someone has such bad advice that they can't afford to use the medical services they say they need, and we know they need them. This is a serious health problem, and it can also lead to even greater health problems in society, because we know that some asylum seekers and refugees have diseases from other countries that we have managed to combat here in Norway. Despite the fact that the Government does not support this proposal, I would ask the Government to take this very seriously. It could be that you should remove excesses. There may also be other measures that can be taken to improve their functioning. In addition, I will once again focus on housing policy, which is a key factor in integration policy. Here, there is a much greater need for this to be resolved, and I would like to refer to SV's previous proposal that the state here should take greater responsibility, both practical and economic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e779	The issue is about asylum and refugee policy and a document No. 8-proposal tabled by the undersigned on behalf of the Left. But before I go into these issues, I want to say something about what I believe a number of speakers have affected, namely integration. What surprises me more and more is how little emphasis is placed on normal Norwegian school in the debate on integration. I'm saying this because these days I've been to and from all the colleges in Oslo, and then you actually get a pretty significant insight into what it looks like in a city where 30 pst. Among primary school students, there is a minority background and high percentages are also available in secondary schools. I have also, as a politician in various roles, been sitting at integration conferences where there are social workers, sociologists, researchers, bureaucrats and teachers who are refugee consultants, but to a small extent schoolchildren who are in school. I would strongly like to address everyone in the Chamber, but especially to the Council of State, stress this point. If you don't catch the situation of normal school, and it might be especially true in the cities that have the challenges, mainly Oslo, but also cities like Drammen and Kristiansand, to mention someone, I think you'll fail a lot. So in the setting it's said a lot wise about other conditions, which I'm not going to go into. When it comes to the committee setting, I'll first deal with what's going on in the management system. It's obvious to everyone that it's working under a huge pressure, and there's so many expectations that it's impossible to solve all of the problems. I am pleased that the Council of State has started a work to review this, and that she is taking it seriously. She's promised that before, and I'm just taking note that she's following up. However, I still have the same impatience as that expressed by the minority in their proposal, which has been put forward by the representative Erna Solberg, who says that in terms of cleaning up, it must be possible to sort what you can do in the short term, and what you can do in the longer term, and create a timetable for this and especially look at the remaining issues within a time frame. I allow myself to express myself this way, because with some experience not only from this field, but also from other fields, I think that committing in that way is necessary to get a result. With regard to the issues that have been raised in the Committee on the Situation of the Child, I am pleased that they have been strengthened. I think it's very positive. I am also pleased that there is now no shadow boxing or any disagreement about anything so banal, elementary, important and simple as that the entry key not to Norwegian culture, but to civil and civil political rights in this country, is mastering the language. It is clearly expressed in the Communication and the Committee has joined it. The art is then to follow it up, and that's also why I mentioned the school as strongly as I did. Then it's not enough just to think about the courses, it's not enough just to think about the courses for the women who need it, but the school becomes alpha and omega. The last part of the post will be linked to the Document No. The 8 proposal that I have been promoting, and where I am very pleased to see that in practice the majority of the Committee has called for a review of legislation, practices and legislation. And the rapporteur said at the outset that it was supposed that this had a stronger pressure on itself than the general review of the Foreign Affairs Act. That, of course, supports the Left. I had hoped that the majority had promoted it in practice the moratorium proposal that lay as the precursor in my Document No. Eight proposals, and as the minority from the two central parties, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, and SV have promoted. When I have that vision, it is because, through close contact with a host of asylum cases for many years, I have come to the conclusion that in many ways we have improved with many kinds of things. But the things where I've got a more and more creepy feeling are those that relate to these women. I'm aware that here we also have things where people start to appeal to us that we're a little kind to the heart all of us, and like to try to trick us. But I have had so much close contact with many examples of issues where it is completely impossible for me to bring back the examples of them trying to trick us. I experience in many ways that we may be in the situation that we were in a few years ago, when we almost systematically did not accept that Christians could be persecuted. So we accepted it, but at the same time we were fully aware that it was not enough to be a Christian and say that you came from the Middle East, because then we could get in five million right away. But we moved into the landscape. I feel that in the case of women who are persecuted, we are in the same situation. We're not good enough to capture those who are subjected to real persecution. Therefore, I wish that a large majority had supported the moratorium proposal contained in my Document No. 8-proposals, which today are taken up by the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV. Finally, on behalf of the Left, I would just like to say that we support the proposals that have been made on behalf of the two central parties, the Right and the SV for some proposals, and the minority proposals that have been promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV for others. With regard to the various proposals that indicate that we have both the Progress Party and a party on the right of the Progress Party, it is unnecessary to add that we are going towards them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e805	The situation in the last few years of the field we are discussing today has been primarily marked by the fact that too many asylum seekers and refugees have been in reception for too long. This has led to the failure of integration policy. This is mainly due to the length of time spent in the debate and the difficulty of getting enough housing around the municipalities. This is a situation that nobody deserves. It is therefore necessary to give priority to measures to reduce the duration of proceedings and to ensure a faster settlement. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this. During the year I have been a local and regional minister, major changes have been made in the organisation of foreign administration. An independent complaint panel has been set up for foreign affairs, the UDI has assumed responsibility for interviewing asylum seekers, and I am the first Council of State to be responsible for both control and integration. In the last year, the UDI has prioritised asylum issues rather than other issues in the foreign field. This has been a completely necessary priority, and I am glad that the development now shows that something is moving faster in dealing with these matters, searing if the goal has not yet been achieved. I also share the great concern of the Storting that the length of proceedings for foreign affairs has increased. I refer here to the statement I had made to the Municipal Committee on 13 February of this year, where I announced a review of the UDI. That review shall include, inter alia: look at opportunities to streamline the process and the financial management procedures of the Directorate. The deadline for making offers is today, and we will review the offers as soon as possible, so that the review can hopefully start during the month of May. In addition, as the Storting Group is aware, proposals are being made for the decoration and simplification of existing legislation with a view to reducing the length of proceedings. I would also like to come back to the proceedings in the UDI and how I assess the further work in this respect, in the context of the revised national budget and in the 2002 budget. I'm prepared to turn all the stones to get ahead of things, and I'm like Stortinget very impatient. I would also like to show that I want to set up a legislative committee to update and renew the foreign legislation. I aim to ensure that the sample can be in work by the end of the year at the latest, but as soon as it is practicable. The goal is to get a foreign law that is adapted to the reality we live in today, which includes: must mean simplification and decoration of the legislation, making it easier and less time-consuming to obtain permission to come to Norway. I also want this review to make the women's perspective of legislation more visible and respectable. Like the Storting, I'm busy making visible that gender-based persecution falls under the refugee convention. I would therefore like to take the initiative to make the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act or regulations to clarify these criteria. We will also have to do this faster than the review of the legislation itself, as the Stortinget asks. The Norwegian authorities shall interpret the Refugee Convention in a gender-sensitive manner, so that women have a special need for an ongoing asylum process. In recent times, there has been a strong media focus both on the process and on the UDI. I understand that, as many individuals experience that the directorate does not deliver the services quickly enough. But it is also important not to forget the challenges we face in the settlement and integration of our newly arrived refugees. The measures we take in the first few years of refugees in Norway are of great importance to the success of the longer-term integration work. In addition, the rapid settlement and integration of refugees will entail considerable resource savings for the state, resources that we could have spent on other more sensible things. If e.g. the waiting time for the residence of 10000 persons may be reduced by an average of two months, i.e. reduced expenditure on the operation of government receipts of approximately 170 million. kr in one year. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party has joined the proposal for a new settlement arrangement. I also want to pay tribute to the Municipal Councils' Central Association, which has been actively involved in the design of a model where municipalities take a greater responsibility for ensuring a sufficient number of settlement sites. The new housing scheme, together with improved financial framework conditions, will and should ensure that in the future a sufficient number of municipal areas are available, which will also mean a faster settlement for all groups of refugees. It is therefore difficult for me to understand why there are so many people in this room who are opposed to this housing model – without giving any other alternatives. Why keep a model where everyone becomes a loser? Refugees are losing most of their lives. They stay in a reception for too long, making them more and more disheartened for every day that goes. The municipalities that will sooner or later receive these refugees, which are then more difficult to get to work and in school after too much time at reception, lose. And the state will also be a loser, it's going to have to spend hundreds of extra millions on people who become unresponsive if they're going to be the rest of their lives in Norway. Getting refugees and getting them out of temporary housing and into secure local settings as quickly as possible must be one of our most important goals as politicians in this area. We can do something about it, and I'm glad that it's a majority that supports the new housing model that I think is also quite crucial to succeed with the whole integration policy. An important starting point for good housing is the identification of the individual’s background, needs and desires. Of course, in the settlement work, we will continue to place great emphasis on individual refugee opportunities for work and education. This, I think, will create a better basis for stable housing and reduced secondary migration. But that also means that the municipalities that have had the most secondary migration, in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities, must be able to receive more for the first time. See if we succeed in this, I think we still have to assume that someone chooses to move. The displacement pattern of refugees is largely similar to that of other residents in the establishment phase, and it is not so unnatural when creating a new future in a new country. Some move to get a job, I think it's positive, and others move to places where they have family or networks that can contribute in the long run to safety and aerodynamics. Refugees taking their own initiative and responsibility for their own life situation have been shown to become more rapidly independent of public services. I therefore consider it impractical to introduce provisions which make it impossible for refugees to move where they can get work or training. The government assumes that shorter processing times and faster settlements in municipalities as a whole will lead to shorter stays in reception for asylum seekers and refugees. On this basis, the Government, as you know, is proposing to continue today's system of state reception. However, there is a need to assess alternative solutions for persons with special needs. At the same time, I believe it is a challenge to ensure the quality of reception operations. That is why the Government has proposed to enter into long-term agreements for the operation of reception to build up, maintain and further develop special competencies of the operators and of the staff of the receptions. In addition, as is well known to the Government, a number of measures are proposed to strengthen unaccompanied minors in reception, and I am pleased that the Committee agrees with this. Experience shows that many lone minors who come to Norway have parents or other caregivers in their home country or in another country. The government will therefore strengthen efforts to find parents or, where appropriate, other caregivers in order to ensure that the child can be reunited with his or her parents in his or her home country. I would also like to stress the importance of the municipalities offering new arrivals good introduction programmes as soon as possible after settlement. I've been seagoing, like the committee, in municipalities where newcomers actively participate in society and work in ordinary work or education instead of being referred to social assistance. I therefore look forward to examining and drafting legislation on a new social welfare scheme for newly arrived refugees, and I aim to complete it in the near future. I have otherwise noted the proposal to use foster families for the youngest single minor asylum seekers. It's already done today, but it might be even more useful. I have also noticed the proposal to establish a new type of mechanism for this group and to introduce quality assurance of interpretation services. These are measures that will require extra resources, but which I find interesting. Today, we have major challenges in the field of asylum and refugee policy, and I am pleased with the commitment that the Storting has shown in the handling of this message. However, I would like to stress that not only the state, but also the municipalities, the refugees, and not least each of us, have a responsibility for the success of integration policy. But I believe that with this message and with this setting, we have provided a good basis for a better integration policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e840	On March 21st, the Council of State sent out a circular that would make it easier for families to come to Norway while their case was being treated. On February 15th and March 21st, the government announced some simplifications when it came to Norway in connection with family reunification. This I think is very positive, but in the UDI there is a lot of such family reunions, which it is absolutely impossible to accept for those who are waiting and waiting for their loved ones. What would the Council of State do to ensure that this softening would affect those who have waited too long for the wife?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e847	What I intend to do is to initiate what I have signaled on behalf of the Government, and with which Apelthun Seele and Stortinget are well-known, namely some decorations and simplifications such as: will enable family reunification to be dealt with more quickly than is the case today. Now it is that some of the proposals require legal changes, some require regulatory changes, and some are about practice, and we're going to implement it as soon as it's practically possible. But you have to wait until you change what needs to be changed, whether it's law or regulation, before you can apply it to the things that are there. So while waiting for it, matters need to be dealt with in accordance with the legislation currently in force, but where there is only a need to change practice or to use the guidelines that exist, it must, of course, be implemented as soon as possible. I can only assure the representative that it is working on high gear, as has been done quite a long time now, in order to get ahead on these matters, and we should not be less impatient about this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e854	I'm glad the Council of State says it's working high, and that you have a lot of impatience. I would like to comment first on the question of housing. The reason why quite a lot of parties, and at least the right, have not joined the housing model, is that we gradually thought it was neither bird nor fish. We hear the Council of State's belief that this is the new grip that will lead to more settlement, but the model that is now is a completely different scheme – according to KS then – than the one she herself promoted in the notification. And we've said from the Right that we're skeptical about KS's role, but we think it's okay that KS, UDI and the municipalities are discussing the deployment of refugees. However, we have problems with the fact that it is a national committee which, for some municipalities, among others. a. Oslo, in practice, will determine how many they will receive. But it's not just Oslo, we think there's no connection in the government's policy of housing and integration. On the one hand, emphasis is placed on integration through work, structured Norwegian training and introduction programmes. But then we also have to realize that then each small municipality cannot receive refugees every year. It means, in practice, that there are a small number of municipalities that can accept refugees, and that they have to accept a larger number of refugees at once in order to make these things work. So you didn't take that into account in the setup. Then my question to the Council of State: What is it now, in her opinion, that is left of her original proposal to settle in that model? Is it just the fact that you have to put this on the agenda for the municipalities? There should be a lot of other possibilities. And to what extent will one really be able to focus on preventing second residence, that is, actually – which is our alternative model – to follow more closely what the refugees themselves want? Because we know that one then both gets better integration and avoids some municipalities getting tired of having invested a lot when the refugees disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e863	What I am sure of at least after a decade as Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is that the way we are doing housing work for our refugees and asylum seekers today is not working. The question was, what are we going to do about it? I asked the municipalities what they thought they needed to do in order to make us live more quickly. One of the answers I received then was: More money. According to Storting’s decision, the municipalities got about what they wanted. So what's the situation in the municipalities now? It is not that there has been a spring drop in the municipalities if they have received exactly what they have asked for in terms of integration grants. So what are we going to do? We sat down and talked to the Municipal Councils' Central Association – which I actually believe is very important that we do – which is responsible to the municipalities, and which represents the municipal sector. We have in cooperation established a model that we have recommended to Stortinget. I'm very surprised that bl. This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. Right does not support that model. Because what's going on? Yes, many refugees are in reception for months and years. I am very pleased with the focus and commitment that the committee has, for example. in relation to unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. But if we think that the settlement now goes off without a new housing model in place, which even KS supports, I have to say with all respect that it's believing in Christmas, and I actually don't think we should do that in relation to those who actually stay in reception for months and years, for example. unaccompanied minor asylum seekers who should be settled in a much faster manner. What happens next? UDI must use a lot of resources today to ask municipalities whether they will accept refugees or not. And aren't the Storting and the Committee very concerned that the UDI should deal with the applications much faster? Then you also have to take the consequences of that. I’ve also heard that b. This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The right has been concerned that we are going to spend the money properly. What happens now? We have to spend an extra million dollars a year because many refugees who should have lived in the municipalities in the past will be in reception for too long. In addition, I believe that if we do not manage to get a new grip on the settlement in this country, we will be even less successful in integration policy. I have also seen that the Committee and the Council have been extremely concerned that we should be better off in integration policy. But then one also has to take the consequences of what one says. Then I think it is strange that the Right does not support a housing model that is also endorsed by the Municipal Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e872	I will also allow myself to follow up on some of the things that the representative from the Right, Erna Solberg, had in mind when it came to housing. It was probably originally so that the government and the state council wanted to force the municipalities to accept and settle refugees. But when one had to realize that one would not get a pass on this, one moderated this proposal somewhat. But at least I believe that the proposal still bears the mark of being a kind of strict dictate to a number of municipalities that they should be so good at receiving more refugees. So it's still going to be a national sample that's going to distribute the number of refugees to the municipalities. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks, whether it is still fully possible for a municipality to say the Bastant no to accept and settle refugees. With this new scheme, I think it seems somewhat unclear, and I would like to hear a clarification from the Council of State on that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e879	The government had not imposed any coercion in its original housing model, but we perceived it so that KS would have a different housing model in the course of the March. In fact, I thought that the case was too important to guess which model was the best. What I and the Government were busy about was getting a faster settlement arrangement than the one that is today. That's why, as we know it, we went through dialogue with the Municipal Councils and agreed on the model for which it is now fortunate to be a majority. That is the way Andersen's representative was talking about, that we want it to be a national sample to distribute, if any, in relation to the overall need for housing in the coming year, and that will also define the criteria to be used by municipalities in each Member State as a basis for housing each year. So we're going to say that UDI, together with KS, is going to ask the municipalities to accept a certain number of refugees. And if it is that there remains a remainder when the harvest comes that no municipalities will accept, then it is suggested that the central federation of the municipalities at their harvest conferences will be responsible for the distribution of these. What is at the bottom of this whole model is that several municipalities have to take a greater joint responsibility to get the settlement in place. I would like to remind you that when we say that we are to receive people from other countries who are in need – which is quite right in the view of the Labour Party – it is also such that it has some consequences, such as. a. that they are to be settled in some municipalities. Then I believe that we're just wondering how to sail if we don't have a scheme that makes us get to the settlement much faster. We're going through this. I have also realized that many municipalities are actually positive to the scheme, like the local government. That's why I also feel confident that we will be able to make a scheme here that will make it fewer in the future, both adults and not least young people, who will remain in reception as long as the case is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e888	State councils stressed in their statement that the practice of the Norwegian Foreign Law should have a ‘sex-sensitive’ perspective. My first question will be in relation to the lack of consistency that has been demonstrated between current legislation, the changes in the rules that took place in 1998, the circular that was sent out in 1999 and which spelled a break in life, i.e. the law that appears to be in place for a more liberal practice, and what individual cases show in a very serious way. Is it unreasonable for the Council of State to propose, pending the review to be carried out, that the enforcement of cases be sidelined until a review of such applications can have such a major impact on individual women? What initiative is the Council of State really going to take? Is it this review of the foreign law that is going to take winter and spring, or has she now taken inwards that there is actually a growing majority that will have a faster review and a faster change, so that we get faster consistency between law and practice? My other question concerns all these people who today are in reception, and who, after the Council of State itself said, in some cases cannot afford the necessary health services and medicines. There's a proposal from SV and the Center Party that could do better. Will the Council of State take other initiatives to improve this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e897	I'm like a lot of people in the Stortinget to be absolutely sure that we take care of the gender perspective in a proper way. But I am not prepared to put matters to rest while you are now reviewing both the laws and regulations – just as I am also prepared to do. If I had meant that, I should also have thought that today's legislation and those who administer the foreign legislation are not right. I don't have any reason to say that. It is such that the new guidelines laid down under the Bondevik administration are followed. What I've learned in the year I've been so lucky to be a municipal minister is that all things have two sides, and the other side doesn't always come out in the media. And it's not always the right image that's being presented in the media. I think it's very important to bring it with us when we're also talking about that kind of thing. That doesn't mean I don't believe and believe that the gender perspective is very important. But I believe that we now have a better opportunity to reveal such things, among other things. a. know that UDI is now conducting the hearings instead of the police. Because in the UDI there are more women, and I think it's easier to get that kind of information when women talk to women. That's an important point. I also believe that when we set up the Foreign Affairs Department, where we have more laypeople inside, it will be easier to get more people to think about the kind of issues that are not least about legal certainty. I'm going to make sure, as the majority asks, that we get a faster review of what's about the gender perspective, instead of waiting for us to go through the whole alien law. And then if there's a need to change regulations, or to change practice, we'll look at it. But I am prepared to review this more quickly than the Foreign Affairs Act itself. With regard to the last question of healthcare, there is something that the Government will go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e911	First to the new settlement scheme: SV is not against the new settlement scheme, but we have more faith that you will succeed in settling, for example. a stronger commitment to housing, if you have a policy in relation to labour market measures and training as we have outlined, and in addition you have a system in place in which, in particular, the lone minor applicants are treated under the Child Protection Act. It would provide a reinforcement that would enable the municipalities to know how to handle such settlement. I need a clarification from the Council of State as to why she disagrees with this. What is the justification for the discrimination of the Council of State and the Government against Norwegian children and foreign children without parents seeking asylum in Norway? What is the principle difference between these children, and why does the Council of State think they should not get a similar offer? So some of the individual things that have happened. SV does not want to deal with the individual issues, but we want to look at the principles, whether the way they are treated is in line with the government's policy. That is why we have asked the Council of State: is it in line with the government's policy that families who have been denied their applications, but who have sick children who could risk dying if they were thrown out, are to be thrown out and not given the opportunity to remain healthy? This concerns principles and not the treatment of individual cases. So to the last point. The Council of State was now in the pulpit and said that the Government was concerned with safeguarding the women's perspective. The concrete question to which it is important to get an answer now is: Does the Government believe that this perspective is well taken care of? If the government thinks it's well taken care of, why should you have a new review of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e920	To the issue of the Child Protection Act and whether it should apply in relation to all receptions where there are lone minor asylum seekers: I believe this is to make the children clients. I also mean, after what I have seen and learned during this year – I have met many children in such a situation – that the children have very different needs. For some people, it's best to live in a book collective. I've even met many young people who do. They do not need to be under the protection of children. For some of those children, foster homes are the best, for others, there are other solutions that are the best. I believe that we need room to find different solutions, and I also believe that the measures proposed by the Government and to which the Storting is now joining, and also a strengthening of it in relation to strengthening, among other things. crew, competence, etc. In order to monitor children even better while they are in reception, important steps are taken to do something about this. I think it's far better suggestions than saying that one should be covered by the Child Protection Act. So I don't want to comment here on individual matters that the representative Karin Andersen raises, except to say – because I've seen that there are a number of issues that have been raised in relation to, among other things. a. Kosovo – that sick children may be lacking, and for some diseases it is fully possible to receive treatment in Kosovo. My point of saying that is that here, of course, there has to be an individual assessment in each situation, and also in relation to which disease you are talking about. I would also like to say that in relation to the second example of a matter that has also been mentioned in the media, a matter in Sollia, the picture that was presented in the media, not necessarily the right one. As for the family that was talking about, it was actually the case that the family had been told to leave earlier and had not complied with the deadline for departure. Therefore, it should not come as a surprise to anyone that they are then asked to be sent at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e930	UDI has a very important and very difficult task in charge of our asylum and refugee policy. The Council of State made a statement on the presentation she made to the Municipal Committee on 13 February, expressing a great deal of understanding that the Municipal Committee would have a presentation of the situation in the UDI. She then said that UDI has a large work pressure, and that the negative media attention is struggling. The Council of State was also concerned that the State Consultant had had a review – which led to a report in January 2000, i.e. 15 months ago – as among others. a. had led to reorganisation. The reorganisation has led – and the Council of State was pleased, she said from the pulpit – to a faster asylum procedure. She said: ‘This was absolutely necessary, but this priority has unfortunately led to an increase in the procedure for other cases, so that the situation is not currently acceptable to these cases. The announced review shall help to identify actions that need to be implemented to change this. ‘... I'm happy for the review, and I hope that's enough. Not everyone believes it. The review by the Council of State of the UDI is referred to as ‘a slight serious procedure at a high political level’. And we have unfortunately experienced that the human rights champion Kristoffer Gjøtterud has found it necessary to report UDI – a review that was submitted on 20 April this year. In the evening post of 29 March this year, there is an article with a large title: ‘An asylum seeker shall only have one chance’. And on the other hand, ‘The request shall not be processed. Asylum seekers must therefore leave Norway without examining the application if they have already applied for asylum in the Schengen area, the United Kingdom or Ireland. ‘... In this case, UDI has been given the opportunity to comment, according to the Evening Post, and the director states: ‘We will, as a starting point, require the country where the asylum seeker was first registered to withdraw him and deal with the asylum application. ‘... I find this strange, because when we dealt with the Dublin Convention, the majority explicitly said: ‘The purpose of the Dublin Convention is, inter alia, to prevent asylum seekers from being referred back and forth between countries without having the application dealt with. ‘... And on the other hand, ‘The majority will stress that a Member State is free to deal with an asylum application even if it is not obliged to do so under the Dublin Convention. There will be Norwegian asylum policy that will apply to the examination of applications in Norway. ‘... In one of the annexes, the letter from the Council of State on 23 February of this year to the Committee, the Council of State also emphasises exactly the same view in the answer to question 13. I think we are totally dependent on, if we are to have a good policy, that the UDI has confidence, and precisely statements like the one I quoted from the Evening Post on 29 March, where it is put up for a policy where the asylum seeker is to be sent back – ‘We will, as a starting point, demand that the country where the asylum seeker was first registered should take him back and deal with the asylum application’ – is contrary to the will of the Grand Duchy and the Council of State. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will be able to clean up these relationships, because we cannot live with an UDI that is not in the bargain with the will of the Grand Duchy and the Council of State. In this way, the public review requirements will increase with strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23.ana.ud222e965	That's when the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The new meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
