ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e25	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is too long. The President will propose that Odelstinget continue this meeting until the current map has been completed, i.e. not to attend the evening meeting. The President has confidence that the members of Odelstinget will ensure that this matter is dealt with within a reasonable time frame. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e33	The representative, Torbjørn Andersen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e36	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of myself, Mr Solholm and Mrs Knudsen, to repeal Law No. 6 June 1975. 29 on taxes on property for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e41	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e53	Despite the fact that there is a broad majority behind Ot.prp's position. No 10, however, the handling of this matter has become special. The majority have found that both the title of the law and the design of Section 1 of the law need to be changed. It happens very rarely here in Stortinget. One actually has to be 25 years back to find a similar case. The whole arrangement of the law has been amended, the mandate is limited to a particular type of action, and the Committee states that democratic considerations must be given considerable importance before the Government makes use of the mandate, if appropriate. The background to the promotion of this issue for the Grand Duchy is linked to the fact that Norway is increasingly faced with the need to address agreed positions and actions promoted in international cooperation. These measures are different in nature and may include different international organisations. This concerns the UN and many sub-institutions, namely the World Bank and the IMF, NATO, the OSCE, the EEA and the rest of Norway's cooperation with the EU. It is the Government that deals with such issues on behalf of Norway. Within the powers conferred by the Storting, the Government ensures that questions of connection to positions, strategies and actions are clarified and implemented. Normally it is not necessary to present this to the Storing in the individual case. Only in very special cases is it necessary that Norwegian consent to decisions in the international forums be confirmed by an explicit mandate provided by law decisions in the Stortinget. This will, for example: apply in cases where Norway wishes to join international sanctions against third countries involving intervention in private law. Such a legal framework will be necessary for an effective follow-up to the sanction decisions and for the criminal prosecution of infringements of the sanction provisions adopted. In the case of military measures in which Norway wishes to participate, specific decisions are also needed. The reasons given by the Government for the promotion of such a power of attorney law which allows the Government to implement certain measures following decisions taken by international bodies are due to the effective and credible implementation of such decisions for Norway. At the same time, it is emphasised that it would in any case be a prerequisite for the Government to consult the Storting before the implementation of such measures. Although it is very rare to interrupt economic relations with a country, the majority agree that it is important for Norway to be able to take such measures quickly and effectively when the conditions for accession exist. In fact, 14 years have passed since the adoption of a Norwegian law on comprehensive financial sanctions against a country — in this case against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. However, it may be appropriate to have a power of attorney which gives the Government the necessary freedom of action in specific cases. Increasing international cooperation on democracy and human rights could make such measures more relevant in the future. Where a more time-consuming process of its own legislative decision would have significant disadvantages in relation to the considerations of democracy which could justify the ordinary legislative procedure, a power of attorney should be given under specified conditions. However, the government’s legislative proposal raised several critical issues on the part of the Committee. The questions asked to the Ministry follow as an annex to the statement, together with the reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The answer is clear from several of the objections raised to the bill and is therefore essential for a proper understanding and framework of the law on powers. There are three issues that have been particularly important to clarify: 1st@item: inlistbox The Government's proposal for the design of Section 1 limits the power to deal only with matters relating to the European Union within the common foreign and security policy. What happens if the EU is unable to gather on a common position in a specific case? Such an authorisation may not be considered to be applicable if, for example: Most EU countries and the United States agree to these measures?2. The Ministry's proposal for Section 1 lacks a distinct definition. There is no limitation in the proposal as to the types of measures that may be relevant under the mandate. The government's original formulation is actually open like a lock door here. In principle, the wording also opens up the possibility of implementing military measures under mandate, even if the comments and the wording of the proposition clarify this fact. One has therefore been found that the Government’s intention has not been to open military action under mandate.3. The Proposition does not discuss the important considerations of democracy that will obviously come under pressure through the use of this type of law on powers. In the letter of reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, several important clarifications have to be made on the basis of a correct understanding of the law: Firstly, the Ministry clarifies that ‘the legislative proposal covers only non-military measures’. The measures envisaged shall be capable of ‘a rapid reaction to third countries in the form of an interruption of economic or other relations’. All military measures are therefore excluded. This limitation of powers has now been included in Section 1 of the Act by the Committee. Secondly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms in the letter of reply that such a power of attorney law may result in a weakening of important democratic considerations because ‘you do not get the same thorough preparation and public debate that will normally precede the adoption of a separate formal law in the Grand Duchy’. In the view of the majority, this should therefore imply that such a power of attorney law should only be used in cases where formal legal proceedings in the Stortinget could significantly weaken the effects of the sanctions. Moreover, there will also be an opportunity for the Government to be able to consult the Storting at any time with regard to the use of the Powers Act in the individual case. With regard to the clarification and delimitation of the nature of the measures, the majority considers that this is so essential that this should also be reflected in the design of the title of the law and in the design of Section 1 of the Act. The majority therefore proposes such a change in wording both in the title and in the design of Section 1. The majority believe that such a law on powers should not be confined solely to decisions taken by the EU in the framework of the common foreign and security policy. In this case, the majority's proposal involves a substantive change in relation to the Government's proposal. Why should Norway be so bound by an EU consensus in order to take international action quickly and effectively? The EU may not be able to take a binding decision in a specific case in the case of international, non-military measures. Should this limit Norway’s scope of action and its possibilities for accession if we believe that the measures are otherwise in place? That would be unreasonable. The majority therefore believe that the Powers Act should also include measures that appear to be widespread internationalisation and involving most EU countries and the United States. If such broad agreement is not available, the matter should be brought before the Grand Duchy by its own legislative proposal, as practised today. There is reason to stress that all such penalties must be enshrined in decisions of the Security Council. This is also underlined in the proposition. Nevertheless, it should be possible, in the view of the majority, to implement sanctions with Norwegian approval under this Act, even if an explicit decision in the Security Council is blocked by a veto of some of the permanent members. This is also in line with the government's view. The precondition for such accession must be a broad consensus among our closest international partners, such as most EU countries and the United States. And in any case, issues of the implementation of financial penalties need to be discussed with the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee before such implementation. The minority, SV and the Central Party, oppose the proposal for such a power of attorney. The minority raise the same objections to the law as the majority, but they will have to reject the bill. An alternative could, of course, be to send the entire bill back to the Government for the necessary processing and clarification. I have, of course, considered this opportunity as rapporteur-in-Office. But for my part, I have rather chosen to go into the unfinished legislative wording, clarify the premises and incorporate into the legal text the clarifications that needed to create a better relationship between what must be the intention of the law and the design of the law. Together with the understanding that is now being used, in the light of both the clarifications of the Committee majority and the letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that the draft law has become such that it can be recommended for a decision in Odelstinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e95	Norway is systematically invited to participate in various EU actions under the common foreign and security policy. It has been natural for us to participate where the measures have broad international support, and measures in this context may be concerned, are about maintaining or restoring international peace and security, protecting fundamental rights, etc. So in this context, it's not about the use of military power. When the rapporteur here points out that this matter has been changed in total by the amendment made by the Committee in Section 1, and that the framework of the law is restricted, it is not correct. There has never been any disagreement between the Government and the Committee in the understanding of these matters It is exactly the same thing that arises here now. But it was a question of explicitly entering that it was not about participation in or support for military actions. So it's never been in this law. When Norway considers it appropriate, appropriate and sensible to join specific EU decisions under the common foreign and security policy, situations may arise where the legal basis for this specific action will be necessary. The legislative proposal we are now considering should be able to ensure a rapid, effective and credible response on our part in cases where the speed will be crucial. This law has therefore not been promoted in order to remove the debate on such matters from the public, the parliamentary environment or the Stortinget, but must be regarded as a safety valve for use in cases where a very rapid action by Norway is necessary. That's what this law is meant to be used for. But even in these cases, that is, when a rapid action is necessary, consultations will have taken place prior to the Government's decision with the relevant bodies of the Grand Duchy. It has not been considered that the law should apply in cases where the usual procedure of treatment in this room is possible, without weakening the objective of the action. The centre party and SV will, of course, argue for their views in this matter, but when their main argument to oppose the vote by the majority of the committee is that there is no sufficiently well-founded need for the proposed law on powers, I will respond to it for my part. The need is precisely that there may be a situation in which such a rapid and such effective action is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the action to be credible and useful. In such cases, the government will also be tested through consultations with the bodies of the Stortinge whether the situation is such as to require such rapid action. So the government can have discussions with the Storting whether it agrees that in this situation such a rapid action is actually required. It is only when sanctions are significantly weakened by spending a long time putting them into practice that this law on powers is to be applied. Finally, as the rapporteur stressed, the legislative proposal does not include military or military aid. So that's never meant to be. It is important to clarify that this is not something that the Committee has changed through its consideration. It has never been the intention of the bill to include military or military support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e122	It has been asked for a line, but the president will suggest that there is no line now, but that you can sign up for later posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e125	In the world of principles, this is not a simple matter, because it clearly distorts the relationship between big business and government. In the real world, however, I think the matter is relatively straightforward. It is not least due to the fact that the Committee has been very clearly involved in the matter through the examination of the mandate. One of them is the underlining of consultations with the bodies of the Storting, but what is perhaps more important is that, at the same time, it is emphasised that if it is a very controversial matter, it should be presented as a legislative proposition. Indeed, the Committee shares its views on the controversial issue that there should be broad agreement on the measures taken by our closest international partners. I don't have the habit of quoting from settings, but I want to make a small exception this time, because I think what the committee writes is particularly important. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The majority argue that if there is no broad consensus among our closest international partners, including most of the EU countries and the United States, there is an indication that the relevant sanctions decisions are so controversial internationally that the Government must normally withdraw the Stortinge by making legislative proposals on the sanctions.’ – That is quite clear speech – very sensible, very good. The third indent is that the power of attorney should only be used when the penalties are significantly reduced in time consumption. I don't think that's going to happen in many cases. We remember from previous home laws that they are very, very simple in their design, to say it a little cautiously. Therefore, almost only the regulation of the Storting sets the limit on how quickly such cases should be dealt with. Therefore, I believe it is true to say that this is a mandate that will not be used for a very long time, and in many cases it will not meet these formal requirements either. The only thing I have to admit that I have a little difficulty understanding is why someone is hanging the decision against decisions in the Security Council. It is asked whether this is not something that has been played over from a completely different debate, namely the debate on the basis of international law for military action, as we had in Kosovo. There is the debate on Security Council decisions relevant. But I must honestly admit that in this case I do not think it is particularly relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e141	The Powers Act adopted by Odelstinget today will have a completely different heading from the legislative proposal made by the Government last autumn. When the committee says that the original mandate is not precisely formulated, it is a sensible wording. As a unanimous committee says, the proposition had to be perceived as ‘all that the EU had to adopt in the area of the common foreign and security policy’. The applicant’s rapporteur used the expression that the proposition was ‘open as a lock door’. The draft law adopted by the majority makes it clear that the mandate requested by the Government includes only non-military measures. Furthermore, the last draft no longer covers only decisions taken by the European Union in the context of the common foreign and security policy, but generally applies to the implementation of international measures in relation to certain financial penalties. When the Central Party has chosen to oppose the proposed Powers Act, it is mainly due to two factors: Firstly, the proposition does not, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Central Party, suggest the need for a new law on powers, in addition to the law we already have on decisions in the United Nations, where Norway is obliged by international law to follow up decisions. Secondly, the Center Party believes that one must seek to avoid as far as possible, that important matters, such as: may include penalties against other countries, be treated in such a way as not to provide the public with adequate transparency. The clarification by the majority that such matters are to be dealt with by the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee is of course important, but it is nevertheless a matter of dealing in a closed meeting without public scrutiny. The majority also provide for the use of this Powers Act in cases where a Sanctions Decision has not received the necessary support from the UN Security Council. In the opinion of the Central Party and the SV, it is of particular concern that the Government is given a broad authority in sanction cases where one of the major acts has vetoed the Security Council. The law of jurisdiction under consideration requires the transfer of the right of decision from the accumulation to the government. The relationship between magnification and government is going to be distorted, as Jan Petersen quite correctly expressed it. It is a development that the Centre Party does not want to contribute to, at least not on the basis of a case where the need for the law cannot be said to be very well justified. Over the last 14 years, as the rapporteur mentioned, only one Norwegian Financial Penalty Act has been adopted. It seems unlikely that situations could arise in which it would be natural and reasonable to consider a rapid reaction to a sanction case in front of transparency and public debate prior to the adoption of the sanction decision. Against this background, I would recommend that Odelstingen do not endorse the proposed mandate. I'm left with the impression that the majority in principle really agrees with the minority, but, as Jan Petersen said, in the real world takes a different position, a non-princely position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e162	SV is going to go against the setting. We're doing this despite the fact that the setting has become significantly less controversial than the proposition's formulations. As the setting has now become, the mandate is likely to have little practical significance, so we're choosing a principle approach to the problem. It is now clarified that the Powers Act applies to non-military measures, nor is it unilaterally linked to the EU decision taken in the framework of foreign policy and security cooperation. We still choose to vote against, and our justification is a combination of principle and pragmatic reasons. First, the principal reasons. This type of mandate is unfortunate because it cuts off a previous open political debate. Our democracy and our rule of the people are under pressure, and there are several symptoms of weakened confidence in the rule of the people, among others. increasing political disdain. The foreign policy debate is also almost absent in Norwegian society. It is therefore important that we do not allow important foreign policy decisions to be kept away from the public debate. This will certainly not stimulate a debate that we sorely need. The wording in the setting allows for action to be taken without a constitutional basis, i.e. if someone veto the Security Council. This is new to the Law of 1968, and it's a principleal, important reorientation. Although the majority, as the rapporteur has pointed out, require consultations with the Stortinget, it is in our opinion wrong to give the Government such a basis in such matters. So the purely pragmatic approach angle. Since 1987, a comprehensive law has been passed only once, i.e. in 1999 with the sanctions against Rest-Yugoslavia. Experience therefore suggests that there is little need for that type of mandate, and it is difficult to see that situations will arise where the consideration of rapid reaction takes precedence over transparency and public debate. We therefore believe that this mandate should not be granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e175	As demonstrated by the proposal, the aim is to enable Norwegian membership of non-military coercive measures in the form of suspension of economic and other relations where national implementation would otherwise require a special law. Of course, the government does not object to a restriction on military actions and that this is expressed in the legal text itself, even if it does not appear necessary, because it is clear from the Basic Law Section 25 that military action cannot be undertaken without the consent of the Stortinge. Of course, the government didn't think about military action here, because if it had, you had to suggest changing the Constitution, and that hasn't been the case here. Since measures may also be applicable to movements or groups of persons, the Government also agrees with the proposed clarification with the addition of the words «or movement» in Section 1 of the draft law. The Government assumes that initiatives for relevant actions where appropriate decisions are not reached in the Security Council will, as a general rule, come up in the framework of the EU's common foreign and security policy cooperation. As mentioned above, such measures will often also be supported by a wider range of countries that will also be close to cooperation countries for Norway. However, the government sees that there may be situations where agreement on appropriate measures within the EU cannot be reached, but where measures are supported by countries close to us, both within and outside the EU. Therefore, it may also be appropriate for Norway to decide on the inclusion of measures by such tone-setting circles with countries, although I would also say that it is very unlikely that there will be wide international consensus on something that is not widely agreed in the EU. If there is no broad consensus in the EU, we have to assume that it is so controversial that there cannot be broad consensus internationally either. That is why I am pleased with what is in the setting, that in that case you have to bring it in for Stortinget. But I don't mind doing this clarification. The Government does not oppose the Committee's amendment, which links Norwegian membership of international action. Then I would like to say finally that I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legislative proposal causes a balance to be struck by the efficiency and speed of our reaction possibilities in a foreign policy crisis situation on the one hand, and the need for transparency and publicity in full legal proceedings on the other. This is a difficult question of principle, and the Government, in its assessment of the need to exploit this delegation of legislative powers, will therefore pay particular attention to whether humanitarian considerations or essential aspects relating to peace and security in each crisis situation indicate that action is taken without delay. This will take place after consultation with the bodies of the Storting. And to clarify again, it has never been necessary to change the fundamentals of military action, you have to stick to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e186	As I said in my first post, there are three issues that are particularly important during this treatment. The definition in Section 1 relates to the democratic problems related to the use of powers which the Minister for Foreign Affairs had just mentioned, and to the proposed extension of the scope of the law to outside cooperation within the common foreign and security policy of the EU. As regards the first question, as to the limitation in Section 1, I made it clear in my statement that the Government’s intention was not to extend it to military actions, but that the wording was in no way limited in relation to the intention, and that it must be important for the legislator to ensure that there is as much consistency as possible between the intention of the law and what is actually in the law’s paragraph. In addition to this, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also referred to, the paragraph has been added that this could also apply to attacks by different GHGs. So in relation to what Kjell Engebretsen thought was an error on my part, I would say that I have never claimed that the government should have other intentions about this. But I believe that the legislative work by the Government on this point was not good, and that it was necessary to correct the legal text in line with the intention. On the issue of democracy, I am pleased with what has been said in the letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also said. There is a balance between, on the one hand, having an open democratic debate on all sides, and, on the other hand, taking into account the important aspects of the rapid implementation of the sanctions decisions in line with what other countries are doing. And when the need for rapid implementation is more important and significant than what might arise from such an open debate, such an authorisation must be granted. That's the majority summary. The substance of the Committee's consideration is, of course, the enlargement process. And I am pleased that there has been broad agreement, that one sees that the scope of such a mandate must also cover areas other than those within the EU. However, it is clear, given premises, where one requires the support of our closest partners in the field of defence, foreign and security policy, such as most EU countries and the United States. Johan J. Jakobsen finally expressed his opinion that the majority essentially agreed with the minority. I dare say that the minority has picked up many of its arguments from the majority, and it says a little bit about that situation, that one in general is actually in agreement on what needs to be clarified during this treatment. In contrast to the minority, however, the majority have found that the clarification, frame-up and new legislative formulation are such that it must be possible to adopt the proposed draft law in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e199	Very quickly – first of all, the issue as it now exists is very good, and the majority of the committee is very pleased with the wording that is now in place. I must also say here that, in our opinion, the rapporteur, who is identical to the chairman of the committee, has done an excellent job with what has happened. What made me react as I did was that, in my opinion, the case-rapporteur stated that, after the committee had been examined, the authority of the Government had been narrowed, i.e. that the Storting had found that they could not give the Government the authority that the Government itself thought it needed, and that the changes in Section 1 should have given such an effect. But now I understand that we agree that this treatment in Stortinget has only been of a clarifying nature, the language has become a little different, while the authority of the Government is at the same level as the Government itself has indicated that it needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e206	The President would just like to point out that the clarification in that case has occurred in Odelstinget. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e216	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e252	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-20-lower.ana.ud1849e277	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
