ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e27	If this was the first week of the ageing period and not the last, I might be disappointed when I now see that the representatives eventually leave the hall. However, I hope that at least parts of the municipal committee will be left at the end. We'll talk about St.meld. No 34, which has a fact-finding of the challenges of district policy to which most people can subscribe. There are trends that have been a concern for years in the Committee and in the EEA. The central government, in its time, had a goal of stopping the decline in the population in District Norway. Now it's called more realistic to slow down centralization. A new main element of the picture is that the birth figures now come into the central struts, and that District Norway thus no longer has a birth surplus that counteracts the flow of the move. On the right, the Government agrees that robust regions with comprehensive knowledge and competence in the environment, business clusters and a wide range of cultural and service services will be able to slow the flow of migration towards the central eastern region. However, we distinguish layers of the Workers' Party in the way in which such robust regions and such major interesting housing and work areas can be constructed. The cancellation message is to be seen in the context of the SND and the long-term programme and the division of tasks, and then it is said that we want a different approach to this than the government party. For example, the county council does not exist in the future administrative structure of the Right, while the Workers' Party rates the county council as the crumbling step in this capacity and the regional partnership between the county council, state actors, municipalities, businesses, competent institutions and private organisations, a joint effort that they believe should take place. The right has similar low belief that the now four-year regional development programme will respond to the challenges of District Norway. Less than ever before, future business plans for the long term. We know that many of today's businesses don't exist in a few years. We don't know who it is either – we don't know what kind of businesses we're going to get. We believe that the industry's tone-setting leaders have a different speed than the state politicians and the county planning processes, the four-year RUPs and what they want to represent. Probably little surprising, we believe, that general framework conditions, accessibility through road construction and broadband, clearance of the form field and other simplifications and a more acceptable tax and tax burden will facilitate industrial flowering in District Norway. Access to labour matching the needs of industry in District Norway is also a critical success factor, as we see it. It was therefore gratifying that the Workers' Party a few days ago made sense of access to seasonal labour by amending the Foreign Affairs Act. Mobilising residual labour capacity in the Norwegian population and controlled labour migration in general are also necessary to maintain activity in the district of Norway. The right takes part in a minority proposal on a plan for the relocation of existing and new state establishments from Oslo. That being said, it is important to stress that only the private sector can contribute to sustainable growth and that the public sector should not be the support pillar of District Norway but only be the facilitator and provider of certain services. It is therefore reassuring to see that other parties underline the importance of the public sector as employment networks in District Norway. It is equally encouraging to see that the centre party calls out the small municipalities as the guarantor of a quality service product in the district of Norway. It should be known to most that both efficiency and competence can be questioned in Small Municipality Norway, at least in some municipalities. Fortunately, the centre seems to leave the demand for a better service offer in District Norway than in the rest of the country and to be careful with an equivalent service offer. Compared to centralisation, as is well known, the sick home areas will still account for the large flow of movements. It would be a good idea not to take the very big, groundbreaking decisions in relation to such messages. Characteristically, in the setting, there is a Roman number decision on positive agents. The positive agents are the center government's baby, but now it's been adopted by the Workers' Party, and it's these parties that have the setting at this point. Let me say it so that most of us who live at the extremes, are largely able to reveal the advantages and disadvantages of living in District Norway. I don't think a purchased food manager and a traveling positive agent can convince us that the pitfalls in the road are now to be seen as a cultural offer. An image of a potential for a formidable increase in the value creation in District Norway through fisheries and not least aquaculture has long been fixed. This is a development that is still possible, but it is important to stress that this development will not come off the ground. In its observations, the right writes about the need for a certain revision of the participating law and the law on raw fish — including the need to make capacity adjustments in fisheries so that environmental and economic considerations can be taken into account. However, it is the farming industry’s future framework conditions that have been most focused in the last few days. The majority of the population, the Labour Party and the Centre have recently imposed farming conditions that seriously impede an industry that would have a high potential for development along the coast. The majority have agreed to levy a fee for the award of rearing concessions. Breeders now have to prepare for the fact that the Workers' Party and Centre may have picked out Norwegian farming as the country's next tax victim. And the list of new taxes, taxes and regulations that the centre parties and the Workers' Party have agreed on is quite long. Fee of 5 million shall be claimed. kr for the award of new concessions. Newly awarded concessions may not be transferred during the first 10 years. Proposals shall be submitted for an area charge and a farm production charge, a separate concession reselling fee shall be determined and there shall be a concession limit of 35 concessions. Here it looks as if the budget agreement has the centre parties thoroughly inserted into the fold of the Workers' Party. The consequence may be that the competitiveness of the industry will be significantly impaired and that Norwegian fish farmers will see greater opportunities beyond the borders of the country. Since I have a few seconds left, I want to get into a curiousness that we find in the message. It's interesting to read the attachments and some investigations. In these scenarios that our scientists have drawn up, my western region is drawn as an exciting coastal feeding region. But in a few decades' time, these college people have seen the coastal people with their age move into the fjords and cultivate dialect, nine Norse and a kind of older culture. Let me make it clear that this is one of the most unlikely things I've ever read. I think the people of the coast will stay on the coast and participate for as long as possible in the value creation that is there. I don't think they'll want to buy themselves an extra luxuriant and move far into the spring and spend the age there. They will probably stay on the coast and end their days there – preferably not with the boots on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e48	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e51	Last part of the article to Mr. I fully agree with Mr Hoddevik. It would be inconceivable for a mountainer to move from the coast! The Labour Party agrees with the Government’s proposal to pursue a comprehensive, realistic and offensive policy. The Labour Party points to the importance of investing in robust societies, which can meet the population and the new needs of business. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to contribute to the strengthening of labour, housing and service bodies and regional value creation environments. These challenges require joint efforts from wide-ranging regional partnerships. At the same time, the Labour Party will underline the need to have a specific effort to address challenges in small communities with a high decline in the population and a high distance from centres. The right has a different district policy than the Government. On the right, the Government continues to pursue a district policy with a strong emphasis on selective support for industry and public support programmes. Right will cut such support. The Workers' Party will continue the system of specific conversion aid to municipalities and regions with a one-sided activity base and facing particularly major migration challenges. This often applies to closures of corner stone holdings, but may also apply when the sum of several smaller employment productions becomes significant. The Defence Committee has just given its opinion. If there is a majority in the Storting for that position, we will experience that many societies will face migration challenges, for example. A Europe of 3,000 people, where 200 jobs will disappear. My question to the Right will be if the Right supports such a conversion, for there is nothing in the setting that supports right-wing changes in the public domain. All they do is they say it has to be a competitive business, because then it becomes a living society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e62	It is correctly understood that the Right has a more focused district policy, which goes directly on the framework conditions, than the Workers' Party expresses in its comments. In fact, we recognize that we are cutting – albeit perhaps moderate, yet visible – on the instrument. It is the seed fund that is our special field of activity within the instrument, and we do not have similar faith in municipal food managers and extensive treatment of applicants and individual businesses. So the representative Leif Lund of the Workers' Party has probably perceived at least some of the political points that the Right is trying to get into its district policy, where accessibility and road construction are absolutely a field of activity. That doesn't mean, of course, that the Right will reject all thoughts about possible rescue actions in communities that are heavily affected by conversion. We'll have to evaluate these situations gradually. I point out that the minority proposal on the relocation of state jobs has received our support – correct with our own singing, but still. Of course, it can be equally exciting to go with that philosophy, if we were to be so lucky that we got rid of the county council, that maybe there would be a drought in some public locations that would be subject to a special assessment, whether it should be in Finnmark or in my own home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e67	The representative Sverre J. Hoddevik and I'm both from Coast Norway. I actually believe that with Right's district policy, a good part of the coastal communities would survive. They've basically done their own thing. But what about the agricultural municipalities? Agriculture means a lot to the fjords as well as to the whole of Austland. In my view, there is no doubt that the Right would question the Norwegian agricultural areas with selective support, which is repeated several times in this setting. How does Right think the towns would look, and how many would bid there with Right's agricultural policy – or is it uninteresting to Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e72	Over the year, we have seen a significant change in the structure of agriculture. The right is probably thinking that this process will continue, partly with our participation and also with the participation of others, of course. I do not believe that the fate of the countryside is at last linked to a fixed agricultural structure. If that were the case, these communities would look different already. Over the decades, we have had a significant change in employment in agriculture, and many rural people have seen the ability to combine agriculture with other industries, find other bones to stand on, and this will actually be the case in the future. We've probably turned to sound, at least in our programme, for a further change in agricultural policy, to understand that we're going to make agricultural transfers less productive, more related to area aid and in favour of more linear settlement in relation to production, whether it's allowed to use a mathematical expression. It won't be negative in our view. We believe that this is well compatible with a forward-looking, good agricultural policy. The big community will then pay for the products the big community demands, and then we will have to open the borders to the rest of the world. We are living in a global market both in fish and meat, and it is clear that Norwegian agriculture ministers and prime ministers will be in an eternal dilemma outside the world if they are to be torn between allowing for the marketing of Norwegian fish product and possibly protectionism in relation to Norwegian agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e79	In a comprehensive note, the Right is called into question against the changes that have occurred in the case of breeding laws, and Swear J. Hoddevik now repeats this in his post. Let me just stress that the Center Party actually looked at the changes that happened, as a big one says. Think about getting the Labour Party to avert the auction idea, so it was those who had the most resources to join an auction, who were going to get new concessions! I want to challenge the right on two points. It's a little strange to listen to a representative from the District Right who's so little busy that politicians are going to provide jobs in the districts in addition to getting a job. When it comes to road investment, there is a report, and there is also a comment in this setting that Right could not join, which shows that 69 pst. of transport investments in the ten-year period 1988-1998 went to Oslo and a 45-minute run distance from Oslo. Does Right see the need to distort road investment, not just increase it, but distort it so that more areas, not least the West, are accommodated? So Sverre Hoddevik is busy limiting his public engagement. What does that mean that Right does not see the connection between the public, that is, the comms, when it comes to kindergarten, music school, a good base, etc. Just as a pretense for the districts, to get people to different businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e90	It must be due to a fundamental misunderstanding if it is created that the Right does not want the public to provide jobs in the districts. It's just the approach that's different from the rest of the party, just through what we say in our speeches: it's the general framework conditions that are absolutely crucial, with accessibility through road construction, for example. There is a clarification and visibility of the public role in business organisation. If we don't go the whole lesson about taxes and taxes and everything that had to be mentioned, then it's obvious that we're concerned about this. When it comes to road investment, I see that the center has picked up a random year and uses the statistics on it. We don't participate so heavily in that very part of the debate. We are aware that if the district representatives are going to win their toes on the meat weight, we're going to lose. We need to pursue a policy where party politics is given a boost to the whole country in road construction. Then everyone will get their projects in turn and order, and that's our approach to this part of the policy. The representative, Kleppa, raised this with breeding, and it is an important matter for us. Now I see that the Central Party is going to shoot itself in the rescue operation that they have prevented a major accident, namely the auctioning principle. In politics, there is an expression called kicking open doors. I think that's a pretty good thing here. Because I understand that there was no danger in this situation that the majority would go for auctioning breeding concessions. So here it might be that the Center Party has been guilty of a fundamental misunderstanding about where their forces were needed in this context. I think it is rather the budget agreement that is the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e99	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e102	It seems clear to me that there has gradually become a not insignificant need for a strong settlement with the prevailing and often old-fashioned Norwegian district policy thinking. First of all, we need to avoid looking at relocation and centralisation within the country’s borders as a problem that again requires comprehensive political and economic measures to prevent people moving in this country. Because what's really wrong when people move around the country? Is it a value statement point to be against moving? So rather, we have to look at the benefits of high mobility in the population, and we have to respond positively to the changes in living conditions that this natural move brings with it, rather than spending a lot of time and money on countering relocation and making people live where they live. The unrealistic rural policy objectives and ambitions that we are now pursuing, the aim of which is to preserve the existing in the country, must be replaced by positive growth and change, wherever this growth takes place – in urban or rural areas. Having to have a policy of its own that will prevent relocation and reverse the flow of relocation in order to maintain a scattered settlement structure is, in my view, a pointless and unrealistic goal that cannot be ruled politically over time, no matter what you do and no matter how much money you allocate for this purpose. For even the world's most expensive and far-reaching district policy, the Norwegian, has not managed to dampen up the flow of migration. It has not been able to stem the flow of migration to cities, even though stopping the flow of migration has been the central goal of district policy in Norway. And today, then, three out of four people live in cities and towns. Thus, even agricultural policy, a reduction in the employer’s fees and an income system designed for the benefit of the outlying municipalities, have been able to prevent the population from falling to some extent dramatically and will continue to decline in the coming years in several outlying municipalities. Thus, the trend of centralisation continues to be fully, quite unimpeded by the expansion of spe­cific district policy and all kinds of support and assistance measures to the outlying edges. If you want to do something purely political for the benefit of the districts, you should resort to entirely different means and completely different from what you have today, and among other things. change tax policies in Norway, and not least change views on, for example: ownership of the enterprises. Today's taxing of owners who work in their own company is so burdensome that we get tax-motivated sales of e.g. many district holdings. Thus, the ownership structure is run in the direction of investors without the slightest local connection. And I ask, shall it continue like this? It is therefore necessary to change tax policy and ownership significantly in order to maintain the local ties of businesses better if they are to keep businesses out in District Norway to a much greater extent than is currently possible. It is also appropriate to reduce the distance disadvantages in this long-term country by reducing all transport-related charges on freight and passenger transport and at the same time dramatically increasing investment in a better road network. The rural areas should also be opened up by removing the laws of nobility and concession, so that new people with fresh intrusions and capital could get into the closed-up agriculture we have today. This should, of course, be made easier for entrepreneurs and founders, and we also had to reduce the legal and regulatory jungle as well as the huge and strenuous form field that many meet when they are going to establish themselves. We must facilitate the general framework conditions for business and, above all, create productive and profitable jobs, not least in the districts. It is wrong to believe that district workplaces can be based on the relocation of state jobs and/or overemployment in the municipal sector – or in agriculture for that matter. In my view, Norwegian district policy is on the wrong track. I know that there are many in this room who strongly disagree with me in this view, and who will praise the results of Norwegian district policy, but I do not choose to see it this way. The problem is that the majority refuses to understand that district policy is on the wrong track. Thus, one drives forward unrelentingly in what I would describe as a completely wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e121	The Labour Party and the Advance Party are, as you have probably heard, on a collision course with regard to instruments of district policy. Where the Workers' Party considers it valuable with living communities and regions, the Progress Party considers that it is ‘failure, old-fashioned and expensive’ — ‘additional’ was also mentioned — at least in relation to the use of economic instruments in district policy. The promotion party has no objective or, as they themselves write, ‘does not see it as an end in itself at all costs to maintain residence in peripheral regions of the country’. In addition, the Progress Party considers that district policy is ‘inefficient, inefficient, inappropriate, for resource-intensive and represents unreasonable use of both human and financial resources’. It's not a trifle thing we just heard. I am not going to give any comprehensive characteristics of the Progress Party's policy in this area, except: thank you and thank you for not getting to know the policies of the Progress Party on the body! We don't refuse to see what it's like in District Norway, on the contrary. We only have some others and, in my opinion, much better solutions than the Progress Party stands for. But I still want to ask Andersen, the representative: what does the Progress Party think is ‘peripheral strokes’?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e132	To the last one, that was a good question. I've wondered a little bit about it and tried to find a definition. What are actually "peripheral strokes"? Norway may be a peripheral region, but everything is relatively related. On a European scale, Norway may be a fringe. But I want to look at it from the big cities we have in Norway – if they exist. Then Tromsø in North Norway is not a peripheral stroke, as I choose to see it. It's a pretty central stroke. Peripheral strokes are probably more small communities that have a certain distance to a more centralised stroke or a city. It was a violent attack by the representative Brørby on our excellent district policy – I would say. Obviously, we look at this differently, it would just be missing if we didn't. But if you look today at the main goal of district policy that has long been pursued, it is moving further and further away from reality. For many, many years, the main objective has been to maintain the housing pattern in the districts. It's moderated something lately. But despite the massive effort of all the other parties except partly the Right and we stand for in this room, it hasn't worked. In the first few months of the reign of the Bondevik government, 7 000 or 8 000 people moved from the districts into central districts in this country. So this was under parties that claimed to be leading an excellent district policy. These are heavy trends, and I think no matter what level of ambition we politicians have, no matter how much political pressure we exert, and no matter how much financial resources we choose to put in, they won't stop. These are trends that the market itself controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e139	People have always moved to Norway. And people will continue to move in Norway. It's actually been like this all over the last century that less than 50 pst. of the women remained in the municipality in which they grew up. This is nothing new. But we're totally dependent on a district policy where we first try to slow down the movement flow, and then turn it around, because Norway needs it. Norway needs, as the representative Torbjørn Andersen said, productive and profitable jobs in the district, because that is where the bulk of the value creation is to be done. Then, as the Progress Party, we must not flatten ourselves and say that centralization is going on in any case. It is not true that there are the high taxes and taxes that are the danger in this country. We have all received DNB Investor's journal today, and Professor at Stockholm School of Economics, Jonas Riddersstraye, says: ‘If Oracle or Sun were to start a business in Norway, I do not believe that taxation is essential, but that there is access to skilled labour.’ Furthermore, ‘The right workforce can act as an engine and create a quantity of future sources of income.’ This is hardly in line with either the rural policy or the immigration policy of the Progress Party. Does not the Progress Party see that it is where the values are created that we must have the people? That is why it is important to have an active district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e157	It was a bit of an ointment. Of course, I agree with the first that people have to move freely. They've been doing that for many years, as it was referred to, and it's still going to be that way. But now it is that taxes and taxes have quite a bearing on business start-ups. There is no doubt that Norway is suffering from a major problem — in terms of lack of entrepreneurship, and in terms of lack of innovation and establishment of new businesses. We're actually at the bottom of it. 40 pst. by the technology companies in this country, which might just be a support for business start-ups in the districts, have now been flagged out, and even more are on their way. And why are they flagging out? They simply say that they are offered better framework conditions, not least in tax and tax terms, in other countries, and they emphasise it with the proximity of the market connected to high Norwegian transport costs; we know that distances are high in Norway. There is no doubt that the Progress Party sees too many errors in the current district policy, so we have a different district policy. I believe that the districts have the best conditions to stand on their own. But then they must be allowed to keep for themselves more of the value they stand for, and freed from all the support and help that we think almost has the effect that it hurts worse. That we need our own district policy is actually a sign that something is fundamentally wrong in Norway, with Norwegian industrial policy and Norwegian tax policy. The Progress Party will have a policy that strengthens the whole country and does not break a few lines so that we need these comprehensive support measures as we see today. Norwegian tax policies are in balance, and they punish the districts harshly. Then the representative of Østberg thinks what he wants about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e170	There's at least one thing that's going on with this line and this post from the Progress Party, and that's that we're told in front of the election campaign that all the localization issues that the Progress Party's local politicians are taking up and fighting for are just bluff. It's obvious now, when the representative, Andersen, says it's no problem that things are centralised, it doesn't matter, it's just getting started, you get to move. I have a whole bunch of examples where local representatives from the Progress Party have stood up and fought and said that it is very important that the exact function or function is located right there in the district, because it is so important for those who live there. The last case now concerns the defense, where there has been a fight from the barracks to the barracks, to say so, for every detail, because it has been so important. It's good to know that this is just clothes and nonsense. So for the overemployment in the public sector, as the representative reminds us. It's enough that there can be some changes there in terms of people who work in the administration. But the majority of those who work in the public sector, work in kindergartens, in schools and not least in the care of the elderly, with care and care, and thousands more people are needed. Is this the overemployment in the public sector? Is it so that the Progress Party thinks that there are too many people working to care for old and sick people? Does not the Progress Party agree that many more are actually needed, and that the old and sick will be allowed to live where they want, or should they also be forced, rationalised and streamlined, so that savings can also be made on them? These represent the main gravity of the employees of the district municipalities. It comes from the fact that the demography is such that there are many people living there. I think that older people in the districts are entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e180	The President recalls that the word 'bluff' is not a parliamentary term. The same applies to the concept of ‘customs duties’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e183	With regard to what Andersen initially referred to, it's a crazy claim. Let me do an example. If the relocation of state jobs is to be a district policy grip, it's okay for me. But it must be more efficient, it must be sensible, it must be practical, it cannot be done on the basis of purely regional policy considerations. That is what must be the basis for decentralising state tasks to the districts. But if it is beneficial, I am in favour of it, but not as a purely district policy instrument alone, if that is not reasonable. So for the overemployment in the public sector. Here we have a very different policy. If we think that the public sector had taken on market-related instruments, introduced competition in many areas, not least in terms of the first-line service itself and welfare production – it was the Sandbeck Committee that gave a position that the ministry did not like to read, because it said that on competitive outsourcing, a gain of between 5 and 30 p.p. was achieved. – then it’s pretty big gains to pick up. One can produce the same volume of welfare services with perhaps fewer employees if it is done more efficiently. It concerns organisation, and the way in which individual workers thrive, and the personnel policy to which they are exposed. I believe it is right – and I stand for it – that there is overemployment in most Norwegian municipalities because they live in a protected monopoly situation, where they are not exposed to competition. Thus, they do not have to produce services as efficiently as they would have had to if they had been exposed to competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e190	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e193	First, I would like to address the proposal in the vote. SV believes that people should choose where they want to live, but it is a social responsibility to enable them to make that choice in full freedom. The major differences in living conditions in Norway do not go between town and country, they go between poor and rich in both rural and urban areas. SV doesn't think that people move mainly from the village because it's so bad and poor and bad to live there, but because they get a thousand different signals every day that future is somewhere else, and that everything goes so much better in central areas. All of these signals that are given, especially to the youth, we believe that we are contributing to an understanding that in the village it is of no use. District policy is about providing equally good development conditions and opportunities for the whole country. For example, it's going to be an action that is important for the whole country as a broadband response. And if we think about a family in the establishment phase that's going to find a place to live, what would they look for? What qualities would they look for in addition to having a job? I think a family would look for a place where they had kindergarten space at a price they could afford, where the school was good, forward-looking and diverse, and not least where there was a cultural and leisure offer that was exciting and interesting. I have a lot of contact with the generation of young people, and they tell me when they move out of town, they move out – and they don't move back home – because cultural services are bad. In previous messages and debates, I have recorded that both the centre parties and the Workers' Party have been more concerned with culture as a district developer than they are in this round, and I could imagine challenging them a little bit to perhaps say something more if not this is an approach that is important to modern people, if not the cultural and experience side of everyday life is more important now than just focusing on jobs. SV believes that regional policy considerations need to be integrated into all major decisions. It has been said today that a lot of resources have been spent on district policy, and yet the movement flow has gone the wrong way. Yes, it has done so, in some cases because people have had free choice and wanted to move, but for some it is because many major decisions have been taken that have been centralising, and then district policy instruments have been used to try to remedy the damage to the policies that have been pursued in the sectors. This is one of the reasons why SV is a co-sponsor of a proposal to investigate the impact of decisions on regional policy before adopting them, so that one knows the consequences of them and, if necessary, can slow down, take other decisions or get an overview of which other regional policy measures one must take in order to remedy the damage. We think someone has to take a fight with powerful and powerful interests. SV has never believed that market forces can deal with this. Market forces are centralizing in themselves, so if you want to take into account something other than the center and the ones that have the most money, you have to use some policy tools to get it done. Otherwise, these reasons will come at the back, and the authorities will have to repair the damage. SV also calls for the establishment of principles for education, in particular IT education and public-sector IT initiatives. It's also the center parts on it. We believe that this effort must be heavy, and it must be decentralised in its being. It is impossible to squander such new efforts on the low-level higher education budgets that are now in place, nor can it be fed off with research funds in line with what is Norwegian public standards today. So if we say education, research, information and technology are going to be future, we have to do it really. There's no use in puslery. If it is to be the district developer, we must ensure that this effort comes first in the districts. The most important resources in the districts are people. In that case, population decline is becoming a major problem, and empowerment and culture are all the more important. Education is the most important strategic tool both for those who will give the individual more power and control over their own lives, and for those who will give different parts of the country more power over their future. There's been a lot of talk about education. SV believes that education is one of the most important things we can bet on, and then the municipal budgets mean a lot. As the deficits are now in the municipal sector, it is not possible for the municipalities to invest enough in the school to make it good enough and give children and young people enough experience of getting proper offers on the outskirts as well. It was also some of what I took up when it was about culture. This is also about giving young people and children experiences of participating in exciting and developing things and a memory of an upsurge that was exciting and rich, something you might imagine moving back to and giving your children a share of. In this sense, a cultural effort has a long-term and broad perspective. Then SV proposes that counties and county councils should be allowed to decide on the use of district policy funds. That's what we're all about, and it really surprises me, because it's just that in the districts you know where the shoe prints, where you need an extra effort. We believe that if you want to use regional policy funds for the primary tasks as well, there should be opportunities, because you have to be able to decide what is most appropriate. In the SND debate on Friday, SV submitted proposals that the SND framework for grants and risk loans should be increased. In the annual reports, at least since 1997, SND has pointed out that there are very many companies that are not starting, because there is not enough funding and because the risk-loan framework is too small. Most recently, the risk loan issue has been increased through various ex post government proposals, after the budget has been committed. SV sees it as very important to help the companies and the entrepreneurs who have an idea to establish themselves. That is why we consider it totally inappropriate that the framework in these areas should be so small that we have to say no to good projects, and it is quite clear in SND's annual reports that there are good projects that have the right to life that do not come up and stand up because there is enough risk capital. Then SV is more willing to spend a lot more money there, and then SV is prepared that when companies go well, they should join in and pull the load. It is true that society will be part of and reap from the gain they get. So I'm going to go into a theme that might come into the back of the book when we discuss district policy, and it's inland. District policies are very often just coasts and a lot of North Norway, and that's right, because there's a lot of problems there. However, in another way, the country has not been given the same place — and cannot get it either — because there is not so much fishing and also not so much aquaculture, and oil and gas are also in the sea. But inland has a lot of resources. As regards agriculture, more people have argued that it is important for agriculture to have living conditions that enable it to survive. But the hinterland also has an important resource called bioenergy. Bioenergy is environmentally friendly energy, and we need more environmentally friendly energy. Therefore, the hinterland can make a positive contribution to its development. It will provide domestic jobs, but not least will enable the hinterland to be part of the development of a modern energy that is environmentally friendly and forward-looking. In this respect, I would hope that more people could join in and support the proposal to bring forward projects in this regard, because this could be an important district developer for a domestic industry that could thus be part of a modern technology that is in full development, which will benefit not only the districts but also the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e223	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e229	In my view, the setting makes it possible to see that SV has a bit of a romantic idea in terms of parts of the fisheries policy. I was in my post inside a part of it. I want to use the opportunity to say a little more about it and put a few questions to SV. Free fishing for boats under 15 meters with passive tools, SV believes. It is almost so that one could be tempted to say that SV has a notion in Norwegian fishing industry that small is good. But that's not the reality. My first question to SV is: How can we in practice get free fishing for boats under 15 meters with passive tools, without exceeding the total quotas? The second question is, shall all boats over 15 metres be given resources to those less than 15 metres, so that they can fish freely, or does SV have a magic formula that provides enough raw material for all, without exceeding the international quota agreements laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e240	SV has no larger quotas than other parties – I would say the opposite. SV wants to build down the factory jet fleet. We have also written that, but the representative of the Workers' Party did not say anything about that. We want a redistribution from the factory jet fleet to the coastal fleet. The factory jet fleet takes the fish long before it lands. If you could wait and let more of the populations grow up and get closer to land before they are harvested, it would be enough both for free fishing for the boats below 15 meters and for them over 15 meters. It is such that there is a need for stable raw material access to the fishing industry, and it is difficult for boats under 15 meters to provide for this. Therefore, there is also a need for some larger boats in the coastal fishing fleet, which can ensure that. Then – if this is to become a reality – you must also comply with your delivery conditions. SV sees that both small and large coastal fishing vessels are needed. So it's in the ratios of the factory jet fleet SV will cut. It is entirely possible to harvest more if you make sure that those who are now sweeping the sea empty will take less. Then there will be room for both the slightly larger coastal fishing boats and those less than 15 meters. And it's a reality that very many of these little boats could get a good income if they had the opportunity to harvest something more. It could also be helpful for communities that are now struggling, to get on a line that would ensure that these resources also benefited communities better. This could be done by betting on the coastal fishing fleet and not on the factory jet fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e249	Both by Andersen's representative and by the opinion that SV is mainly associated with both the Christian People's Party and the Centre's party in comments and proposals. The large dividing lines go between the Labour Party, with support from the Advance Party and the Right, on the one hand, and the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV on the other hand – fortunately with some pluralities across these constellations. So challenge Karin Andersen – as I understand it – both the Labour Party and the Centre Party with regard to what culture has to say for the districts. I would like to send that letter to you. I think it is very important that she emphasise culture both as an advantage and as a potential for more jobs in many districts and for greater self-experiencing. The central party and SV are in the setting together about everything called culture, except for a warning about what SV will put on concretely in the next period. I can also confirm it by saying that for the Center Party's part, we have a program celebration of $1 billion more for culture over the next four years. So there's one point where I need a clarification. All three of these parties are occupied by youth as a dedicated bet area, just as the government is. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party stress the need for an overview of what workplaces exist. We ask the Government to evaluate the creation of a national competence database for district youth, for mutual benefit to young people, businesses and the business community. SV found no reason to join that comment. Was it a forgetfulness?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e263	No, it was no forget. The reason why SV has not been involved in this comment – in the same way that we are not involved in proposals and comments when it comes to positiveity agents – is not that we believe that these are not good measures, but that we have the position that we want municipalities and county councils to get their district policy money into pooling pots, and that they should be able to choose how they want to spend the money. In this way, we think these are good ideas, but we don't think it's right that the Storting should sit and decide in such detail what to do. If you want to create a national database based on local needs, we want them to have the freedom to use their money for this, sail if I think it might not be the most appropriate. I might think that regional databases are easier to have an overview and easier to create a local profile, so that you can profile what is the advantage of the different parts of the country or regions when you want to sell yourself as a good place of residence and work for young people. The reason why we are not in favour of this comment, nor are we in favour of the proposal for positive agents, is simply that we want to give local freedom with regard to the regional policy resources that are being given. The districts should be allowed to choose the measures they want to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e270	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e273	There are many words and many changing political constellations in this setting. The left is not represented in the municipal committee. I'm not going to go deep into all the comments, but I'm going to place the Left in some of the most important areas of district and regional policy. The very great political distinction in this matter obviously goes between the Progress Party and the other parties. The Progress Party considers centralisation to be positive and should be encouraged and will liquidate most of what can be called district policy. This would have been dramatic for the country, and I think most people should be happy that this is not a current policy. In the next round we have the Progress Party and the Right as the second most extreme alternative, with its relatively one-sided emphasis on transport and the business environment. The left agrees with the importance of this, but believes that a more ambitious and active policy is essential to ensure that people and resources are taken care of throughout the country. It's positive that at least the Right is on some notes in that direction. The left can join the notes where the Christian People's Party joins the two right parties, which underline the importance of a profitable business in all parts of the country. It is positive that the Right is included in the note that underlines the importance of SND and SIVA as birth helpers and supporters for good projects that would not otherwise start. It is a fact that lack of private capital is often a problem, and that profitable projects need the assistance of the public agency. It is not that public subsidies subsidise unprofitable activities on a large scale, as the district debate can often give the impression. The left agrees with the small degree of scepticism expressed against the emphasis of the Government on regional centre. Growth centre policy has been a means of centralisation for decades. Strong regional centres cannot operate without an active and viable surrounding area. Like the other central parties, the Left is on guard against the centralisation effect of the renewal of the public sector implemented by the Government. Conversion and efficiency are essential, but it is alarming that this goes so far beyond the external links and not to the same extent beyond the central bureaucracy. Users shall be centred. It is not just about streamlining the systems. The left welcomes minority comments on public transport, culture, municipal freedom and local economy, seed funds rather than state investment funds, active urban policies – to take a few scattered examples. The same applies to the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party on the labour problem. I have to say it surprises me that the seriousness of this challenge has not sunk deeper into the committee. Without increased labour migration, District Norway will bleed – perhaps not just soft, but startled. The government's objective of distorting measures from individual enterprises and industries to developing environments may be positive, but there is still reason to warn against rigid rules based on good objectives. District Norway has seen a lot of ‘project making’ where applicants and applications need to be adapted to criteria that do not always match needs and the most effective use. Support funds must be put in place where they are best placed to deliver results. Among the many alliances in the vote, we have the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. These members have a common desire to return a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities. The left reminds of the random results of enterprises and the administrative location of groups deciding the address of the municipal tax. An incentive for active industrial policy towards municipalities is important. It is therefore necessary to amend the rules before the company tax is returned to the municipalities under the old system. The left is pleased that there is still a large majority in this room to contribute to positive development and resource use in all parts of the country. In matters such as local economy, agriculture and fisheries policy, the view at a popular, regional level, etc., the Left will be able to associate mainly with the comments covering the centre parties and the Workers' Party. Finally, on the proposals submitted: the Left will support minority proposals Nos. One, two, three, four, five, six. We shall vote against proposal No. 7, and otherwise, the left vote for the three points of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e302	This is not really a line I had intended to take, but after the cruel ointment that was fired from the Left-Representative to the Advance Party, it was impossible not to provide a response. It was said that the distinction in terms of district policy goes between the Progress Party and the other parties. Yeah, it could be. But it is true that if we look at the current policy, I would say that no regional policy objectives have been fully achieved. The representative can hardly say otherwise. With regard to the relationship between efforts, level of ambition, objectives and achievements, today’s rural policy has not met its objectives. The migratory flow is still large, and we see that the district parties are becoming increasingly marginalised. Obviously, those who are to target the excellence of the districts are no longer meeting so many voters. With regard to the centralisation trend and the description I tried to give in my main post, I still believe that it is quite adequate for the reality of Norwegian districts and the situation they are in today, and I do not believe that there is a need for a separate policy for the districts. For example, if the districts use their local resource base, they certainly have a better chance than cities of doing well. Giving the districts crutches only hurts worse. Making someone dependent on well-meaning support measures will in the long run prove to be a bad solution if you really want to help someone. Being able to stand on your own is actually the best thing. This also applies to Norwegian districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e311	My claim is that the Progress Party has a far too simple view of what is involved in district policy. We must not forget that Norway's country is 200 miles long, that there are large distances, and that there is a need for specific measures. When district policy has not been the topic in recent years, it is because there are individual issues that have gone a lot on the welfare of individuals, and, to put it another way, egoism that has come into focus. In fact, district policy has been true in the machinery for a long time, and the one who has spoken district policy has been easily viewed both as old-fashioned and perhaps nearly a fossil. I hope that district policy will be a theme in the forthcoming election campaign. The fact that the Progress Party in its policy does not see that the parts of the country are different gave us a clear example of when there was a debate on freight balancing in the Odel Stingen in December 1998. Then the members of the Progress Party said in the vote: ‘These members argue that the legislative proposal must have its background in the government’s view that it is not good for freight costs to be part of the petrol and automotive diesel price.’ The setting does not show why it is different with fuel than with a shoe and tie. When we get such comments as this, it seems to tell enough about a party's district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e323	The only proposal that the Left chose not to join was proposal No. 7, from SV. That proposal should, as I understand it, be a proposal that was fully and completely at the heart of the Left. It is a matter of giving full freedom to local communities and maritime regions to decide how to use their regional policy instruments. On many occasions, the left has strongly advocated the decentralisation of power and not to outdo local communities from a central point of view. So here SV was going to make a reality of such a principle, and then the left signals that they're going to go against it. Why does the Left not trust that the local government and county councils are the best fit to decide where to put the regional policy measures? Is it so that they think it's the Storting that's going to sit here and fine-looking in the way we do now? Would it not have been better for the bet to be based on local needs and priorities? And then a question about SND. SND has had to refuse support for many projects for many years because the framework has been too scarce. There have been projects with high risk but with high potential. So the SND has not had enough money to support this. What has been in SND’s annual reports in recent years is that this has actually been projects that should have been supported, because they had come to provide many new businesses and jobs in the future. Does the Left agree with SV that there is a need to increase the scope of SND in the case of grants to enterprises and in the case of risk capital, so that SND does not have to put good projects in the drawer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e333	I think the representative Karin Andersen spoke well in the introduction, about leaving as much as possible to the local populace when it comes to deciding and taking the decisions that concern their citizens. Now there is a proposal, no. 7, from SV in the setting. I think it's going a little bit far in this situation. I think there is a need for a maturation process here. In fact, it says in the proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals that the bulk of the regional policy instruments be incorporated into the allocation frameworks entirely made available by municipalities and county councils...’ This is a rather long step also in relation to the message we just addressed, the SND message, where we took important steps towards more decision-making power for the regions, among others. by granting decision-making powers to regional governments. I think this proposal goes a bit far right away, but the left shares the intention and the thought behind in this context. With regard to the SND and the size of the framework, it is clear that it has been painful in various budgetary processes to see that SND's appropriations have been cut down, when we know of all the applications around for good projects that would have led to many future jobs in the districts, but that have not received funds and have not received the necessary birth aid. But there have been other overriding considerations about budgeting, and then there has been such a package. However, if the situation is such from a general point of view, the Left will certainly be a matter of giving priority to both grant funds and risk capital, which then preferably goes to the regional decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e345	I think it's a little unfair when the representative Kongshaug points out that the Progress Party was against the freight balancing grant in its time. This is quite marginal in relation to the large distance costs involved in fuel charging. On the other hand, the promotion party will lower the fees far more than the 15-20 ears per. litres for which this balancing charge had to be paid. So it's like the Left is one of the parties that will actually have the highest car, fuel, petrol and diesel taxes in this country. And what about the districts? Is it completely insignificant to the districts that we have taxes on fuel leaked at the end of the world, while we are a long-distance country with poor roads? So this is the Left's policy. The left's gift to the districts is to give them the highest price of petrol that can – or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e350	The answer is, it's not like that. The left will not go in for the highest petrol charges that can be expected. We have to have a realistic alternative to the need for a car in District Norway, but we also have to be able to see that the car in many areas is a problem and leads to significant investments in order to make this work at all. In the long term, it has to be that one has to pay a part in one of the world's richest countries for what over time will pollute and be a nuisance to all of us and future generations. We also need to be able to have a differentiated view of car and car use, and to recognise that in cities and agglomerations, where we have good collective offers – and it must be a goal to get them even better – it must cost to drive a car, while in the districts it should actually be cheaper to drive a car. And then the fractal smoothing systems just come into the picture to fix it. Nor is it the case that the Left is going in for bad roads in the districts. We're trying to find the best way to get the funds twisted so that it's just the districts that are being favored in terms of roads. We saw that the last time we revised the budget, which included: was set aside for 70 million. kr for breed protection. Racial protection is done in the districts, not in the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e359	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e362	I am very pleased that there is so much uprising in the Great Britain about the main lines of regional and regional policy. We have done a lot in this area of policy, although, of course, there are still major challenges. Although we don't want to or can direct where people move, we think it's important to bet on more attractive places in the districts where people want to live, instead of so many move to the big cities. Then we need robust societies that have equivalent living conditions for both women and men at different stages of life. If women and youth are not willing to invest in the districts, districts have no future. There is a great deal of will to bet on young people around the country, but it is important to avoid that the bet is only ‘talk and fine words’. The need for informal meeting places is one of the most frequently mentioned issues when attending conferences for young people around Norway. Then there is a need for money, but also for the young person to make the premise for the design of the informal meeting places. There is also an increased understanding in local communities that it is important to facilitate both women’s and men’s demand for work, services and leisure services. However, we still have a piece left to ensure that women benefit as much as men from the instruments provided in regional and regional policy. This I will follow up. I'm proud of the successful outing, which former State Council Opseth introduced. The government will continue the marginalisation of its own small-scale community effort aimed at those municipalities that have a great decline in the population and a great distance from the centre. The important work of developing public service offices to ensure welfare and service provision will also be continued. I have recorded that the Government of some teams, perhaps especially of the Center Party, is criticised for speaking with two tongues in regional and district policy, because the Government wants to bet on both strong regions and maintain the settlement structure throughout the country. Even the newspaper Nations does not understand the resistance of the Workers' Party to bet on urban cities. On Friday, 8 June, the United Nations highlights the importance of the role of rural cities for districts that will not only stop but reverse the shift. My position is that without ‘strong’ rural cities that can offer attractive jobs, services and not least cultural services both to their own population and to the surrounding area, including the outskirts, the outskirts will really get into a difficult situation. I believe that the rural cities are essential to manage to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, and are absolutely necessary to slow down population growth in the big cities. The regional and small-scale efforts of the government complement each other and are not contradictory. We know that jobs still matter most to the choice of place of residence. That's why we've started a systematic effort to decentralize government tasks and functions. Here we can already refer to results. In addition, we will continue to make active efforts to develop a forward-looking and competitive business in the districts. In this context, the business environment is a successful example. At the same time, we see that people want more than just work. Therefore, it is important that we achieve good cooperation between private, voluntary and public actors on state location, industrial development, infrastructure, education, kindergartens, housing, culture, etc. In this development, the Government wants to stimulate joint efforts for regional development, while at the same time delegating power and authority to the local and regional level, for it is these actors who know best where the shoe prints. Finally – but not least – I would like to highlight in particular the importance of culture, attitudes and values for both housing and living conditions in the districts. Local communities must appear so attractive that people choose to move there as well as to live there. It imposes great demands on the ability of the community to be open, to include those who want to move there – no matter what background they have and where they come from – and at the same time give them equal opportunities and rights to participate in society and use their resources, because we all need them. Women and men, children and young people and everyone of all ages must come up with their opinions and opinions. It's about getting an opinion, that it's different is something positive and can give communities something that's very valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e380	Future researchers say that the majority of future companies, the ones we're going to work for in 20 years, are not yet created. But we know that many of these new businesses will come into the aquaculture industry along the coast, and everything is now 20 pst. of the population – those living along the coast – for 40 pst. of the export income to Norway. So it is that an important framework condition, the road standard, is too poor for many farm-friendly localisations. One cannot move meridans to the road, it is the road that must be built for meridians. The Christian People's Party believes that the state would have prioritised its own business if the state politicians were given control over the road media through task-sharing, but here the Labour Party holds on to the head of the road as the «king of the nose». It is frustrating when the fish product needs to be transhipped because the road lacks axle load. And it's molar-like to run thousands of cartloads across Langfjella to Eastfold to reach the continent. Long is it, expensive is it, environmentally hostile is it, and quality destroying is it. What will the Labour Party and the Government do to build a coastal line that can accommodate the maritime adventure over the next 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e389	There is no doubt that there is an enormous potential for development, jobs and housing in the broad sense of aquaculture. This is especially true in North Norway, but it is also true in parts of the West, and we should be able to exploit it so that we actually get jobs in an area where I think there are huge opportunities, and that is a lot of what we haven't yet done. In this context, of course, it is also important, as the representative of Apelthun Seele pointed out, that it is a matter of wide-ranging transport. Today's debate on the national transport plan is not, for we have had a wide debate on this in the United Kingdom just a short time ago, and the emphasis was placed on linking labour market regions and developing what we can call transport corridors, where road, rail and sea transport were to be seen in a context. And here, of course, the Government also attaches great importance to developing nodes related to different transport infrastructure. And there is no doubt that good access to the main transport years is important for the industry in the districts, and this also applies, of course, in relation to the fishing industry. When it comes to the question of what the counties will be responsible for in the future, etc., we will have ample opportunity to discuss it in more detail next Thursday. I will come back to our arguments as to why we think it is right to do it the way we have recommended, and to which I perceive that a majority in the Stortinget, at least in the vote, has so far joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e398	The Right Party and the Labour Party distinguish layers in the view of the relative size of the public and private in the future society. As we have seen in the past, the county municipality has become the main player in the large-scale public service, and the setting talks about a larger regional space for development processes. It is also true that many of us have noticed the difference in pace between the private business and the public in these previously tried the tools. The question is essentially: what is the purpose of the Workers' Party reconsidering its role as a member of the County Council in relation to these roles and, where appropriate, the settlement of the health sector, to which at least the Workers' Party has joined? Does the Workers' Party see conflict roles between the County and SND, for example, or conflict areas against the private? Since it has now become so legitimate to talk about fish in regional policy, not least farming, let me return to these many twenty-year scenarios, one of which is that the value of fish and farming should rise from 30 billion to – let's say – 230 billion kroner in this perspective. Does the Council of State see that these framework conditions that breeding has acquired in the near past can torpedo this dream of the future? And if the answer to these limiting conditions is the salmon agreement with the EU, does the Workers' Party have a bold proposal in relation to other farming species, such as white fish and trout, which are allegedly not affected by these provisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e407	The representative Hoddevik had many questions, so I have to apologize if I can't answer everything that was asked. But first of all, what matters is the county council and the role that the county council is hopefully assigned after the reading here on Thursday, and also in the extension of the debate that we have here today, I think is quite correct. I think it is very important that we manage to delegate more power to the municipalities and county councils. This also applies to the availability of some of the tools at our disposal, not least in the area of regional and regional policy. The government already started for the current year by giving up some grant schemes, so to speak, to the county councils, because we believe that they are closer to where people live, and are better able to do so, than that we should sit and control things in detail, for example. by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I'm glad that there's agreement to go further on that thought and further on that way. So, of course, it's always a challenge to be able to coordinate the different instruments at our disposal. It concerns SND, SIVA, the department, county, etc. There I also believe that a good basis has been laid through the SND message that has recently been dealt with here in the house, which has also given clear signals to decentralize more. I feel that we are on a very good track in coordinating the use of instruments in a good way. Then I want to say that it is not that the Workers' Party and the Government are against private business being in the districts as well. We are totally dependent on the fact that private business is also in the districts. Because it can't be either – or, it can't be either private or public. We have to have both. And let me just use one example: Wågår kommune, a small municipality in the Gudbrandsdalen in Oppland, which most people know about, large population decline initially, has now taken part in the special outing of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, has managed to create new optimism through the country's cheapest youth homes, through commercial gardens, through local development, through deliberate investment in culture, etc., and they also have the pleasure to get Stein Erik Hagen to establish his accounting department in Vågå. And that's both the two things – private and public – we have to do if we're to get people to move there. I would just like to say that for 15 jobs that were advertised, there were 70 applicants in Wågå. It shows that it's useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e416	The councils were aware that moving was a problem. It wasn't surprising. That competitive business was important, I can actually agree very much. However, when we look at the general framework conditions for Norwegian farms, which are largely located in the districts, they are not the very best today. I just want to remind you that the Labour Party government together with the Christian People's Party actually decided on the worst tax increase of the time for this year, and a lot of new businesses that didn't have VAT before got VAT this year. The framework conditions go counter-clockwise in Norway for Norwegian businesses, because while they lower taxes and charges in Europe, we increase them in Norway. It is not good to imagine that districts can get new businesses on such a background. It is therefore the case that the main objective of Norwegian district policy has long been to maintain housing in the districts, but it has been moderated in recent years to maintain the main features of housing patterns, as it is called. But despite the political economic effort, we see that the migratory flows from the rural areas of Norway are following developments in several other countries that are spending significantly less on district policy. Of course, people have to move wherever they want, independently, you ask me, of what politicians might think. But does the Council of State think that it is realistic to believe that if we continue to pursue the same traditional regional policy effort, with the same traditional, set targets that we have had for many years, then the objective of district policy will be achieved and the rebalancing flow reversed? Why hasn't the removal power turned around long ago if the government's policy is so excellent? The councils boasted that she was proud of the party's outing. Why in the world hasn't the moving power turned around long ago? And another question: when will it, in that case, turn around, with the excellent policy the Council of State claims she has in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e424	I believe at least that there is one thing we can see – and it's good to know when we're going to an election campaign – and it's that if the Progress Party were to decide district policy in this country, there probably wouldn't have been so many people who lived outside our biggest cities and towns. But we just have to take that with us. Yes, I think we have succeeded quite well in the rural and regional policy of Norway. And if we look at it in a slightly longer perspective than just one or two years ago, we have had a relatively stable pattern of residence in Norway if we look at it at the sub-national level and compare it with other countries, such as the United States. Sweden. At the same time, of course, we have new challenges, and especially the population growth we have here in the Oslo region. Yeah, moving power's strong. The question is, are we not trying to do anything about it because we think it is important to try to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, or are we not? I understand that the Progress Party is not particularly interested in doing anything about it, yes, the representative Andersen even said from the Chair instead that there is no «need for a separate policy for the districts». No, if one really wears those glasses, and looks like the world and believes that without using specific tools from the Biggest and Government, we can maintain the main features of the housing pattern, but believe that the market alone is going to solve this, then it's like believing in Christmas. That's not the reality. We know that if the market forces were to run all alone, there were very many parts of this country that had not had access to many basic welfare services, to which we actually believe that everyone around the country, wherever they live, should have access. I must also say that the representative Andersen said that the Workers' Party had been involved in the worst tax policy of the time is wrong. It may be time for the Progress Party to show up its accounts soon when they promise a lot of tax relief, because it means less to welfare goods, to which a lot of people in the Chamber are concerned that everyone in the whole country will have access.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e435	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on its commitment to the relocation of jobs, a plan launched by Odd Roger Enoksen in its district policy outsourcing in 1999, and where the Labour Party rejected the plans for the first 65 workplaces to be moved out. It is good that the Labour Party has turned around here, even though I do not fully understand why the Council of State could not contribute to a plan that was more conservative both for the communities it is in, and for the jobs that will be in force. But she is looking for support from the Progress Party to reject it in the Stortinget. Then there is a need for a dementia in relation to the nations. It goes through the setting, and it goes through my post today, that the Center Party wants to build towns. There is a great difference between the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV who want both – and, both towns and indeed, to take the many municipalities that cannot be built-up, more seriously than to call it a small-scale community effort, of which even the Council of State is rich, and which applies to a few municipalities. In fact, it says in the setting that there are some municipalities in the counties that have most of these small communities. So it's a good thing to ignore the municipalities that are now experiencing loss compensation, the changes in the taxation of power plants, the criteria for agricultural offices and sports facilities, and the distribution of means of transport. From my own county there is a letter from the Presidency of Saudi and Suldal. They ask not to be regarded as small communities, but as municipalities with which the government sets up dialogues when they need measures to take care of the constitution. That's what the Center Party calls talking to two tongues, just climbing a little bit beyond to a few that they call small communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e446	I don't always understand where the Center Party will, because I feel that the Labour Party and the Center Party in regional and regional policy really agree on a lot, even though we disagree on some instruments. And making it a difficult matter that there should be the opposite of a particular little community effort, or bet with the municipalities that are struggling with most relocation, and bet on towns or regions, is, in my opinion, wrong, because the two things are closely related. And it's not right, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa here says, that we're just climbing out, or we're not interested in the small municipalities as well. Yes, we are. However, we have some different arrangements on which instruments we think we need to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, and on the possibilities for all municipalities to offer equivalent services, and thus also changes in the local economy, on which we are going to have a debate on Thursday. Neither is it right, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa says, that the government has turned its back on localization policy. It is clear that this government has adopted new state guidelines on how to establish state jobs in the future. The general rule shall be that they are to be established outside Oslo and there shall be particular good reasons for their establishment in Oslo. But it's not just about new jobs, it's also about functions, it's about tasks, and it's about major reorganisations. I think it's good that the Center Party agrees with that and has talked about it for a long time, but I think they can also give credit because it was actually we who agreed, without any point in themselves. But I think we don't need any new, comprehensive investigations on what should be moved out. I think we know enough to know that it's a proper grip, and we're busy referring to results. In one year we have already decided to move out 200 jobs, and I will guarantee that in the next few weeks and months there will be more concrete proposals from this government. And I think that's actually more important than creating new plans and new investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e455	Governments say the government knows enough about the effect in some areas. Then I understand a little better why the Workers' Party and the Government disagree with the need to investigate the impact of major decisions and policy changes on district policy. The government is not interested in making visible, and it believes that SV and several of the other parties are unlucky. It's a good idea to know in advance how things work. There may not be such a need to decentralise jobs again if such considerations have initially been taken into account, and then double the cost of setting up. In addition, the Government does not wish to provide an analysis of the impact of ICT developments on the rural labour market. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party will not join in and look at it and present it, so that we can have an offensive strategy for this to be a good district developer, in addition to being a good nutrition developer for the whole country. Then there are two issues that concern the home state of both the Council of State and me, on which I could imagine challenging the Council of State. One concerns the development of bioenergy, which is environmentally friendly energy needed by Norway and from which it has substantial resources. What's the reason why the government is so reluctant to bet on this, and that it almost has to be pushed into being on bets here that would give environmentally friendly energy, while in the case of environmentally unsustainable energy, it has no limits on the speed at which it should proceed. And then it's about transport. In Hedmark, much of the heavy transport is timber. It should be on the railways, both there and elsewhere. But it is the case that the railway has an additional charge on the wagon load which makes the railway less competitive when it comes to transporting timber. Why does the Government want to keep this fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e469	It's not right, as Andersen's representative says, that we're not interested in seeing the effects of what we're doing in relation to the districts. The same is true in relation to ICT. This government has – and I am glad that a majority in the Stortinges also agree with it – on the contrary a rather offensive effort when, among other things, it does. ICT, where we have clearly said that broadband is something that everyone in all parts of the country should have access to, and of course we are prepared to contribute to it. When I said that we know enough and do not need further investigations, it was about the value of deploying more government jobs. I believe that it is not just that we need it to maintain the main features of the settlement, it is not without reason that Stein Erik Hagen is placing his accounting department at risk. It is probably because it is cheaper for the company – without me having studied the accounts in any way. It's because there's stable labour, and it's because the municipality's set up with premises and plots, so that it also pays off, in fact, to have such jobs in the districts. And in the technological world in which we live, it's clear that very many jobs can be as well in a small district district as they can be in central districts, and that gives our districts far more opportunities than was the case before. So to the specific question of, among other things, bioenergy. I agree with Andersen, the representative, that there is a great potential for producing more bioenergy, among other things. in Hedmark. It was also one of the issues I met with the Hamar Regional Council last week, where we also discussed whether we can get something in cooperation that would allow you to make better use of that resource. So there's no disagreement between SV and the Working Party. We may have a little disagreement about how to do it, but here I feel sure that we're going to be able to get to something, and that's the important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e478	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e481	District-Norway is suffocated by taxes and government overmanagement. The inheritance tax pushes long-term private ownership out of the districts and cuts the close links between the local owners and the local government levels that have previously been a positive contribution to the development of the districts. The corporate tax goes straight into the state treasury. It deprives districts of the opportunity to exploit their own value creation potential, and centralised land-use planning deprives districts of the possibility of using their own land. As a representative of a party that is primarily to speak the case of the coast and the districts, I have read this communication with great interest. I have noticed in particular how the scenarios presented have been supported by other communications and propositions across a wide range of issues. The Labour Party government is adding to a stronger centralisation and greater disincentive to the districts than we've ever seen before. The paradox for me is how, through its policy, the centre parties in several areas are depriving the districts of development opportunities on their own premises. In their comments on this communication, they appear to be the prime champions of the cause of the districts. Yes, here the double communication is complete. For what is it that binds the districts more than any other pig and braves them for both human resources and capital? Indeed, there is a lack of investment, a lack of right to dispose of their own valuables, an over-taxation and a lack of rights and the possibility of an equivalent offer for passenger and freight transport. These parties, which opted for increased willingness to invest in the infrastructure of the districts, have countered the whole of this large-scale period of increased investment. The same parties, together with the Workers' Party, have also deducted direct corporate tax from the municipalities. In addition, the Central Party has raised a monument above itself by providing a cultural message that governs both state and private investment for the next ten years straight into the Oslo Centre. Of the Bjørvika development plans presented, it is clear where public investment is to be located. And where public money goes in front, they go in private – we can see that. The central parties seem to believe that it is right and fair that District Norway should increasingly finance the development of physical infrastructure through tolls. It's a betrayal of the districts. And when the same parties, ever in cooperation with the Workers' Party, have, at the same time, increased the remoteness of the business through a totally unfair charging of the forms of transport on which the districts depend, they have at the same time proved to the degrees their district hostility that they should blush when they get in touch with others for a little district friendly policy. There is a lot of sensible policy in the Right's remarks, but I have nevertheless noticed the party's zeal after abolishing the selective subsidies, while I have noticed that, at least in my county, it seems to be an increasing impatience among the Right's rapporteurs to get the district development in place through tolls. But there must be limits to everything. And along the coast is the limit of the longest reached! What is supposed to be continuous housing and working areas is broken down into toll areas. Today, toll pollution has almost the same function as the city walls of the Middle Ages with the possibility of extra taxation that is totally unfair and affects the districts much more than the central eastern region. I want to take a closer look at the scenarios of developments along the west coast that have been outlined. It is clear that our traditional business is to be terminated. Due to the lack of public investment infrastructure and the removal of the selective commercial aid that has been established to ensure a competitive maritime business cluster for Norway, these scenarios will impact. For everyone who wants to see, it is quite obvious that, through a long series of questions to the Government, the answer still has not been clearly answered, namely why the Government has not put forward proposals for measures that can ensure Norwegian competitiveness for our maritime competence. The answer is simple: the government intends to leave this area to those countries that use selective support to maintain and strengthen their competitiveness in this area. I now think the different parties should be honest enough to say directly, and not pursue any kind of promise policy that is not being followed up. But that's the way it is, as you approach the end of a big session, the promises are loose and sound beautiful in the ears of those who are going to go to the elections. But people can read, and people are not stupid. People understand when they see what's actually happening in the cases that come as their own propositions, and that in sum is a business that has been the Norwegian parade. Selective business support is something that all European countries have in the field of competitive business. If we're going to wind up selective business support for competitive business, yes, then we're going to end up with what's going to be Norway's future, what we're competent to do, and on which we should retain competence, and which is also going to carry Norway through the post-oil age.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e500	When the Bondevik government declared that it would use the whole country, optimism was generated in District Norway. It was important to bet on slowing the removal, preferably turning it around. It's nice to live in District Norway. District Norway has opportunities, and the movie "High and Enthusiast" has shown some of this. More than half a million people have seen the film and become excited about it, that people care, that non-governmental organisations and the community work, that small communities produce large quantities of exports – an export we all serve on. The majority refer to a 1999 survey conducted by the MMI for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, where 50 pst. the population says that they will live in the districts, or maybe they will live in the districts. The Committee stresses, and it has been said before today, that 3⁄4 of us today live in cities and towns. Today we have had a myth, namely that the districts are subsidized. Today's Businesses rebuilt it in connection with the film «High and Enthusiastic». They forgot to take into account that in Berlevåg fish were landed for between 300 and 400 million. kr that generated an export income of between 250000 and 300000 kr per. lives in Berlevåg. There are few other small communities, and no big ones, that can show such results. What is often referred to as subsidies to District Norway is, in fact, the reversal of the value creation that is taking place. I am pleased that the Government is putting forward an active policy on the relocation of state jobs, which has also been the subject of today's debate. Some of the difficult things are all the nice words about what we're going to do, but we're not doing. Later this week we will debate Innst. S. No 341 on fire and explosion protection. There we have a department of DBE – the Directorate of Fire and Explosive Protection – TKT, which is a nationwide supervisory department. The department takes equal price and has equal control wherever in the country. It is present together with 11 employees in Hamar, Moss, Drammen, Tønsberg, Kristiansand, Bergen, Ålesund, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø, but they are proposed for closure. So we often say something beautiful, and then we do the opposite. The progress party has today been in charge. This morning on TV 2, Carsten O pointed out. Five how to save up to 80 000 kroner as a Norwegian in Denmark by buying a car, because the Danish fees were so high. The market adapts, sells the cars cheaper to Denmark, and the Norwegians can save 80 000 kroner, because in Denmark the fees are high. Earlier today, the Progress Party has also been involved in the flight charges. It is true that prices are too high, and Nordlys had a big first page on June 7, ‘Shock increase in flight prices’, about 75 pst. 10 years of price increase. It's huge. The representative Torbjørn Andersen mentioned the high air fares between Tromsø and Oslo, but only 10 pst. of this increase is attributable to the charges. It is the market that provides the other 65 pst. The market adapts charges to the disadvantage of us consumers. This is a district policy that we in the Christian People's Party cannot participate in. I am surprised that the Progress Party wants a district policy in which the market operates unilaterally. As politicians, we must take this on board and rule. I have personally received promises from the Minister of Finance that he is in favour of the fees, and I hope he will follow up on what he said to me in the North Light on 3 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e522	I'm glad that there's a majority here in Stortingen to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, and that there will be equivalent living conditions throughout the country. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not stand for such a goal. The party of progress says on the contrary that they do not see it as a goal to maintain the settlement in peripheral regions of the country. What "peripheral stroke" means in this context, I'm not sure, but I'm assuming that this is the whole of District Norway. I believe to record that Torbjørn Andersen also confirmed earlier today. So this is what we live in District Norway can expect if the right parties have a stronger influence in Norwegian politics. District Norway, in my view, is the cornerstone of the value creation in our country, and we must ensure that the potential that lies in the districts can be exploited even better. There will be major problems for the whole country, and especially for the so-called central struts, if we cannot maintain and develop the value creation of the districts. However, some people find it difficult to understand that distances cost something, and that some means are needed to reduce distance costs, both for business and for those living in the districts. For a long time, the myth has been created that districts are a waste of money that is unprofitable to operate, and that is a cost item for cities. It's not like that at all. The industry in the districts does not need ‘packages’ of different kinds, but there must be the possibility for them to compete on the same trackside as the enterprises located in the so-called ‘central’ struts. This means that we still need different balancing mechanisms that guarantee a level playing field. I know that the right-wing parties don't like the concept of cohesion, but it just clearly shows that right-wing policy is not enough to secure the future of the districts. We need even more instruments than we have today to promote as much equal competitive conditions as possible across the country. I want to commend the Government for having got them to relocate state-owned businesses from Oslo, and I am pleased with the demands that are now being made on the establishment of new state-owned businesses. I just want to add that when emigration and re-establishment are now taking place outside Oslo, it must be done not only in cities and large centres, but also in smaller places in our long-term country. With today's computer technology, there are great opportunities for different public and private businesses also in the typical Building Norway. It is important that the public take such action as it is done here, to show that there are opportunities outside the central strata. How should private operators dry to bet in District Norway if this possibility is not seen by the State itself? Statistics on State investment per year The population carries a bid that it is here in the Oslo area that most of the public money is being invested. There must be the possibility to establish much more national measures outside Oslo, thus contributing to the spread of activity, competence and investment across the country. I am also satisfied with the commitment to building robust regional centres. Such centres must have the services required in a modern society, and there must be transport services that enable them to reach those centres for those living in the rural areas of the region. I believe, however, that it will not be life for these regional centres if at the same time there is no commitment to good offers and active value creation in the rural areas of the region. This means that both localised industries need to be invested, and that we need to develop new business activity in the districts. District Norway has many opportunities, and therefore the districts have a good future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e545	In the last growing-up period, I was a member of the municipal committee. At that time, the Central Party was in opposition, and according to the Central Party representatives, it was black in District Norway. The central party even had a suggestion that the population should be maintained in all municipalities. Then it happened that the Center Party came into position, i.e. in government. Then the whole district of Norway understood that it was getting money and joyous to the country. But what really happened? It would be wrong for me to answer ‘nothing’, for words came – a lot of beautiful words. But did there come money? No, promises of more money to the districts came only when the Senter party came out of government again, and now it's election year. So the central parts are better for District Norway when they're in opposition than they are in position. The Labour Party wants people to be able to live in the districts. But the Workers' Party believes it is important to ensure people's freedom to choose their place of residence – in order to use the entire country's resources. In Norway it is possible to live in the districts, and fortunately many choose it, often because it brings closeness to nature, clean air and better burgundy and living conditions. But many people choose to move. That's what people have done at all times, even when the central government had the power. It is important to focus on small communities and robust regions that can counteract relocation to the central municipalities. Investing in regions and strong community centres can mean that young people move not to Oslo but to towns and cities nearby. Young people have different desires than previous generations had. They want easier access to services, they want sport, they want easier access to cultural services and live in wider communities, and in particular they want easier access to environments of competence. Cities act as important hubs. In this context, it is important to see the relationship between the labour market, housing and service regions. Municipalities such as Stange, Hamar, Ringsaker, Elverum, Tynset and Kongswinger are strong centers and cities, and have been curbed for the emigration from Hedmark. When Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in Political Quarter June 8 blamed the Workers' Party for centralization, among others. mentioned post and telecommunications, I must remind her that the closure of post offices first speeded up with the then state council Johan J. Jakobsen, who put 117 post offices in one click. And today, former transport policy spokesman from the Senterpartiet, Magnus Stangeland, director of the Post Office, controls the major changes that are now taking place there. The working party has followed up and ensures that the districts continue to offer postal services with good availability and good opening hours. I cannot participate in a district policy debate without mentioning what is absolutely necessary, especially for business, namely good road links. Hedmark counties have the longest name in the country. The complex is bound together by a forte of a total length of 18 644 km. New industries, of course, want good road links to the market, and it is therefore important that rural policy be seen in the context of existing transport services. People have to work to live in the districts as well. The new localisation policy of the Workers' Party has begun to work. Important decisions have been made to move state enterprises out of the Oslo area. I registered that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said in the same interview that the Workers' Party government is following up on Enoxsen's relocation program. There we have the difference between word and action. Because it's not enough to think about it, wish it – it actually has to act on it. And so we in the Labour Party have done that. The Enoch left the emigration program well hidden in the drawer in the government quarter. The working party has developed the plans and gained speed in the relocation of state jobs. After all, that's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e563	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e566	Of course, the debate on regional policy goes along the traditional dividing lines: those who think things are going very well, and those who think things are going pretty bad. I must admit that I belong to the last group, those who believe that things aren't going very well. It's a job that's now done, rationalizing the public sector. And what's going on? Well, it's the closure of public jobs. The reduction of public jobs in rural areas and the reduction of the measures to allow firms to compete in rural areas. Let me take a simple thing like transport support: if you're going to build a boat, or build any construction, you have to carry steel, and the distortion of competition reaches, for example. in the case of a common snout, a difference of 10 million. kr only in more expensive steel. If you could build that boat here in Oslo, on Aker mek. – which no longer exists – transport aid would not be necessary. However, boats are no longer being built in Oslo or on Aker mek. We are plagued in the districts with such simple, obvious things as that people must have the opportunity to make money on what they are doing. I would like to say a few words, for example. about the stockfarmers, and those who fish for sharks. At sea, they are plagued by selvedge and selvedge problems — at least on the Helgeland coast and further north — the crow’s balls eat up the tares, and a piece of stone almost doesn’t exist, for it has taken the selenium. The otter eats up what's found in fish around the rocks, so it's not much to live on. On land, it's predators and youives that make it impossible for the sheep farmers to keep up with what they're going to do. The post is closed, the Equations Offices are closed, public services are disappearing, while the gigantomania in Oslo and central cities are huge. I sit on the finance committee and see that we have approx. 7-8 billion of free money that we're going to invest. They are largely used here in the eastern part of the country. In terms of the plan to renew Oslo east, we don't know the price tag. Maybe there's 100 billion to be used. Who's going to do that job? It'll seem like a vacuum cleaner in the districts, people will come here to work. – One can shake his head, but I know the loop in the passage. We have the opportunity to have public jobs. The Brønnøsund registers are a typical example that we can have 300 jobs based on new technology. We have broadband and opportunities in this regard, so it's just a matter of the state prioritizing a little bit differently. That is the way to improve regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e579	I'm glad the message gets so much support. Of course, there are some proposals, but the main thrust is for the majority to endorse. In particular, I am pleased with the message's reference to the challenges of small communities. Several peripheral municipalities and small communities will experience a decline in the population. Not everyone is or will be employed in agriculture. That's why everyone depends on these societies being so big and good that people both have jobs and have their basic needs met both in terms of well-being and social conditions. We humans are such that we do not thrive alone. We would like to be with others and have offers that both fill and season our everyday life. A greater awareness of a municipality's involvement in small communities, I think, can counteract some of the relocation. A four-year bet, as the message adds up, is good and necessary. Youth moving does so with a background in education. That's inherently a challenge. It's also a fact that in many outlying municipalities people have little education. With the investment it is now in decentralised education, this can be corrected. We see that, for example, Meråker municipality, together with the Nord-Trøndelag High School, offers nurse training. When such projects appear, it is important that we have financial instruments designed, inter alia, for: to ensure predictability in the institutions and to take particular account of districts. Such projects strengthen the provision of services to the population, strengthen small communities and provide special training to women. This is good working party policy. In all parts of the country there must be a profitable and competitive business. District holdings are usually small and have a high distance from relevant food and research institutions and larger markets. This means that we need to continue with extraordinary efforts for business development. Here are SIVA and SND good co-players. The amazing thing is that the Progress Party doesn't see it. They consistently refuse to take inwards that jobs are created, among other things. grants and loans from SND. The evaluation of the regional development grant shows that a combination of grants and skills-enhancing actions is most effective. We must also ensure, in this respect, that the reform of competences becomes a real offer to the smaller enterprises throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e594	Norway has had an active district policy every year after the war. We've managed to keep a scattered settlement and living settlements. This is due to different instruments, not least agricultural aid. But technology has also taken Norway. When I started working in the Post Office in the 1960s, people often had an errand in the post office. Today, most people come in just the last week before Christmas to send Christmas packages. Such development forces appropriate solutions, and Post in Store is such a solution. Here I don't understand the Center Party and their concern, when we know that the number of post offices is actually increasing by 200. We can't possibly maintain the post offices just for these to be social meeting places. What's important is what we're doing with all of the people who are becoming eloquent in such processes. These people must be taken seriously and offered other opportunities in school and working life. The government is now fully relocating jobs from the east – very well – and I hope this will lead to smaller agglomerations and regions being given jobs that can technologically be located anywhere in the country. Ten jobs in Utkant-Norway mean much more than ten jobs in e.g. Trondheim. In fact, it has proved very profitable to place public jobs in the districts. I mention NSB's customer phone at Fauske, with up to 50 jobs, which is actually 4 million. kr cheaper per year year of equivalent centralisation in Oslo. Stable labour, cheap rentals and low sick leave make this job both profitable and attractive. This is an example of good district policy. I am very pleased that the Government will make a special effort towards small communities with great emigration. I hope these societies and everyone else notices the view of the Progress Party, that it is not an end in itself to maintaining the settlement in peripheral regions of the country, as they say. In that policy, everyone has to do their own thing – cost what it will cost. The word district has got a B stamp, which we must remove. The opportunities of the day and the future lie in the districts, especially in the coastal areas, and we who come from the districts must constantly have a strong focus on the possibilities and constantly market all the values found in the Utkant-Norway. What we need is greater commitment from our own business, we need better infrastructure, and we need governments to make even better use of the land. The last thing I think is that the Workers' Party, through the Regional and Regional Communications, gives good signals, and I can't see that any other parties or any district rebels have better solutions than the Workers' Party has on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e615	This year, District Norway is emphatically put on the poster: Berlevag with people's choirs and «High and Enthusiast», Vadsø with women's uprisings and «heavy and unspiritual», to put it mildly. Both parts reflect Norwegian reality. A good district policy is not aid, but a prerequisite for large parts of our export income and wealth, for housing patterns and equivalent living conditions throughout the country. It's not like the cities carry the districts on their backs. Large parts of District Norway have greater value creation and transfers to the big community than they get back. Fishing municipalities like to export fish for hundreds of thousands of dollars per year. per capita years. The fjords deliver other products, often based on power. Agriculture is still the bearer of many municipalities. Animal husbandry in Europe has demonstrated both our vulnerability and our dependence on producing food on nature’s premises. The attitude towards safe food and Norwegian food is strengthened. This is in stark contrast to the economic realities of the agricultural industry. In order to manage the natural resources and values created, we rely on people living in the districts and on infrastructure that ensures efficient transport to the markets. Why people live where they live depends to a large extent on the policies pursued. An MMI survey in the autumn of 1999 showed that 50 pst. the population could expect to settle in the districts. People's desires thus do not harmonize with centralising developments, and there is reason to be critical of parts of the transformation processes that are taking place, precisely because they seem to work like this. It creates fear, pessimism and rebellion, and many ask, what's the next thing that disappears? Think about the question instead: what's the next thing to do? Centralisation is not a law. Evolution doesn't have to go that way. The industrial revolution led many to move from rural areas to places where factories were traveled. Today, the IT revolution allows for decentralised solutions. Reports show that the relocation of services can bring benefits not only to the districts but also to the state. In order for the whole country to be able to participate in this development, the authorities need to secure broadband networks where market mechanisms do not provide it. Training requirements have increased. Decentralized education is important. The localisation of educational institutions is of great importance for where people become residents after completion of education. Young people set up networks where they come, and if the job opportunities are better than at home, the flight can be a fact. Nordland is one of the lowest education-level countries in the country. Only 16.2 pst. of the population over 16 years of age have higher education, while Troms is close to the national average of 21.2 pst. The research effort in Nordland is approx. 500 kroner per month. The population, while it in Troms is nine times as large. This shows the importance of a university environment for skills building and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e632	I have listened with interest to the debate, and I thought it was bold of the representative Lodve Solholm to claim in a line change with the representative Apelthun Sæle that the medicine given to the districts by a majority in Stortinget has only led the patient to a slow death. Then it's a little interesting with the medicine that the Progress Party prescribes, in fact no medicine, then at least the districts are facing rapid death. In today’s business a while ago, there was an article entitled ‘High and Subsidized’. I was skeptical at the same time I read it, but I must say that when I looked at the content, I was a little surprised. The journalist made a twist and said that we should just take it easy when it comes to the debate on district policy, because it says it's a choice of values. He referred to Norway and Sweden in the 1960s, when the Swedes centralised, hard and brutal. In Norway, we chose the opposite. It was a choice of values, and it's still a choice of values for the Christian People's Party. The result of the Swedish elections can easily be observed on a trip through northern Sweden. The mulberries are still attractive, but so much else is not to be found. In the Christian People's Party we do not want such conditions for North Norway. That's why it's still a value choice for us to be involved in maintaining the settlement in the districts. It is therefore not difficult to see from the debate that there is a clear distinction in this Chamber between the centre parties, SV and the Labour Party and the Right Party and the Progress Party. Although I have to say that developments within the Workers' Party in terms of the renewal policy implemented at a rapid pace may, to me, look like a hidden centralisation policy, there is still such a distinction in this Chamber. Then, of course, we can discuss the extent to which the districts are subsidized – in any case, we need to focus on where state investment has been located in the last few years. There is no doubt here that it is Oslo and Akershus who have supplied themselves roughly with the state investment cake. Then we wonder why people have moved on. Well, they've moved on because the workplaces in recent times have been created mainly by central government funds. For the Christian People's Party it is a choice of values to maintain the balance between districts and central districts, because we are interdependent. The case of North Sweden does not seem appealing to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e644	The representative Karin Andersen's response to where the fish was to be taken from requires a comment from me. When the representative claims that by taking the fish from the factory trawls, you would have enough fish, I just want to show that the factory trawls have 11-12 pst. of the total quantity. If you convert it into the quota of the year, it is likely to be approximately the same. three weeks of fishing for the coastal fleet, i.e. instead of stopping the fishing immediately after Easter, you would have been able to fish for approx. Three more weeks, so today it would have stopped anyway. Well, at least it tells us that it's not possible to do it that way. We also heard that the representative Torbjørn Andersen strongly asserted that the Progress Party has no district policy. When we conduct politics in Finnmark and confront prominent party people with exactly those things, the answer is: No, in Finnmark it should not be like that, you should have SND, and you should also have other arrangements. If you go a little closer to them in these questions, the answer is from a prominent advance party politician in Finnmark – a bit original, of course, but you could read in an Oslo newspaper: No, but our great father in the south doesn't want the Finnish marks to hurt. And you could read in Dagbladet that "our great father" in the south was Carl I. Hagen. On that basis, district policy in Finnmark is being debated by the Progress Party. I use to listen to those who have the experience of pointing out in what they say from the pulpit. Then I have to agree with the representative Pride-Nielsen in what she says, that as it approaches elections, there are many strange curvatures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e653	There may well be a lot of curvature as it approaches choices. I actually took the word to say something in relation to what Ivar Østberg said, but I might be able to take a little story about shrinkage too, since we're involved in district policy. The municipal fraction of the Arbeiderpartiet was on a holiday with Einar Johansen up at Kongsfjordfjellet in the municipality of Berlevåg and picked the molten and fished. Then I got the honorary assignment to call for a taxi when we were going to leave. I'm a man who sticks to the municipality I'm coming to, so I called Berlevåg, and it was 600 kroner more expensive than if I had called Båtsfjord. But that's the way it is -- it's district policy, and I like to support the municipality that I'm in. But that's not what I took the floor for. It was because Ivar Østberg actually took the debate in advance next Thursday and talked about the supervision and control department, TKT, and DBE, and used it as an argument for district policy and closures. Since I am responsible for this in the Workers' Party, and the Workers' Party is involved in the majority that is calling for closure, I would like to say that we are not doing so in a district policy context. We do that because of a new EEA Directive. And I also see Østberg pulling it quite far when he uses Kristiansand, Bergen, Ålesund, Tromsø and Bodø as examples of district policy. But I guess that's just the way it is. This EEA Directive obliges the Government to have an independent third party body, a technical control body, to carry out the control and certification of pressure-affected equipment. We've noticed that, and we agree that it can't be right for DBE to control itself. That is why we are creating a new body. TKT wanted to be this body, but they won't be. It is not district policy, it is actually an EEA directive that makes us – at least the majority – have to agree to it, and it also makes the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left use it as a district policy, but that is not what is meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e662	I'm going to try not to be unparliamentary, but I just have to say that there is an unlikely lot of strangeness from this pulpit in this debate. I'd like to use a stronger expression. It's written a little bit too. I see in the setting that the Right and Advance parts underline the great distance disadvantages of North Norway. This is an important thing, and we must have a policy that is based on infrastructure and reduced transport charges. The right-hand side has some evidence for what they say about the transport plan. I'll praise them for that. But one should think that the Progress Party, which has so unlikely much money, put this money in North Norway when they write this, but no. Look at the so-called other highways, where they have $8.8 billion in ten years, and $6.5 pst. of this to North Norway. They drive in the money centrally! If they ever get this money – but they don’t – they’re going to run into the investments centrally. It's in their whole mindset of the transport plan. So when they write these things here, and they say it from the pulpit, it has no connection with the policy they're running. The representative Torbjørn Andersen also says some other things from this pulpit: Tour-return Tromsø – and then it is to Oslo, I guess – costs the flight ticket over NOK 6000. And then he had a fee percentage and figured it out. It's going to be completely wrong! Because it is that when you have an average charge, the same is not the same on all trips. The fees are high on short trips, for example: Oslo–Kristiansand, and lower on Oslo–Tromsø. So you only pay one passenger fee – or a landing fee – no matter where you fly. Then the only fee that the Right and Advance Party will remove is the passenger fee. After all, the other charges are covered by the Swedish Aviation Agency – to operate that system. And if you then remove the passenger fee between Oslo and Tromsø, the flight ticket costs NOK 5 750 instead of NOK 6000. Is that what the big transport revolution is when it comes to removing charges? Flying Oslo–Kristiansand and Oslo–Bergen makes a much bigger impact. There it's going to mean a significant reduction in the price. There's actually no connection in what they're saying and what they're doing in practical politics. And it's not with others either. When the representative Meltveit Kleppa talks about distance jams and flight tariffs, why does the Centre Party not vote to reduce the fares on the short-haul network by 30 pst. on the next tender? It's going to cost the state 260 million. kr according to the department, while for example: removing the passenger charge will cost NOK 1,5 billion. And reducing the fares on the regional network would really mean something to District Norway. At that time it had become cheaper both in the West and in North Norway. In addition, representatives Sæle and Østberg talk a lot about the large investment in transport in central areas. Then I just want to say that the period when North Norway came out the worst when it came to road investment – I have gone back to 1986 – was the period when we had central government, and in the cooperation between the centre and the Workers' Party in the last round. Then North Norway was on the bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e675	Let me continue where the previous speaker stopped. I take the floor because I have now heard numerous articles that have referred to the so-called Aplan Viak report that was published last year. And after hearing the contributions of others, among others. The representative Jan Sahl, there's reason to ask what's really in it. Well, it's quite true that government investment in 1998-1999 had a very high concentration in the Eastern region – up to 79 pst., if I don't remember completely wrong. But what is this really? Well, it's the construction of the Rikshospitale and the final bill on the Gardermoen extension. Taking away the two things, the percentage is completely different, the percentage is actually no more than roughly normal, distributed on the other investments by the state, between the different parts of the country and the population base. Is it true that the representatives who have strongly criticised this believe that we should not have a main aerodrome near the capital, or that the Rikshospital should have been added to Finnmark? Isn't it actually so that this is a statistical deception? Because for the next year, when the state has assumed responsibility for the hospitals and hopefully a new hospital expansion is started in Trondheim, there will be an enormous excess of state investment in the Trondheims area – because we will have to build a large hospital there. Is it true, then, that Trondheim is the centralization ghost because there is a hospital renewal there? The investments covered by the Aplan Viak report are 10 pst. the investments made in that country. And there are investments related to exactly the two institutions that are mentioned, road development and a few institutions in research and development. The main investments made are made primarily by private individuals or by the oil industry, where there is also a large share of the State. It is also the case that many of the new expansion projects are located further north. There'll be more investment. It's going to be a different picture. It is not possible to build a district policy on a given distribution over a given year of this type. You have to have a broader and longer overview to use this as a basis for criticising. In fact, in the city from which I come, it is in several of the parties that have strongly criticised that large investments have been used by the state on the central lines, a strong expectation that it is the state that will take the bill, among other things. on the construction of urban railways, stronger efforts on public transport. This would mean that what I see as a central place in the country, namely Bergen, would have had a strong state investment in a magnitude that, if we took away the Rikshospitalet and the Gardermoen investments, would have contributed to the fact that there would have been a focus on investment in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e686	The representative Lund pointed out that it was not the big district policy in what I mentioned when it was about the closure of the TKT. He's right about that. What I was concerned about, and famously the Government for, was to bet on emigration. So I pointed to the fact that we actually a number of times make it the exact opposite. We're putting out government jobs. The Committee has, of course, noted that the Ministry did not find it appropriate to build up DBE to a Technical Supervision Organisation. But a joint committee says at the same time that you have noticed that you want this from the TKT side. I think it is something of the same when the representative Lund is holding the EEA Directive in front of him, as the director Knut Almestad of ESA said when it comes to the debate I had with the Minister of Finance about the passenger charge in North Norway. The director of Almestad then stated that he was tired of being made a scapegoat for the arrangements that the government put in place. Dialogue could solve that problem. That is why I also pointed out in my speech that I was pleased and hoped that the Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen spoke in Nordlys on 3 May, now was the policy for which the Government stood. There it was claimed that there was no doubt that the government wanted to maintain the exemption from the passenger fee in North Norway, despite the fact that he had said something else in response to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e694	Transportation is an important element of this debate, and then on behalf of SV I have a challenge for the so-called road parties. One problem on the roads in the districts is that there is a lot of heavy transport there. In the area of the country I come from, much of this transport is timber transport. Much of it should certainly have gone on the railway. The timber must reach the railway, but from there and out of the district it should have gone on the railway. This also applies elsewhere in the country. And then we see that in the area by region, the NSB loses the transport of timber. More and more timber cars come out on the road. One is that it becomes road-hazardous, the other is that it destroys the roads, and the third is that it also blows up the capacity, so it pushes forward new investments. What is the reason why the majority do not agree with SV in removing the road charge for such wagon loads? The road charge for combined transport has been removed, and that is good. But what is the reason for having a competitive disadvantage for the railways on these transports that it would have been so important to get out of the road? In my area there are also many narrow roads, and this makes these heavy transports a major road safety problem. It is very difficult to understand why parties who say they are both too good roads and against charges want this fee to be stopped. At least it is not very appropriate if you are concerned that transport should be carried out in an environmentally friendly and at the lowest possible traffic risk and that you can use the capacity you have in a much better way than today. In addition, it might also be interesting to hear how the other parties might expect to organise future aviation in Norway. When one sees that we are probably left with one company and that competition has not given us particularly cheap prices, but very expensive prices in the districts, could it not be that more people could agree that more of these routes should be put out for public purchases? There is certainly no realism in believing that the market should be able to provide a price for air transport in the districts that is such that ordinary people should be able to benefit from it. In that case, these transports will be so expensive that it is only an offer for those who are paid to travel, either by the Storting or by a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e705	Not quite unexpectedly, the end of this debate came to be a part of transport, and it reflects the problem in District Norway: there is a lack of transport. I must be allowed to stress that the Right has done the right thing by really betting on transportation throughout this period. What scares me is the plans for the next period, where you seem to adapt to a center that won't pay for transportation. That there has been an overinvestment in the Oslo area in relation to what has happened in the districts, there can be no doubt about it. When one sees that in the East one threatens to blow up the toll stations in the air because it costs 15 kroner to pass with a private car and 30 kroner with a payload, and knows that it costs 1 300 kroner to get the payload through the Spring Tunnel, when we know that only on the route between Bergen and Stavanger, i.e. in my region, there are seven payment points for the cargo, which have to pass two ferries and five toll stations, and two more are planned, it tells a little bit about how big a problem this actually is for District Norway. When it is outlined in the Western scenario that in inner fjords and valleys within, there must be regions of experience and old homes for people who speak new Norse dialects, because these are areas that are so nutrient-poor that they cannot invest in sufficient infrastructure themselves, and the state will not do so, I will be aware of developments in the future. When I see that one sees that the maritime competence environments in the North West will collapse, and that the maritime environments in South West Norway will be able to cope with the transition, it tells something about a managed closure of the district's traditional business life, which seems frightening to us who come from the districts, and who are happy in these districts and who would like to have a continued settlement there. I also see in the plans for maintaining the low population areas, that there should be sufficient rights transfers to the old to keep walking hospitals with public jobs, and there is also a kind of rural development that seems a little daunting. But the government has promised to move out state jobs. I hope that they will stand by it, because it is clear that government jobs located in regions of competence will ease the pressure in the east, and it will provide stable jobs in the districts. That's what the districts need.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e714	I was contacted by the representative Erna Solberg who made me feel the need for just a little clarification. I don't think we're that very disagreed, because my point was first and foremost to point out that when you talk about a subsidized District Norway, you also have to look at where the state investment has gone in the last few years, and where they are going to go in the future. I'm very happy that we've got a new main airfield that works very well, and I'm happy for the Rikshospitalet. But we have to take this into account in the debate we are facing, and then we have to stand together to kill the myth that District Norway is so heavily subsidized. I remember the big investments we're facing. In the case of IT-Fornebu, in the case of clearing in Bjørvika, in the case of new opera, there are double tracks in both directions for the railway around Oslo, in the case of Eastfold Packages 1 and 2 and in the case of E18. There may even be a new six-field access to Oslo. All of this is necessary. I believe that it must help to balance the debate on districts and central struts. Then you might be willing to put away a little bit of the thought about the subsidization that to some extent compensates for the disadvantages it is with the long country we have, with great distances to the markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e721	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding in the lines between the Council of State and me. This applies to the relocation of state workplaces. It is not that the center party wants new layouts. We know that we ourselves were involved and let the basis for excellent distributions, which the Council of State now has the opportunity to follow up. I understand Eirin Fallet so she thinks that e.g. The report «Decentralisation and ICT» was in the department drawers while Odd Roger Enoksen was the State Council. It's completely wrong. It came when he went off. That was the basis for not being able to follow it up. We record that there were between 1 000 and 1500 jobs – there were even more, but for the first time between 1 000 and 1 500 jobs – that could be moved out in a year, so that the Labour Party had all the opportunities. There are many who are engaged in the relocation of state workplaces. Last Friday, the Landssaman Conference for the New Norse Communes had its county council, and they asked that some of these workplaces be placed in their municipalities to strengthen them when it comes to the lopsided relationship that is currently in the public between bookkeeping and newfoundism. Then ask the representative Erna Solberg what is actually in the Aplan Viak report. It seems to me that Right thinks this was a report that went over a year. It was actually a report that lasted ten years. It is a report that clearly shows that, when large investments are made in the most central areas of the east, it should be possible to turn the investments into districts again. District policy is not aid. Local communities along the coast and inland make difficult contributions to the big community, because they last for land, forest, sea, water, etc. It seems to me as if St.meld. No 34 too much on the part of the Labour Party is asking for an obligation course, when those of the district councils to which it is to focus, that is to say, these are the so-called small-scale social scandals. Half of the municipalities in this country had a decline in the population last year. I have a question to the Council of State: how many of these municipalities are going to be able to participate in the small community initiative? So the whole thing is a challenge for the Workers' Party: this evening, the Labour Party has the opportunity to contribute to ICT reaching beyond the most central areas, where the market does not reach, by voting for Proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox They are thus also able to distance themselves from the policy of the Progress Party in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e734	I record that the Central Party is often mentioned in the debate we have now had. I think that is good, and we are definitely going to give the other parties on the Stortinget a reason to mention the Center Party many times in debates on district policy. This is an extremely important area we are debating here, and it is striking, among other things. the lack of media interest in a debate that has a major impact on the development of District Norway in the future, at a time when we see that there is almost a storm coming from different parts of the country in relation to the developments that many people feel are experiencing, with a decline in the population, with the centralisation of power and capital increasingly – a development that makes many rural communities and many rural communities feel that they are being depleted. In fact, I believe that in some areas it should be possible for some of the parties involved in this debate to have common thoughts. It's a little encouraging to see that you spend time, among other things. to promote claims that are not in reality rooted – as when the representative Eirin Falledt claims that Enoxsen has left the report on decentralisation and ICT in the drawer. So that report was actually issued at the end of February in 2000, just two weeks before the government of Bondevik left, and before the government took over Stoltenberg. I don't have it lying in the drawer, I've never had it lying in the drawer. Among other things, I have this here today, and that report has been thoroughly studied, because I think it provides a good basis for the decentralisation of state jobs. And I am glad that the Council of State has signaled so clearly that she intends to follow up the work that was arranged for through that report. In 1998, the central government proposed the relocation of 60 jobs. It was the first proposal for relocation that came from the central government. It was voted down by the Labour Party and the Right in common. They said no to emigration, and they also used very strong words about the consequences of emigration, 'the forced movement of people' was used as a concept. On that basis, we chose a different approach to relocation, not the relocation of entire institutions, but the relocation of workplaces that would enable modern technology to decentralize workplaces. There I think there is a lot to pick up, and I am glad that the Council of State has said that the work that was started on our part should be followed up. So the Council of State says that this government has adopted rules for the location of state jobs. Yeah, I'm glad the government has adopted a kilo. the resolution on the location of state jobs. And I'm recording that the government has to put on a kilo of itself. the resolution to ensure that the decisions are followed up. But it's not right that this government has made that decision. And then I'm going to quote from the debate on 27 April 1999, where, as the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs, I said the following: «as a primary principle» shall «all new governmental tasks shall be located outside Oslo. Derogations from this principle shall be specifically justified. This is a very important measure that no one has previously proposed.» So it's not this government that has made those guidelines. It was adopted in 1999, and it was explained in my district policy statement in April 1999. [[The President clubs.]] And then, of course, the council will claim that there is now a kilo. [[The President Clubs Again]] Resolution...
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e752	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e755	Yeah, I'll register it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e760	The reason I took the floor was that Jan Sahl was guilty of two mistakes. First of all, it was not the line change with Anita Apelthun Seele, it was with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The second thing is – and it’s important – that if the patient is healthy, he doesn’t need medicine. And if one gives a patient who's healthy, medicine, he'll actually become dependent. That's what's clouded by our policies, because we think that emptying the districts of value creation through high taxes and taxes that are pulled into Oslo, and then being administered through bureaucrats, with what it costs, then being distributed back to the districts, that's giving medicine. Instead, the Progress Party says: Leave values where they are created! Let those who create the values out there make it possible to create new values and use the resources, and let the big community help and create infrastructure! Then you get a healthy patient who doesn't need medicine. And when we know that 60 pst. of the creation of value goes along our coast, excluding the oil industry, then I don't understand why we're going to use this form of politics. It is true that Einar Johansen pointed out that the Progress Party does not have a specific district policy. No, but we have a policy that is also adapted to the districts, because through our policies the districts will have the opportunity to flower and blossom. In this way, we can get up-to-date districts, so we can now provide the regional food and maybe the future food we see, the industry that's going to take over after the oil age, simply large-scale aquaculture, which can give us the value of maybe $250 billion a year. But if we don't put the ratio right now, we're destroying the possibility we have. And if we're going to hold on and deposit transfers – which is money created in the district – why can't they be left out there, so that the districts get the opportunity to flower and bring in skills and make it attractive to live and drive out there? It is clear that if we are to have a fisheries policy that the SV stands for, then we are to scrape it off. After all, Johansen is right that SV shows that they are not aware of this and that they are not aware of where to take the resources from. Then I will finally take from the representative Meltveit Kleppa the joy that the Labour Party can distance itself from the Progress Party by voting in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox They can't do it, because the Progress Party is going to do it itself, so it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e773	To answer the representative, Meltveit Kleppa, what we're doing in the small-scale community effort, it's about the municipalities or communities that are struggling with large relocations, that are far from the center. We will have to come back more specifically to what it is, and what arrangements the bet will have, but I am pleased that a majority in the European Parliament is supporting that policy. Then I record that both the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the representative here, Enoksen, have quite strong results and words in relation to the Labour Party's district policy. I still have to say that I think there is a somewhat strange debate, especially considering that it might be the parties closest to each other in district policy. Now leave it. But when this is said that this government had to have a kgl. Thus, the resolution to adopt new guidelines on state localisation policy for action is wrong. We thought it was right to have one kgl. resolution on it because we actually mean something about it – not just to adopt it, but also to move things out. But that's not how we had to have it to do with it. No, it's just to go in and study the results achieved after just over a year, that's 200 out of jobs. We have set up a separate group to follow up the report entitled ‘Decentralisation and ICT’, which has been discussed by many. There will be more results in the near future. But I'm not too busy making more plans or more investigations. That's not what we need more of! What we need is to get these workplaces out. Then we don't need any more plans. Then we need to decide to move more concretely out, and it seems to this government to propose in the near future – more than the 200 we have already moved. Then I also have to say – I had to comment on it in my first post: in my first post, the representative Meltveit Kleppa said something like that the Workers' Party is doing a conscious centralization, and that the central government was able to stop the movement flow – a bit freely quoted, and I have to make a reservation that I am quoting quite correctly, but that was at least how I heard it. I have not thought there has been any point in polishing against it, but it is not such that the moving current stopped during the center management. It actually moved out more than the number that moved in, for example. This just shows that we're struggling with pretty big centralization tendencies in our society. I feel that the message and the setting based on the majority here in the Chamber are contributions to trying to do something about what we see around us. None of us can decide where people are going to live, but we can get even better at putting things right. But then it's artificial when the Central Party from this pulpit is still trying to make it as a contrast to having to take care of the small district municipalities outside and also to bet on towns or regions. We are totally dependent on having strong regions in the view of the Labour Party, if we are to manage to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, for today's young women and men require more than just jobs to decide where to live. Then it is also a recognition that not all small municipalities are able to offer everything that young people today require, and then we must have strong regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e790	The centre control braked the moving current. I have not used the word stop, I have used the word brake relative to that number tell. When we in the Center Party want a plan for the relocation of jobs, it's because there are municipalities and communities in this country who want to be prepared over time. Governments have now given the county a more important role as a development actor in industrial development. Both from the county and from the SND side, there is a need for the same planning. That's our starting point -- not to troubleshoot things, but actually to get a little more overview of what jobs can be moved out, and not least to prepare the jobs that are involved here. Then I record that the Council of State takes the Nations as a witness of truth for what I have said, and trusts more in the nations than in what I have said here today and write in the setting. It may be her choice, but let me draw another line: From the centre party's side, the point is both – and, not only a one-sided bet on rural towns, which the entire committee stands to gather about stretching below is necessary, but also a bet on the district councils of this country, and not only on a few, as I now understand that this small-scale effort will involve, but actually it will give them in this country who want to preserve their welfare, their jobs and their population, new opportunities. And then there is a need for both a boat – and, both towns and cities, for bets on the other municipalities. Unfortunately, there is a distinction between the Workers' Party, which points out that they want to keep the main features of the construction pattern and work for equal living conditions, and the Center Party, which seemed to the Labour Party to follow this far too little up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e800	Some mention has been made of fisheries and this of the fact that the factory trawls are to be bent and the quotas are to be transferred to jacks. That's not how the system works. The factory trawls have a share of the trawl quota, and if the factory trawls are bent, it becomes the other trawls that get that share. If you're going to change this whole system, it's a longer process, and it's not the ones that get that fish in the first place. There is a comprehensive procedure that needs to be put into effect, and it has to be accepted by both organisations and politicians, so that issue has not been resolved with a pen stroke. We've got a cod stop. We have many boats ashore because there has been too much availability and too effective fleet. What surprises me is that the Minister for Fisheries has stopped the so-called youth fishing. What signals does it give to young people in the districts, who had the opportunity to participate in fishing and earn a few dollars when they had a summer vacation? At the same time, we experience that tourists fish 17 000 tonnes of fish that they fillet and take out of the country. It hasn't stopped. I have to say a few words in the debate that the districts are getting transfers. Transfers from who? The workplaces and values are created in the districts. Hydropower and electricity, for example, that we have in the bulbs, do not come from Oslo, it comes from the districts. We have to get rid of the myth that it is the districts that are the problem. Without the districts, the city dies – it's that simple. It's no advantage for either the one party or the big community to bring together people in Oslo and densely built struts and create even more pressure. I have to say a few words about the shipping industry, which is also district-based, and which provides jobs in pig-grown strips, where the crews come from. We have had 30 bankruptcies last year in the shipping industry because of laws, regulations and charges that make it impossible to obtain profitable operations, and we get foreign ships sailing on the Norwegian coast between ports. Isn't it time to make a decision that we should have Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e811	It's probably at this point that no one in here is getting convinced about who is doing the most for the districts, so I think we might now be able to approach a rounding of the debate. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa had a sincere wish that the Workers' Party would support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox This should be a kind of proof that the Labour Party and the Progress Party are not united in the area of regional policy. I think the case rapporteur has not followed closely in the hour if she has not come to realize that there is a great difference in the district policy of the Progress Party, which they themselves define as no policy, and the Labour Party stands for. But at the end of this debate, I can welcome the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and satisfy her wish that the Labour Party too will support proposal No. 1, so then it's actually the whole committee that does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e818	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e821	There's something almost schizophrenic about the Center Party. It is perfectly obvious to everyone that the Centre Party is a partner of the Workers' Party. I can't understand why they're taking away from their own policies. When the Central Party points out that there was less emigration from the districts of the time Bondevik was in government, it was because the center was kept in the ears of responsible people. The centre party lay on its stomach and prayed to the Workers' Party all the time, and when they agreed to the proposal and the engagement was concluded, it was not long before we saw the true face. I actually think the Center Party should admit it: the Center Party is a party that belongs to the Workers' Party. They'll just have to deal with that. That's what everybody else sees. So I don't understand that the Center Party itself can't admit it as the rest of the Stortinget sees. They've married the Workers' Party, and I haven't seen any divorce applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e826	Just a short closing comment from my page to Inger Stolt-Nielsen. It is quite right that in this matter of regional and regional policy, the Central Party is in the hands of the Christian People's Party, SV and the Labour Party to keep up with the main features of the construction pattern and work for equivalent living conditions in the districts. And so it's also so that when we challenge the Labour Party today, it's because these three parties think there's no match between what the Labour Party says they will do, and the missing will they show in this message to take the districts and the value creation that is happening, seriously. I found it clear to the representative Erna Solberg from the Right when, at the beginning of her speech, she explained the problems she had in getting what the Labour Party wanted in district policy, in addition to all the words that were used. And then it's also that the Center Party is obviously not as happy with everything we got in government. We understand that even other parties may have problems in the relationship between word and action. I would like to stress that today's case is primarily about future districts. It's not what the Center Party or other party, including the Labour Party, has done before, but that's what we want to do in the future. I now register with the greatest joy that a collective committee asked the Government to go through this to see what can be done to secure ICT even in the areas where the market today does not reach. There are really new opportunities for many workplaces in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e835	First of all, I should like to make a little comment on fisheries policy. That's a problem when 80 pst. of the cod taken with trawls and trawls is less than two and a half kilograms. When we also know that the factory jet fleet has no positive features for the coast, it's important to build it down. But at the same time, we also need to reduce the allowances for the trawler fleet, and what is important there as a long-term strategy – nothing is happening from day to day – is that the concessions to those who are going to deliver to the factory are being properly followed up, and that has not happened. And there's too much of the freezer beam that delivers on land directly to export, without it going to processing. So, in a long-term fisheries policy strategy, it is important to build down the trawler fleet and transfer it to the coastal fishing fleet. Then I have asked some questions that I have not received an answer to, and I will probably not get that now either, but I will repeat a few of them. Since the Progress Party believes that NOK 6000 is too expensive for a trip/return ticket Oslo – Tromsø, do they believe that SEK 5 750 is a reasonable price, since the only change they will make is to remove the passenger fee, which gives a discount of NOK 250 if the companies reduce the price, but is it also a condition? Or can they go in for public purchases on the main route network, where we can politically set prices, and then we get a tender, and those who make the best offer get it? Why couldn't the centre parties, who are also concerned about this with air fares – and we know that those who have the most expensive prices, are the ones who have to combine flight on the short-haul network and the main route network – have supported us when we proposed 30 pst. reduction in the price of the next tender? For that we can politically determine, and that means that the tender is getting higher, as I said, approx. 255 million. kr per year, according to the Ministry, if you want to have a district-friendly transport policy. Why is it that today, when you are so concerned with the investment on the road, it was during the central government that North Norway was decidated at the bottom when it came to road investment in recent times? The investments have never been so low. Why didn't you do anything when you were in government? Neither the Right nor the Advance Party helped, it is to be admitted, nor the Workers' Party later. But the worst period in the history of that part of the country in terms of roadside investment was during the central government. I don't mention the railway side, because there they're almost zero anyway. But it's possible it's hard to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e842	I'm going to be pretty short. But first to Inge Myrvoll: The representative Inge Myrvoll knows the answer to that question. The centre lots and SV worked hard on the flight prices associated with the national transport plan. But it doesn't help much to be in a minority, then we don't get that far. The strategy was to go along with an overall committee on a comment that meant that we're going down with the prices of the regional grid. And as far as I can see, the Minister for Transport also said in an article that he had understood it. And then just briefly to Lodve Solholm and his comment on the District Policy of the Advance Party. It's quite right that 60 pst. the value creation takes place in the districts, and it is precisely because of the regional policy that has been pursued. But the Medicine of the Advance Party is taking away all the district support, and then the question is, is there still going to be 60 pst. valuation in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e849	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e863	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Cross-Professional People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e872	Today, the Stortinget is invited to develop the policy of ownership management of Posten Norway BA for the next few years. The communication we are discussing today aims to inform about the decisions taken or taken during the previous programming period and about the key challenges and plans for the coming years. As owners, there are many things we should be concerned about, without going into the day-to-day operation of the company, which is today the task of the board and the group management. Our task as owners is to outsource the course we believe is right for the Post in the coming years. As owners, we also have to make some demands on the company in relation to what we expect from, for example. returns and dividends, including: compliance with the social obligations imposed on the item in a good way. We must demand that the company be able to provide postal services in line with the needs of individual customer groups and at competitive prices. At the same time, it is expected that the company will be able to absorb the impact of the major changes that are taking place and that the Post will be an attractive and good job. We expect the company to be able to use the technology to maintain or establish decentralised activities. The post has worn out financially in recent years. Employment and efficiency have been areas where the company has had some serious problems. As a result, a new group structure was introduced in 2000, while major changes to the dispatch network, the sorting structure and the administrative functions were adopted. These interventions aim to contribute to the efficiency of operations and to improve customer service and accessibility. Hopefully, this will also lead to significant cost reductions. A comprehensive committee is in favour of these conversions and will pay particular attention to the fact that it will now be easier to quantify and measure results, while improving the ability of the Post to meet the requirements of the customer. During the transition period – until 2005 – the Item will undergo some major changes, not least on the staff page. Today, the staff costs of the company amount to a total of 65 pst. of the operating costs. Overall, staff reductions are planned at about 5,000 yearly jobs, or nearly 6,000 jobs. This is, of course, a heavy burden for the employees of the company, as it is no longer possible to offer another job in the Post. The management and employees of the company have so far found satisfactory solutions for the downsizing, and I think it is right to point out the employees' efforts and attitudes in the downsizing and reorganization of the Post. Here, a tough process has become as smooth as possible because employees and management have cooperated well. A majority – without the Right and Advance Party – want to point out the good cooperation that the Post and HR have had through conversion agreements, and we assume that this will continue. When we decided a few days ago to change some of the special laws of the BA companies, the same majority of us felt that the waiting and priority arrangements for new jobs in the state should only be completed after the end of the transition period, in 2005. Here again, the Right Party and the Advance Party showed that they are not involved in the cooperation between employees and employers. The parties had agreed to wait until 2005 before removing the waiting and priority scheme, while the Right and Advance Party wanted to remove the scheme from today. It is very important for the majority of the Committee that employees who are undergoing major changes today have a clean and, not least, secure framework to deal with in the future. When the restructuring of the Post started, scepticism was expressed from several teams to how the service offered to customers would develop, not least in relation to the closure of post offices and the introduction of country mail. In retrospect, we can see that most users of postal services believe that they have received a service that meets the service requirements they impose on the Post Office. When the Post today announces a review of the country postal service, it is very important that any conversion of the service does not result in users getting a worse offer than they have today. With regard to the Post dispatch network, some major changes have been made in the years to come. The number of postal sites will increase by more than 200, while many of the Post Office’s self-propelled postal sites will be converted into postal sites operated by collaborators, such as: Post in Store or Post in Public Service Office. In this context, it is important for the Committee to stress that no postal site is required until another offer is established in the area. There must be a conversion that will increase the service provision to customers in terms of longer opening hours and availability. It is also very important that the new postal points comply with the concession, so that customers will be offered the basic services, wherever they live in the country. The item has had difficulties in complying with the concession requirement for the carrying-over of A item. For the first time, the Post has now clearly completed the delivery requirement of 85 pst. This shows that the development is moving in the right direction and that the Post is working to improve the quality of the delivery of A-post. Of course, it is natural for a company to strive to provide its customers with the best possible service, and we expect nothing but the Post to continue to improve their services. I think it's a little strange that the center parties here choose to tighten the requirements for carrying out the A-mail, against the previously stated requirement of 93 pst. As far as I know, former Minister of Transport Dag Jostein Fjærvoll reduced the claim against the Post, on the grounds that a carry-over percentage of 93 was totally unrealistic for the company to achieve. I don't know what has changed so radically now, but I might get an answer from the central parties during the debate. A large part of the Post is about providing basic postal services and basic banking services to customers throughout the country. These are currently concessional areas and are considered to meet the minimum required minimum requirements for the provision and service of postal services. In the future, if the Post is to meet the requirements we impose on the company by concession, the company must have a strong economic backbone. The company itself has made significant efforts to reduce its costs and increase its revenues through the conversion and restructuring of the group. At the same time, however, it is important that the State, through State purchases of postal services, pays the additional costs of the concession obligations on the company. An overall committee would point out that the current system of state purchases of postal services does not work satisfactorily for the Post Office. We see it as important to establish a model that gives the Post more predictability in relation to the government's purchase of services. The Committee would therefore ask the Government to return to the Stortinget at a later date. In order for the Post to compete in a tough market, strategic investments and purchases are likely to be necessary for the Post to survive as a postal company. Here, the State that owns a responsibility for the company having the financial framework for the Post to continue to be a central player in the market. A majority – again without the Right and the Advance Party – sees it as natural that any new injection of equity will be submitted to the Stortinget. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the Posten's governance and challenges, with the exception of a few areas. In one area, the Committee is divided and the future organisation of the Post as a BA company or as a limited liability company. Here a minority, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, have indicated that they want Post Norge BA to be transformed into a limited liability company. The majority place great emphasis on the competitiveness and flexibility of the company. At the same time, the majority acknowledges that the Post performs very important social tasks that should be subject to political leadership. We believe that these conditions are safeguarded in the form that BA companies have today. We know that the Post itself has pointed out certain weaknesses in the specific laws that weaken the company's competitiveness and flexibility. We have already taken the consequences of this, as a few days ago we adopted changes to the specific laws, so that the Post can compete in the same way as other market players. The majority believe that the Post today has great freedom to develop its service provision and to choose the most effective means of control as long as the obligations and service requirements imposed on it are met. The majority therefore see no reason today to change the form of the company. The post has many challenges in the future, where the company will undergo major restructuring and extensive downsizing. This will require both management and employees, and I would like to point out that there is a great deal of respect for a company that has clear transitions with as much consensus as the Post has. If Posten manages the conversions and takes effect from them, the company should be able to become a leading player in the market. On this basis, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e916	The ownership message about the Post has received much less attention this time than before. This is mainly due to the fact that the major changes have already been adopted. The communication underpinning today's debate does not promote new proposals for major structural changes. The conversion to Post in Store, Post in Public Service Office and Postal Trade has been adopted and is about to be launched. The conversion shall result in an increase of the number of postal points by close to 200. The objective of postal policy is clear. This call for proposals is an ‘own-initiative report’ and does not contain significant discussions on regulatory issues. Nevertheless, I am pleased that a majority agree that a cross-border distribution of postal items at a reasonable price and of good quality is to be ensured through the requirements laid down in the Post Convention, through the purchase of postal services by the State and through the ownership of the State in Post Norway BA. For the Christian People's Party, it has been a basic premise in the conversion that regular post offices are not closed until an equivalent service offer is established in the area. The post has announced that during the first half of 2001, they will assess the country postal service in relation to the establishment of Post in Butikk. Int. S. No 248 for 1999-2000, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Left said: ‘With the extensive conversions that have been proposed and now proposed, the country postal service will be essential for the service that the Post will provide to customers. The majority assume that the country postal service will be carried forward with the same service and quality level.’ I'm glad that a majority decides that this is still on the ground, and that it is important to maintain a service offer that contains basic services for all, regardless of geographic circumstances. I am pleased that a majority emphasise that the conversion process should be carried out without prejudice to the quality of the postal services and in such a way that motivation and service provision for employees are maintained. It is therefore alarming with the high level of sick leave and the strong increase in the number of unemployees with which the Post is struggling. It is important, above all for the sake of employees, that the turnaround of these developments is a high priority. For most customers, it is essential that the Post performs its core tasks and discharges its concession obligations. At the same time, there is a potential for income in other tasks and savings in distinguishing different services. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority, continues to state that if important basic services are proposed, a case will be brought before the Storting. The company shall have the freedom to develop new services and to select effective means of control as long as it performs the tasks assigned to it and meets the service requirements. In the Ministry's representation of what one is engaged in in the management of the Post, the first point is that the company must give the State the greatest possible value over time. Point 2 is that the company fulfils the obligations imposed on society in the best possible and cost-effective way. I hope this is not an expression of the prioritisation of value creation in the face of the obligations imposed on society. I also hope that one has a broad perspective on value creation beyond the return on capital. The item shall be primarily a service enterprise and part of the infrastructure, not a company which shall itself give a return to the State as its owner. The Ministry points to three challenges for the Post Office. It is about reducing operating costs, maintaining focus on quality and service and improving financial management. The Ministry also states in the notification: «Should the Post survive in competition with other national and international players in the market, quality and compliance with customer requirements are crucial.» This is very important and is, of course, fully supported by the Christian People's Party. This is also underlined by the Ministry, which says: ‘However, the entry needs to increase the level of service in order to be better rusted in future competition.’ I am pleased that a majority insists on the requirement to distribute priority correspondence and light goods six days a week to all the households of the country, unless exceptional or special geographical conditions warrant otherwise. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress this demand. When this is said, I would also like to make it clear that there are many positive feedback from customers who are very satisfied with the postal service now. It's also important to include. The size has lowered the concession requirement to how much of the A-post is due the next day. The post office was able in the fourth quarter, as we just heard, to meet the new goal. However, it is far from the old goal of 93 pst. shall be at the next day. The fact that one has now reached the new concession requirement does not mean that one should not reach a higher goal. The fact that one had to reduce the target in 1998 and that it was done does not mean that it should also be a target in the future for all years. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, together with a majority in the Committee, believes that even if one has reached this new concession requirement, it does not mean that one should not reach a higher goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e961	The configuration of the Transport Committee, Innst. S. No 275 for 2000–2001 linked to St.meld. No 26 for 2000–2001, on the activity of Posten Norway BA, shows that there is indeed a fairly high degree of consensus on the objective of a nationwide delivery of postal items at a reasonable price and at a good quality. It's actually so that all the parties agree that that's the goal, and that's good. Furthermore, there is agreement that this should be ensured through the requirements set out in the concession and through State purchases of postal services. In this way, the very foundation is very much in agreement within the Committee. I want to point out some areas where the Right disagrees with the majority. Let me first say a few words about the restructuring related to the postal network, and that they want to give priority to public service offices rather than contract post offices. We disagree with that, and the reason for this is simply that we believe that opening hours for postal services are very important from the consumer's point of view. We are afraid that when this is added to a public service office in the municipality, it will develop over time an opening time for this service office that is like for other public services, i.e. an opening time which is not appropriate for consumers. It may be that the intentions are different, but all experience shows that it's in the direction that it goes. Then it'll be summer time. 15, and then there will be a little longer opening time in winter. This means that consumers generally have little access to these services. I would like to come back again if it turns out that my claims, my signals, my intentions or my thoughts over time are wrong. In general, as I said at the outset, there is quite a consensus on the objectives, but it may not be surprising that there is one area where we disagree in principle. It concerns whether state ownership itself is a prerequisite for such a goal achievement, as I mentioned at the outset. Right means no, it's not through a 100 pst. state ownership ensures good postal services but through strict concessional conditions and system control. Nor does state ownership itself ensure good quality of postal services through efficient use of resources. Experiences don't suggest that. In this context, I would like to point out something that two representatives who have spoken before me have mentioned, namely this with the service requirement related to the A-mail delivery in Norway. It is true that the targets were met in the fourth quarter of 2000, and that is good. But anyone who has been on the Committee on Transport for some years knows that there has been an eternal battle, and that there is a lack of achievement in this regard. It may well be in the system that when the term ‘93 pst.’ was used, a wrong measurement parameter was chosen. But the main point is that, of course, you should point out where the faults in the system were, and not reduce the requirement, because of course it gives the consumer the impression that one must have reduced the demand for the postal services. And I still think, as the representative Kofoed-Larsen also said, that even if you have now achieved this goal, it must always be that you are pursuing new goals here, so that you can possibly get as good a postal service as possible. This shows that ownership itself is not an absolute prerequisite for achieving a good postal service. This is also underlined in the Innst. S. No 108 for 1999-2000 from the Control and Constitutional Committee, where the Committee, inter alia: writes the following: ‘The Committee notes that the Ministry of Transport, after approx. 7 years of experience in the grant scheme have not yet established follow-up criteria and a satisfactory feedback system for results. As a consequence, the Ministry has not been able to verify the results obtained through the grant and whether these are in line with the Storting assumptions. Nor has the Ministry been able to determine whether the service level of the unprofitable postal network is at the same level as before the restructuring of the postal network.» The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs here points out — of course, there have been improvements along the way, let me stress it — that state ownership really does not guarantee efficient use of resources. It is, as I said in the introduction, primarily through concession rules and system checks that the state can best influence coverage as a service goal – not through ownership alone. Let me then spend a few minutes on the law-enforcement model. After all, I have been on the Transport Committee for some years and have participated in these debates on how the Post Office governance should be. From the very first moment, the Right warned against the Special Law Model. We wanted an AS model for the company in many ways, because it was already obvious several years ago that the Post was facing significant challenges in the future. We meant that time and we still believe that the very best way to meet the challenges is to turn the Post into an AS, not because the two letters, AS, mean so much, but precisely because it gives the board the freedom to be active in a market that is constantly changing at a great pace. We thought it would be best for consumers, the best for the Norwegian postal system. And I mean in many ways to be able to say that the afterlife has shown that we were right. It should have been done, it should have been done before, and at least it should have been done now. Then we see that the majority still believe that the special-law company is a suitable model. I think it's a little bit cautious, because when you have a government that says that here we want an AS model that will better enable us to solve the problems, you should have got it. It is also such that a so-called conversion unit should be set up within Posten BA, and I must be allowed to say that is positive. And that's not the way the rapporteur started, that the right in many ways has some negative attitude towards employment related to this. No, this is once again also based on experience. I've had some experience with conversion units from work on the Transport Committee, and they haven't always been as good. In this regard, let me remind you that with regard to the current migration problems in the Post Office, which was dealt with in 1996–97, we allocated NOK 1.5 billion in this house to that conversion, just about SEK 1.1 billion related to the personnel part and SEK 400 million. kr related to other conditions. That's a lot of money. And I believe that when there is today a public employment service that has a significant competence in this area, it may seem a little unnecessary to create a new unit of competence when that competence actually exists elsewhere. My starting point is that there will not be fewer employees in the public sector. I take up the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e988	Oddvard Nilsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e991	The development of postal systems is generally characterised by rapid technological development, changing customer requirements, increasing competition and increased internationalisation, where technological innovations are an important driver for the development of market and competition conditions. We see that electronic mail is now being used by more and more people. Developments are generally characterised by increasing competition and increased demands for speed and quality, which we in the Progress Party believe benefits users in terms of better and cheaper services. We are also concerned that the Post must have the freedom to develop its service provision and to choose the most efficient and appropriate means in individual cases, and to conclude different types of alliances and cooperation agreements. The Progress Party considers it important to enable the Post to meet the major challenges that the company faces in the years ahead. It is expected that competition from foreign players will increase and that the integration of the postal services market will continue internationally. Unable to compete on quality in central strata of the country and generate profits from this market, the Post will have implications for its ability to provide good services in districts. The challenge is not to provide postal services in key areas, where there is a commercial basis for this type of service, but to be able to provide services where there is no commercial basis. In order to master these challenges, it is important that the Post is organised in such a way that the board and administration have the widest possible scope for action, so that the management of the enterprise can quickly capture and implement the measures necessary to maintain the competitiveness of the enterprise on a continuous basis. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to convert the Item from management to AS. The greatest difference between the type of company of the Post and a limited liability company relates to the personnel side and, in particular, to the liability of the Post to the State Contracting Authority. The post is a very staff-intensive company, where approx. 65 pst. the costs incurred are staff costs. It is important that the Post focuses on achieving the quality objectives set for the company. It is not acceptable that the Post as a State monopoly should be able to redefine the quality objectives when the company does not meet the quality objectives set by the Stortinget. It is not acceptable that the Item reduces the level of service according to the desire to reduce its obligations towards customers. The Progress Party does not consider it a task for Stortinget to decide on the number of points of dispatch. This is a task which the Management Board must decide on in the context of concessional, quality and service objectives and business assessments. The progress is positive that stores and service stations take over as dispatch points instead of offices operated by the Post itself. Such conversion will in many places lead to the availability of postal services in several places and with longer opening hours, leading to better postal services. The Progress Party believes that the Posten organised as AS will have good opportunities to compete in an ever-changing market. We therefore hope that Stortinget will give the company that freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1006	The entry Norge BA has a very important role in society, and it is of great value that the post fulfills the societal tasks in the future. At the same time, the Post shall operate in a cost-effective manner. The item has an independent responsibility for rational, cost-effective and forward-looking operations. But the state that owns and buys postal services also has a responsibility to ensure that the Post has finances so that the societal tasks can be carried out in a satisfactory way. I have noticed that the Board of Directors of the Post through the Section 10 plan has stated that they want the company form for Posten to be reviewed. The centre party is satisfied with the department's assessment that no changes should be made to the Posten association form. There shall still be a special-law company with limited liability. A number of the Committee on Transport have, in several respects, previously stressed that there should be a nationwide provision of postal services at reasonable prices and of good quality. Good service provision and high quality remain in the Committee's comments. The entry's concession shows what the basic services are – i.e. the minimum level of services to be provided. The Section 10 message states that the Post regards the single-use portfolio as a disadvantage. I am pleased that the whole committee is behind the comment that it is not appropriate to change this. I am very pleased that a group of committee lines under the requirement of the concession on the assignment of priority letter mail and light goods to all households throughout the country six days a week. Only exceptional circumstances or particular geographical conditions shall be able to prevent this. In other words, the exceptions must be very, very few. As a newist, I would like to point out that the entire committee – with the exception of the Progress Party – says that they have noticed that the Ministry of Culture has called on the Post to comply as far as possible, even if the Post is currently not subject to a target law. I am pleased that the Government has announced that a big message about target use in public services will be provided. When, in 2000, the Stortinget adopted a new form of organisation, where an important point was that the Post should come better from the customers to the meeting at the same time as the operation should be more efficient, it was a clear commitment from the Transport Committee that the service provision and service should be at least as good as before. By transferring from largely self-employed post offices to post offices driven by co-operative partners, a positive impact has been achieved in several areas. There have been a total of more postal sites and thus easier access to postal services, and many have access to postal sites with longer opening hours than before. At the same time, in the conversion to postal stations driven by partner partners, there are many signals that the service provision after the conversion is not the same as before. There is little help if the opening hours of the mail sites are longer than before, if the customers are not able to perform the services they need. In answer to a written question from me, the department has, for example, explained that the postal and telecommunications authorities have found that they could grant exemptions from the concession requirements, so that there is no requirement for the submission of international packages to be offered at all contract post offices, but that the Post should offer the service there – as the reply states – ‘the local conditions so warrant’. The explanation of this almost general exception is explained that they must have knowledge of customs regulations and import rules at the contract post offices. They vary from country to country and require regular updates. In my view, training should be provided so that the contract post offices can provide the services which are basic services after the concession. Rightly, in all municipalities there should be at least one place where this service becomes available, but if this service is removed from several parts of the municipality that had previously been offered, the post has not met the requirements that the committee has laid down several times – at least as well as service availability and service as before. Governments should take seriously the requirements of the Committee on several occasions, and the sympathies to ensure that we do not have a hollowing-out of the concession requirements. From a number of activities in the districts, there has also been a signal that, when converted to a contract post office, the Post has made its service offer to the enterprises worse. Your mail does not provide the same service at all locations for sending and receiving small packets. Several companies depend on fast delivery and dispatch to be competitive. I know that more companies look at ways other than using the Post Office's services to resolve the transport needs. I expect that the Post is interested in keeping the most possible of their customers. It is therefore necessary for the Post to be active in adapting service provision to business in the communities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1027	Give us our daily mail every day, at least on weekdays! There are great expectations about service from the Post. Now there are only 1,235 households in Norway who do not receive the post six days a week — that is, 0.7 per million. In other contexts, there's a high prom, but it's important that that bit becomes the lowest possible, and that there's a strict interpretation of these exceptions. If you're a newspaper subscriber, it's not a good thing to get old newspapers. But in the last few years, I have realized very little about the complaint that the Post has collected mailboxes in stands, as long as it was in the nearby neighborhood. People must then be able to wear shoes when they are going to pick up the mail. That is why I do not understand that the Post Office is going to let this rest, because it must be effective. When I saw the mailman before, he came by car, ran across the street, delivered mail and ran back to the car. Now he can stop at the stand, distribute mail to a number of households and then drive on. It has to be much more rational. It'll be a little bit of howling if you do it, but I think it's absolutely necessary. We see that new technology and competition change the service form. It gets longer and longer between every time we go to a bar to get services. There have been a few years since big business representatives were shot in this room about post office post office, barrier barriers, and went to defeat. I thought I'd take some quotes from a former colleague who's in the diplomatic lodge, and who's now chairman of the Post Office, but I got it too busy – I didn't find them. No, it might be too malicious. We recognize that the service can be improved, perhaps in other forms of despatch. However, this means that we set quality standards, which means that we do not receive a reduced service. Unfortunately, there has been a slowness in developing and putting into life a new organization. When I started to masturbate about public service offices, Totland was the minister. After that, I have taken it up with half a dozen others, before the Poster now says that this is a main strategy – and it is legally late. What is broken is that the development of public service offices that could have come much earlier should have come at the same time as the reorganisation of the postal service. It would have been much easier to get the restructuring in there. I think it might be a good service provided we get a more open public sector that doesn't necessarily close 'kl. 15». That's where I agree with the committee leader. I think that if you add the services to public service offices, you get a broader, better postal service than when you add them to gas stations. I believe in a way that having people who can provide all the same postal services that you would get in a post office is an important part of it. I think the service office could be a better strategy, but we should have them in place a long time ago. I am not impressed by what the Post says about the relocation of the jobs, nor about the list of where they have centralised activities outside Oslo. The north of the Salt Mountain is the list empty. Workplaces are allocated most to relatively large cities relatively far south. That's why I'm a little surprised that the rest of the committee is very satisfied – even the Center Party. I'm a little skeptical about the new letter center to be built in Oslo. What we have is not sufficiently dimensioned for the letter volume that is now being handled. At the same time, it is said that there will be a significant drop in volume in the future and that the Post Office will have a reduced share by increasing competition. You probably get a reduction in the area of exclusive rights. That's why we're questioning this investment. I am also a little surprised that the parties in the committee, all except SV, dare to conclude that built-in strips often come out best in terms of reliability of delivery. At least based on the reports I've seen, it's a doubtful conclusion. I was very surprised at the majority of the committee talking about this with 93 pst. Yes, in some areas I know that it is possible to reach 93 pst. But based on what I know about communications in this country and the production of mail, I never think it's possible to reach 93 pst. It's amazing that those who lowered the list by sea in the center government, are suddenly going to lift it up again now that we've got a new government. If I know the communications and reliability there right, 93 pst will. be a theoretical measure. I hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party will never get a majority in this room, because then the Post will not only become a limited liability company, but relatively quickly privatized. This hope includes that the Christian People's Party, if today's polls strike regarding the election result, does not sacrifice the Post to get some heart issues, which I suspect they may be tempted to do. My hope is that these three parties, including the Left – well below the barrier, thank you and price – will never get a majority in this room. I don't think it's appropriate for a post to take social considerations into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1051	To the left, it is important that we have a nationwide range of mail shipments to secure households and businesses across the country, basic postal services of good quality and at reasonable prices. The left has noticed that the Post regards the requirement for a unique postage within the one-rights area as a disadvantage. In the opinion of the Left, it is important that the price of services within the areas on which the Post Norway BA has a right is the same for all without regard to where one is accommodated. Left, together with a group committee, it looks as if it's not appropriate to change the unique postage system. The main challenges the Post will face in the coming years are improving service and quality, meeting increased competition and decline in physical mail, recruiting, developing and maintaining skilled labour, and adjusting the level of costs. We have recorded that extensive measures have been in place to improve quality with regard to reliable delivery, but although the Post Norway BA was able to meet the concession requirements for carrying out A-post in the fourth quarter of 2000, there is still room for monthly improvement. One is far below the previous performance requirement of 93 pst. I also want to say that there is not always the infrastructure itself that makes one have problems getting the mail. There are similar challenges in the central strata. Int. S. No 248 for 1999-2000, cf. St.meld. No 37 for 1999-2000, Stortinget concluded its plans for the conversion of the despatch network with the Posten. The left will point to the value of no ordinary post office being closed until the alternative control that ensures an equivalent service provision is established in the area. For the left, it is also important that changes to the land-based services provide that the concession requirements are met and that users of the service will be offered at least in line with what is being given today. In the opinion of the Left, it is very positive that work on setting up a public service office has now progressed. In many municipalities, a decision has now been taken on joint public service offices, where municipal and state agencies are being gathered. Opening hours will be adapted to today's post office, i.e. that audiences actually get extended opening time for many public services that have been possible in the past between 08.30 and 15.30. We should be aware that having public service offices with extended opening hours in the case of different services in many municipalities increases the cost of both investing in own premises and operating. The left is not a follower of state-owned templates, but it could think of a variety of solutions that fit the individual municipality and for the benefit of the individual user of the services. The left has noted that in January 2001 a standard operating agreement was concluded between the Municipal Communities’ Central Association and the Posten. The left hopes that this agreement will allow for flexibility, and that the Post Norway AS is liberal when it comes to paying for the services that will be provided from the public service office. The post is currently going through the largest conversion processes in the company's history. Many Post employees may claim that they have undergone continuous conversion processes in the last 10 years. In today's labour shortage situation, good cooperation is needed with all actors in the employment services sector, but it is also important that the transition process is conducted in close cooperation with those added. In order for the Post to take care of and benefit from its competence, the Post must become an attractive job, where both a good working environment and opportunities for development are a central objective. The way the Posten implements the conversion process will show if Posten Norway BA is an attractive workplace. This is crucial for the quality and service of customers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1084	The regulatory time for the evening meeting is just around the corner. The President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will also draw attention to the fact that as far as she understands the recorded lists of speakers, there are only two hours of speaking time left in Stortinget plus voting. Then it's odelsting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1091	The services and activities of the Post are important to all of us. At the same time, the Post is facing major challenges in terms of providing the best possible service to all customer groups, more cost-effective operation and implementation of large conversion projects in relation to the increasing competition in the postal market. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the objectives of the Post Office's activities, and that the strategies set out by the Post Office for the years ahead are necessary and correct. In order to meet the challenges facing the company, it is essential that the company has the necessary business freedom in relation to service development, internal organisation, cooperation and any alliances. This is ensured by the framework conditions currently underpinning the company’s operations. The post is currently carrying out the largest reorganisation processes in the company's history. The reorganisation is absolutely necessary to ensure the Post's future, and there is a broad political consensus on this. The aim is to provide a better and more efficient postal service in all parts of the country, both service-related and economical. The economic performance of the Item in 2000 has underlined the need for cost reductions and increases in revenue. However, as a result of the measures implemented, the preliminary results in 2001 provide a basis for optimism. There is also a broad political consensus that the concession requirements should be met even if significant changes and reorganisations are carried out within the company. As underlined both in the Storing Communication and in the Committee setting, this also applies to the conversion of the Land Postal Service, which is currently assessed by the Post Office. There is a skepticism in the attitude of the Committee on Transport to a development in which the provision of services at contract post offices is reduced in the light of derogations from postal and telecommunications supervision. As mentioned above, there is no doubt that the requirements of the concession in respect of services, etc. must also be met after the conversion of the despatch network and the transition from ordinary post offices to public service offices or contract post offices. It is the Postal and Telecommunications Authority that has a separate responsibility for following up the Post on its compliance with the concession requirements and provides for any exemptions. I would also like to stress that the supervision in its exemption decision in relation to foreign packages and returns has provided that the availability of services is satisfactory for users in all parts of the country, in accordance with the basic conditions of the concession, and that the Post continues to provide services at contract post offices where the local conditions so warrant. Furthermore, the supervision underlines that the services are to be provided at the contract post office where this is the only remaining permanent dispatch point in the municipalities concerned. This is also clarified in the review of supervisory dispensation decisions in the wholesale notification. I therefore assume that the availability of basic services is also good in areas with contract post offices and public service offices. Very many of the employees are affected by the changes in the company. This applies above all to those who become over-numbered, but also to those who will continue to have their work in the Post Office, the transformations will be directly affected by changed tasks and, where appropriate, new places of work, new requirements for efficiency and service, etc. There are very many people who are subjected to heavy loads. It is therefore important and necessary to ensure that employees' interests are safeguarded in the conversion processes. I trust that the Post will ensure this, and that the agreed conversion measures will be followed up throughout the transition period, as the Committee stresses in its comments. Furthermore, it is important, as pointed out both in the Single European Act and by the Committee on Transport, that the Post undertakes the necessary measures to reduce sick leave and the number of disabled persons, and that the focus should be on prevention and follow-up across the group. This is necessary in the interests of employees, day-to-day operations and the additional costs incurred by the company. The SV representative notes in the setting that the Post in its strategy of locating activities seems to have forgotten the part of the country north of the Salt Mountains. This isn't right. In addition, the dispatch network and sorting offices have Ergo Group regional IT functions located in Alta, Tromsø, Harstad and Narvik. ErgoBusiness has established accounting services in Hammerfest, and ErgoEnet, ErgoBluegarden and ErgoBusiness – it is with respect not to report me that has found those names – are established or have functions under construction in Bodø. In other words, North Norway is not excluded from the Posten location plans. The remarks in the Settings of the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party on the Organisational Form of the Post cannot be undisputed. The representatives consider it alarming that the Government does not comply with the Governing Board's wish to transform the company into a limited liability company. To this end, I would like to point out at the outset that the Board of Directors has not made a concrete proposal on conversion into a limited liability company, but has expressed the wish for an assessment of the form of organisation. As indicated in the Storing Communication, the Company Form of the Post is assessed on an ongoing basis. With the amendments to the Postal Company Act adopted by Odelstinget on Thursday, the Post will be even more fully equipped to meet the challenges facing the company, while safeguarding the interests of employees in the major changes that are taking place. Thus, according to the Government’s assessment, the current form of organisation will be satisfactory for the situation in which the Post is located. The right hand party and the Progress Party argue that the board has limited room for action in relation to a share company model. Essentially, this is not right. But the Right Party and the Advance Party can, through that argument, create the impression that this is the case, and that will be unfortunate. I would also like to point out that the cross-ownership and acquisition of equity from the private market require not only the transformation of the Post into a limited liability company, as the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party seem to be the basis, but also a partial privatisation of the company. The government doesn't think that's up to date. I also very much doubt the minority's claim that it would be easier to make necessary redundancies in the company if it had been a limited liability company. Today’s form of organisation and the framework conditions for the Post Office, on which there is otherwise broad political agreement, have not led the authorities in terms of access to the necessary efficiency improvements, on the contrary. It is underlined by all parties that crew reductions in the company are absolutely necessary and that it is important that the synergies of the adopted reorganisation projects are taken into account in terms of reduced costs. The representatives of the Right and the Party of Progress shall state in their comments: ‘This is reflected in the series of examples in which the Government refuses to make the necessary structural changes in the transport sector. This refusal of action by the Government results in Norwegian companies and consumers getting less and more expensive services than they could and should have received.’ If the present big message with the major changes and reorganisations that take place and will take place in the Post in the years to come, and which the Government is behind, is to be regarded as a refusal by the Government in respect of the necessary structural changes in the transport sector, it is with respect to notifying rather alarmingly. In my view, the reorganisation of the Post Office is one of the most important structural changes in the transport sector in recent years. In addition, there is no basis for the representatives’ claim that the government’s policy results in Norwegian companies and consumers getting worse and more expensive services than they could and should have received. A good and efficient postal service at a reasonable price for businesses and individuals throughout the country is also the Government’s overall postal objective, and the Post Office’s activities are crucial in this respect. I want to use this opportunity to inform Stortinget that the Post recently made a proposal to increase equity in the company. The possible contribution of equity is now assessed by the Ministry of Transport, and the Government will present this case in an appropriate manner to the Storing if an increase in equity is deemed appropriate and necessary. Otherwise, I can inform you that an agreement has been reached between the Post and the staff organisations on the cancellation of the company’s business meeting arrangement, and that at the ordinary general meeting in the Post office later this month I will accept this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1134	Today, we are discussing the Post message. I feel that it is closely related to the debate we had in the previous case on the regional communication, that this is very closely linked. In its programme, the Coastal Party has not liquidated the Post. But it doesn't seem like the Council of State has read that program, because it's liquidation that's going on in a big way. District Post Offices are closed, and the workplaces are moved to central struts, and to a large extent to Oslo. The mail is transported by truck to the south to be sorted, then again to be transported northwards. Once it comes out, I can't understand that my experience is consistent with what Stortinget has said, that we're not going to have any quality deterioration. My experience with the Post is that we have half – and hardly enough – as good mail as we had when I arrived at Stortinget in 1997 – four years ago. If this development is to continue, we are without postage. When I grew up on the island of Waterwood in the 1950s, we had a postman called Peder Post. He went in all sorts of weather with the mail and distributed it to people. At least the mail came out. At that time, the Post Office had a motto that was: The post is coming forward. But today you have no idea when the letter comes out when you send it. I have personally waited up to one week at A-post, which is to be given priority. It is, in my opinion, a deterioration in postal services that lacks similarity. Here we are told that we can use e-mail, and we communicate by e-mail. It is good and good with e-mail, but it is not useful to send engine parts by e-mail. It is not useful to send packages by e-mail. If you need a top cap or you need a package, it is not possible to send it by e-mail. You have a business to work with, and you need to get the parts and equipment fast. It's just a bust to experience the evolution that's been going on. And I have to ask the Council of State, has the Post Office saved money on this conversion? That was one of the assumptions. We were supposed to save billions. Has that savings taken place? Have we earned anything on this conversion? Have we reduced the number of jobs, have we reduced the total number of employees? I cannot with my best will understand that people who move to Oslo, and people who work in the Oslo Post Office, work cheaper than those who work at Finnsnes, Vadsø, Røst or Rødøy. I fear that it will be more expensive to work in Oslo, and that there will be more jobs in the Post Office here. So we are told to have service offices. Yeah, I guess that's good. But then we have to get service offices. Today there are a few stores that want to take over the Post. We have a fresh example in the Municipality of Sømna. No one there wants to take over the Post because it's too poorly paid. And what do you do? Then you either have to maintain the post office, or you have to put it down. That's the last thing that's happening -- it's being closed down. And now we're back to what we talked about in the previous case, this with state jobs and the small incentive that public jobs create. When the post office is closed, it is not that long before the store is also closed, and then the building dies. Is that the development we're going to have? We can't do salmon farming here in Oslo, we can't do salmon farming in Spikersuppa, if we wish. District work places must be in the districts. They depend on a well-functioning postal system, and they depend on a well-functioning distribution system. And I think it's absolutely amazing that the unique distribution network that the Post Office had is a wreck. For whom? Yes, for more jobs in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1151	There are few companies and social services that have had to deal with technological development and globalisation to the same extent and with as great an impact on the services as the Post. The size debate in the 1990s shows that not everyone has had the same understanding of this. We have probably also experienced that today, but there has been no peculiarity. Consumers and postal employees have also been among those who have not seen to the same extent the consequences that this has had to have. For me, it has long appeared to be a paradox that consumers have received such a poor offer in some parts of the country, and at the same time experienced, even today, that some politicians have fought against any improvement in these services. Even in my part of the country it was impossible to send parcels via Posten, because the opening time was four hours – and not everyone was self-employed – which made it impossible to pick up the packages. That the central post office, etc., which we were in the vicinity of almost every day, could not be used, was completely incomprehensible. Today, we have a post office attached to other places, which we use, with multiple opening times and even Saturday openings. This means that, of course, you will be much more satisfied with the level of service offered and, at the same time, we are offering an offer that is more in line with the requirements of the consumer, namely availability. Of course, it is a requirement that there should be a good offer to consumers throughout the country. And it is good that the offer has actually been improved, but consumers also have a demand for constant work to improve services. Accessibility is a key point in ensuring good services to consumers. It must not mean an endless discussion about post offices, but should, on the other hand, become an active starting point in order to be at the forefront of, among other things. to establish public service offices. It must also mean that the country postal service remains a central part of the Post Office’s offer. Therefore, it is good that the Government makes such clear demands for this review that consumers should have at least one offer in line with today. There are now enough people who have been contacted about some hopeless issues in the wake of the reorganisation that has been carried out. When you end up calling a country road for a farm road, as the situation was in a case I experienced in my municipality, it gives the impression that it is completely different from the consumer who is in the center. When we also experience price policy being put up to push local and regional competitors, who feel that they are getting good profitability by offering the services that the Posten did before, this gives cause for concern. But there are the results The entry has to be measured after. The potential for improvement is enough there, and will probably always be there, even if consumers also experience that services have improved. Technology will ensure that the requirements of consumers for postal services will only increase in the years to come and the pattern of consumption will change. That's why it's important to have an offensive strategy to meet it. And don't forget, after all, that's for the consumers we have the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1168	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1171	The post is subject to a concession to provide nationwide offers of postal items at a reasonable price and of good quality. With the technological development we have with, among other things, The subsequent decline in physical mail and increased competition in the market poses a major challenge for the Post to be profitable. The item therefore needs to develop new services tailored to customer demand and needs, and in addition to aiming for cost-effectiveness in all parts of the business. It is nice that the Post undertakes to have more units in our district municipalities. When the Post adds its services to stores that have longer opening hours than the post offices had before, and one gets more dispatch points, this would give a much better offer from the Post office than what we had with post offices. Combined with a well-developed rural postal service, this is basically a good solution. It is invaluable for the State to contribute appropriations for the purchase of services so that satisfactory services can be provided in those parts of the country where maintaining a desired level of service does not meet the business economy. However, it is equally important that the offers and agreements concluded with, for example: mail in the store is followed up in order to obtain the quality of the service provided. Today, the post has a great deal of freedom to develop the offer and to select the means of control, for example: service requirements are met. Such freedom is necessary when one must constantly adapt to changes in the demand for services. But not all offers prove to satisfy the requirements. It is therefore of great importance that service users reach out with their views on shortcomings and that these are corrected. This applies, inter alia, to: dispensations granted to contract post offices in connection with the submission of foreign packages and the collection and delivery of goods. In addition, the way in which the service is provided by new partners needs to be reviewed in order to ensure that the service is of good quality and that the contract with Item BA does not merely become an additional income to shops that will increase their performance. If the Post BA continues to have confidence in our districts, feedback from users needs to be taken seriously, and everything needs to be done to improve the offer where it is obvious that it is too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1182	The idea was not to extend the debate, but the Council of State was right with the Right in connection with a comitology that we have linked to the fact that we believe the Government has shown a lack of action, and that this over time has both affected the services of consumers and made the services more expensive than necessary. Of course you have to have a coating to say this. I'm standing here with Innst. S. No 31 for 1996-97, when the special-law companies were established in this house. Linked to that case, a settlement was then concluded between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and SV, and it contained inter alia. the following: The NSB's opening balance sheet increased by 400 million. kr. A separate road paving programme was to be launched in four of those counties. The night train on the Raumaban was to be maintained despite serious unprofitableness. The Post Office was to be instructed that the structure of the municipalities in some contexts should count more than ongoing needs assessment. No one should claim that the compromises of sales do not lead to increased costs in this country and deletion is not the most effective solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1206	When it comes to responsibility for the Raumaban and asphalt on the roads, the committee leader gets to talk to the Christian People's Party; at least that's not what we in SV negotiated about. I would like to say that the misdemeanour description by the representative Bastesen from my county gave, I do not recognize myself in. Actually, you should think in a way that the Post was almost closed, and that he had to swim after the letters. However, I also see pages that could have been better, and that I did not get into my post instead. I have doubts as to whether this centralisation that is now in progress is very strong, and the sorting centres – not least in the districts – can contribute to the increase in the time spent producing the mail. There will be a long way for part of the post that may be going to the neighbouring municipality, which will have to go on a long, long journey first. I think we're going very far now, and I also see that there are some conflicts with the Post and Communications Association on that issue. And given that 93 pst, it might not be any better with that centralization. Otherwise, I would just like to say to the Council of State that the Post has located regional functions in the IT sector in North Norway. Maybe it shouldn't be so impressive. If regional functions were also to have moved out of the country, it would have been frightening. This is about being able to carry out national tasks across the country, and it turns out that this is true. But the Post hasn't gone in the head to do that, except what they've done in Mo in Rana. There they have a good function on it that was once called Posten SDS, which is now called Ergo Group. But beyond that, that part of the country is a forgotten part of the Post Office in terms of outsourcing. A good job can be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1217	First of all, I am pleased that the majority is taking a clear distance from the misdemeanour described by the representative Bastesen. Of course, I agree that the Post must provide a good offer for everyone. And that people who order a new top cap have to get it, is also obvious. In the case of dispatch points, this is an important support for public service offices. I would also like to underline the effect of post offices in many municipalities in supporting a local store. I think we also need to see the clear context in the future. As regards the distribution and the distribution structure, I have to correct Myrvoll a little. There aren't 1,235 households that don't have six days a week, that's 1,236! But in any case it shows that 99.93 pst. has a turnover of six days a week. It's very close to 100 pst, and it should be. But at the same time, there is a very high number in our relatively difficult country of reaching all the working days of the week. In terms of organisation, my intervention was in no way related to 1996 but, by contrast, to 2001. And in today's setting, it says word straight from the Right and Advance Party side: «When the Board of Directors of Post Norge BA requests that the form of the company be assessed, it is considered to be a desire to become a limited liability company. The fact that the Government does not comply with the wishes of the Board of Directors means that the Post Norway meets the future less rusted than the company should be. It is the responsibility of the Government.» – It was this remark that I commented on, and I must – with respect to reporting – say that I see no good arguments for this resulting in weaker services to the customers. With regard to the issue of localisations to North Norway, there are also national functions north of the Salt Mountain. I want to mention the accounting unit in Hammerfest, and it is precisely the technology that has made this possible. And I assume that both the Post – and, for that matter, other businesses – continue to exploit the opportunities offered by the technology to locate jobs in the districts, and preferably north of the Salt Mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. [[See page 3625]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1254	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1268	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President proposes that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1275	Now we're going to deal with three veggies. We're going to move a little bit around the country. We're starting in Uppland, we're going to the Nord-Trøndelag, and we're going to finish in the South-Trøndelag. And maybe it'll be a little easier to get the post in the future! The development of Rv4 in Uppland is mentioned in the National Transport Plan, which provides for a stretching extension. Toll collection proposals are now being submitted to finance the development of phase 1 of this route development. Phase 1 includes conversion of Rv 4 past Raufoss, i.e. Reinsvoll-Hunndalen. Furthermore, construction of pass-by fields is included on the Lygna N-Einavell section, also on Rv 4. The conversion past Raufoss comprises the construction of a 13 km new road on the east side of the centre of Raufoss, with three level crossings, two crossings of the Gjøvik track and construction of approximately 9 km of local roads. The route Reinsvoll-Hunndalen is heavily damaged and traffic leads to noise and other disadvantages for the residents along the road. By paving the road outside the Raufoss centre, long-distance traffic becomes more accessible, road safety improves, and there are fewer disadvantages for residents in the area. It is committed to financing the development of Phase 1 by 140 million. kr in State resources and 155 million. NOK 295 million in tolls. This gives a toll fraction of 53 pst. Toll collection is assumed to start in the first half of 2002. With the assumptions for the tolling calculations, the collection period for phase 1 is calculated to approx. Four years. Phase 2 includes conversion of Rv 4 on the Roa-Jaren route, conversion of the road with construction of pass-by fields on the Amundrud-Lygna S route and restoration of Rv 34 on the Grime-Wesleelva route. The government announces that it will return to this – i.e. phase 2 – in the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. On this basis, I assume that the Stortinget will be presented with a separate case for the development of Phase 2. The county council in Oppland and the municipalities concerned are taking part in the construction of Rv 4 with tolls. In this case, too, the Government will receive broad support from the Committee for the implementation of Phase 1. The Committee points out that the Oppland county has not considered the action programme for other national roads for the period 2002-2011. It is a clear premise that this development is a priority for the implementation of the action programme now in June. This is a prerequisite which must be in place before the agreement with the toll company is concluded. The majority of the Committee concludes that the toll stations will be removed once the Phase 1 projects have been financed and that no funds will be transferred to Phase 2. In the Committee there is some disagreement as to whether the route Vesleelva-Grime on Rv 34 can be expanded with Rv 4 tolls. I point out that this project will first come in phase 2. Therefore, the majority proposes to return to this line in the context of the treatment of the phase 2 financing facility. The majority have further recorded the concerns of East Toten regarding the increase in traffic on Rv 33 and Rv 34 by taking tolls on Rv 4. The majority believe that it is important to follow this trend, but that it is the responsibility of the county to follow this up in the prioritisation of the funds of the other national road network. Finally, I recommend that the Size joins the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1307	An overall committee is in favour of the development of Rv 4, phase 1, with toll financing. A strong emphasis is placed on local willingness to support the development of tolls. The development of Rv 4 in Uppland is very important, not least for the population and business in the Gjøvik, Toten and Land areas. Phase 1 with the conversion of the road away from the centre of Raufoss and the pass-by field on the route Lygna Nord-Einavell will bring great benefits, both for road safety, environment and accessibility – better accessibility, not least against Oslo and against Gardermoen. Phase 2 covers the Roa-Jaren section, passing field for the Amundrud-Lygna South section, and repairs on Rv 34 Grime-Wesleelva against Hov in Land. The road from Hov in Land and south is stretching very bad and is the only alternative for both population and business. The Ministry stresses the importance of seeing the two phases in the context and indicates that this has been an important prerequisite for the local handling of the case. Phase 2 is also proposed by the Government funded by a combination of government funds and tolls. We will come back to this when dealing with the phase 2 financing facility. I would like to remind you that it is also important to follow up another part of Rv 4, namely through Akershus, which is still a bottleneck for Uppland. The development of Rv 4 was the last mentioned in the national transport plan, which states that ‘extreme investment of Rv 4 in Uppland is given high priority during the planning period’. The Ministry has assumed that the Uppland County Municipality will continue to give priority to Rv 4 in the treatment of the action programme, which, I believe, will be dealt with in the district of Uppland tomorrow. Phase 1 costs totalling 295 million. SEK is financed by 140 million. kr in State resources and 155 million. kr in tolls. Phase 1 is carried out during the first four-year period with four years of construction and collection. Despite many and long discussions on toll financing and on toll placement, Oppland has now reached an agreement. Traffic safety, environment and accessibility have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1335	The case rapporteur and the representative Kofoed-Larsen have explained the matter quite well, so there is not much to add. I would just like to stress, as the rapporteur also said in his statement, that there is some disagreement in the Committee on Phase 2. The right has the principle that there should be a link between where tolls are collected and the projects financed by the same tolls. We have then signaled in the setting that if it is a prerequisite for continuing toll collection on Rv 4 in order for the next round to use them on Rv 34, we disagree with that. We see that the decision on this becomes a matter of our own in Stortinget, to which we will come back at a later stage, but we think it is right at the moment to give signals that we are in principle opposed to such a use of the tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1342	It's sad that here you have to go to the step of building Rv 4 out using toll collection. R4 is an important road, not just for Uppland, but for the whole country. We are constantly talking about the large export values and the employment of the many representatives, rapporteurs and others. from North Norway and along the coast, but very few have the eyes aimed at the largest industrial site in the country, with high employment and export value. Here is Raufoss Industrial Park with approx. 3 000 persons employed. We have Mustad and the practice at Gjøvik, just to name a few. All of these enterprises need to make use of a miserable road with the OWN of about 10,000 – a highway passing through densely populated and dangerous traffic traps. Row 4 should have already been – and should have been – the four-field motorway that was built outside all the agglomerations and at a speed limit of 110 km/h. It would really have been a boost for the industry and for the hinterland. It's amazing that after so many years of labor party rule, we haven't made things better for our last major industrial sites – the Workers' Party that promises to maintain the industrial sites. The position of the bombing station on current Rv 4 at the Breiskollen will clearly be opposed to the Progress Party. Here will all the commuters to Raufoss, Hydro Aluminium, etc. become those who have to pay for the new road. And they've already paid it earlier by the state taking into the treasury about 40 billion kroner per year. years. We in the Progress Party can agree to a partial collection on the new road when it is finished, assuming that the current Rv 4 is still free. I refer to our suggestion that has been included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1355	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1358	The Ministry of Transport has submitted a proposal for the collection of tolls to finance the first phase of a forced expansion of Rv4 in Oppland. I have stressed in my assessment that development will improve road safety and road traffic management and that environmental improvements will also be achieved. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget seems to join the main features of the Ministry's proposal. In the local examination of the case, it has been an important prerequisite that phase 1 and phase 2 of the development are seen in the context. This has therefore been an important premise for the Ministry's assessment of the case, and it is therefore announced in the Landfill Proposition that the Ministry of Transport will come back to the Stortinget with a final proposal to collect tolls to finance the expansion of Phase 2 as its own case. In this context, it will be understood that an overall assessment of the investments in the corridor will be made. The size proposition has been promoted even though the county has not addressed the 2002-2011 action programme. It is therefore an important prerequisite for the Ministry’s proposal that the county council should give priority to the development of Rv4 in the examination of the action programme in June 2001. I note that the majority of the committee in the committee's position also underlines this. No regulatory plan has been approved for the whole development of phase 1. As stated in the proposal, the Ministry of Transport will return to the Stortinget with a final estimate of costs for Phase 1. Final appropriations will be made for the examination of the annual budget proposals. In this context, planning and cost estimates will be required according to standard practice. I have noticed that the Committee is divided into the view that the extension of the route Vesleelva-Grime on Rv 34 could be financed by tolls from Rv 4. The development of Rv 34 on the Grime-Vesleelva route is part of phase 2. As already mentioned, the Ministry of Transport will come back to Stortinget with a final proposal to collect tolls in order to finance the development of Phase 2 as a matter of its own on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1371	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1374	Finally, Rv 4 outside the center of Raufoss will become a reality, and finally there will be scratched up the Lies. For about 30 years, we've been waiting to get the highway outside the center of Raufoss. Daily traffic is on average 10,000 cars. It's the same thing in Gran. The numbers are slightly higher in Akerhus, 12,500, and in Oslo 25 000. Row 4 is an accident. More than 480 injuries occurred in the 4-year period 1995-1998. This results in an accident risk that is twice as high as for high-standard two-field roads. The two bad distances – Roa-Jaren and Reinsvoll-Hunndalen – have more than half of the accident damage on Rv 4. Over half of the Uppland population sucks to Rv 4. The industrial employment rate is 70 pst. of the whole county, and the region has the largest forest and agricultural production. All goods are now on the road, and repeated attempts to get goods on the track have so far not been made. The goods have to go out to the market, and they have to get to you unharmed. A garden in Southern Land produces tulips and lilies. Poor road makes the cargo difficult. It is therefore important that the road from there – Rv 34 – is subsequently repaired. For Eastern Toten in particular, Rv 33 is an important exit vein. Several razed road sections through the Skreiberga need to be repaired. I am pleased that the majority in the vote has pointed out this relationship and the responsibilities of the county council. Bad roads are expensive and burdensome for business. Therefore, the municipalities that claim Rv 4 have agreed to require better roads. But everyone realizes that tolls must be part-financed if they are to become a reality in the near future. The process has not been painless. With heavy roofs and a bit of bitter feuds, it has now come to an agreement, and we can enjoy the decision that will be taken here in the Stortinget today, and that will realize a completely necessary road development. But the trasés outside Uppland County remain. Development through Nittedal and Oslo, Oslopack 1 must be carried out as soon as possible, which will also be requested by the district council in Oppland, which will meet today and tomorrow. It also requests that Rv 4 be given tribal road status and points out that Rv 4 and Rv 33 act as relief routes for E6. One experiences on days of long queues to sit in the car and listen to the traffic radio to choose these options, because there is a stop on E6. It's a reality that we live with, and that's why we're happy that we're finally going to have Rev 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1395	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1409	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other parties 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1416	This proposal proposes to establish a bombing around the centre of Namso in order to collect tolls for the partial financing of the Namdal project. The project is mentioned in the National Transport Plan. The main gravity of the work to be done is along the centre of Namso Rv 769, with new bridge over Namsen, tunnel past the Vika and repair of the Namdal road. In addition, several smaller environmental and road safety measures shall be implemented. I would like to point out that the development of actions in the Namdals project is a socially useful investment based on the positive effects on, among others, the environment. road safety, noise and air pollution as well as reduced transport costs for industry in the region. The project has a cost framework of 305 million. 2001-kr. Toll collection is expected to start in 2003 with a 14-year toll collection period. There is a local political majority for the construction and implementation of the Namdal project. This is now followed up by a broad majority of the Committee, which joins the Government's proposals for implementing this project. I assume that the minority in the Committee will explain its position and proposals. I would therefore like to pay close attention to mentioning one of the projects that are controversial in the suspension, namely the grant for the construction of Horkbrua on Fv 434. The majority correctly indicates that this is not in line with the general guidelines for the use of tolls. However, the majority will join the Government's assessment that this bridge can be covered by tolls, since there is a local political majority for this, and the size of the grant is as limited as in this case. I point out that this bridge has a cost estimate of 32 million. kr. It is foreseen that only a grant of 8 million will be granted. kr of tolls for construction if the county is able to fully finance the bridge. This grant will therefore constitute a quarter of the total cost of the bridge and must be considered limited, to which the majority refers. Finally, I recommend that the Size joins the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1437	In the Christian People's Party, we have relatively good experience of hard work and spice, and very many transportation projects had not been realized today without creative local initiatives. Toll financing for the Namdal project in the North Trøndelag is currently under way. I'm not going to go into detail about the project itself, because it's done very well, but what's going on is doing something about traffic conditions in and around Namsos. Fewer traffic accidents, fewer congestion due to traffic noise, lower driving and time costs, a cleaner and more attractive urban environment and a better walking and cycling network are expected. In total, this gives a positive cost-benefit for this project. We are aware that there has been a lot of debate about the bombing, but in the Christian People's Party we are told that there is a local majority to start the project. We also see the importance of spending $8 million. SEK from the tolls of Fv 434, Horkbrua in Overhalla municipality. This bridge over Namsen will also relieve traffic through Namsos. In the Christian People's Party, we are somewhat amazed at the Right who has such a high profile in the field of transportation, but who wants to ri formalism in this matter and stop a very important county road project that is demonstrably important to the totality of the Namdal project. Finally, a few words to the Progress Party, which has taken on a standard formulation in relation to all local, creative proposals for road financing. They will use their additional NOK 46 billion that they have committed to the national transport plan to solve all road sector challenges during the planning period. All projects shall be capable of being built by state resources, unless a free bypass can be provided for those who will not be on the fissure layer. But then there's one exception: in the case of Rv 4, you can go in for toll financing with post-clearance collection. Maybe there's a bypass here, right? Yeah, I'm just wondering what's the reason in the special case. I can understand a principleal attitude towards toll financing, but the unsolidarity of a free corridor is very difficult for me to deal with. In addition, it will be that the Progress Party, which has a lot of money for transportation, and which has a high profile on the way, with its principal attitude as they now, as far as I can see, writes in on all toll projects, will have to become a no-way party in very many things in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1452	As in the previous case, the rapporteur has made an excellent account of the matter, but it is for the Right to say some fundamental things about this – a little about the previous case as well. The right has supported the vast majority of toll cases in this house, but under given conditions. One is that there should be local political agreement about it, the other that the project must be defined in such a way that you know what to go into it, and the third that there should be consistency between payment and use. These have been our main principles – and then the bombs will come down when the project is paid down. I've previously said from this pulpit that I see a constant drift of this in a direction that I don't like very well. It is still seen that the relationship between payment and use is broken by toll projects. The tolling system thus continues to slip — a little after a while — from being a source of funding for road projects to becoming a general funding for transport: a new road tax. As far as the Namdals project is concerned, it is quite obvious that there is a drift on and off. The representative Sahl thought it was to ri formalism. No, that's not it, because in the previous case that we were dealing with, and that pertaining to Uppland, we were told that in phase 2, you can also use the exact same principle. Tolls can be collected on Rv4 to finance another route on which the drivers do not drive. We will warn against such a development. In this context, the Ministry itself warns, for the proposition states: «It is highly likely that only a small proportion of the payers will benefit from this project.» It is also pointed out, in fact, that this use of funds is contrary to the intentions underlying the Toll Agreement in Stortinget. I think you should pay attention to that. It's not my job to raise a warning index finger, and that's not sure it'll even be listened to. But there may be a danger – not to be overlooked – that local communities can find this closest ‘proliferation solution’ that money can be spent on many and many things, as a basis for finding a majority: you accept almost anything in a toll project, because you know that you do it, you get everyone a little, and then you get the project through. But the danger of such a vision is that the confidence of drivers in the actual toll system over time is weakened. That's going to be the seventh and last time we all lose. The day the drivers in Norway say no, we don't want any more toll projects, because we can't trust the politicians, because the money doesn't go to what was required, and then we all have a financing problem. I stress that the Right has also been for toll systems where it has obviously been beneficial, and where the projects could be realized in the past, so that we could collectively take out the financial gain from them. Right will take out this county road bridge, and I don't think it's very unnatural either, because it's far, far away from the project itself. There's no connection. The ministry itself says that the vast majority of those who pay tolls will not run over this bridge. Then you've broken the principle that the Right believes is important. That is why I am promoting the proposal that the Right in the case, that we want to take out the county road bridge of the project. But otherwise, we vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1479	Oddvard Nilsen has promoted the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1482	This matter is well reflected in the long debate we have had today on regional and regional policy, in which we have heard many speeches from all the other parties with great words stress the importance of good infrastructure. In particular, a well-developed road network in the districts is mentioned in this context – priority should be given to it. This setting from the majority shows that this is just a party speaker. It is with great interest that I too, in addition to listening to the various contributions earlier today, have looked at the different comments in the position on regional and regional policy. It's particularly interesting to notice where the Right is with the Advance Party. Yes, even the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party are united with the Progress Party on comments that point to how much needs to be put in place both in investment and in road maintenance in the transport sector. In particular, it points to the importance of rural areas. Here, all of the other games prove the opposite. Let there be no doubt: the Progress Party shares the views of the representative Røtveis and also the representative Sahl on all the positive aspects of the project in Namdalen. The difference is that the representative Sahl says that the only way to get this project in place is through tolls. He says that the Progress Party has an easy-to-use way of dealing with such projects, and we ignore creative solutions. The Progress Party does not regard tolls as a creative solution. Tolls in Namdalen will simply be a load for the tolls. It is also interesting to note what Red Road opened up in the previous case: When we get these toll projects in place, it becomes so much easier to get the mail, he says. That's exactly the opposite -- it's getting heavier to get the post office out, and it's getting more expensive. But it's an underlying argument for the majority. So it's also interesting to note that both of these representatives point to the local political majority, who have gone for this project. Yeah, well, here there's certainly been a lot of broken promises. We also saw from the results of the 1999 local elections what the take-offs see about the broken promises. Something else I want to mention in this context is priorities. I notice that there are the same parties here that want a bombing around Namsos, which at an earlier time would spend almost $1 billion on adding seven roundabouts through the Steinkjer center. Here it says $140 million to get the entire project in port without tolls. But they're willing to spend a billion dollars building some roundtrips in the middle of Steinkjer Center and past the elementary school, etc. – a strange priority, you ask me! And this is in a period when the state is essing out of money! This is in a situation where the construction industry is struggling – there are 3,000 workers waiting to get a job! This is in a period where we're talking about moving jobs into the districts! And this is in an area where we see great growth in the future! It is almost that one suspects that the majority deliberately wants poor and expensive solutions in the districts to hinder people's mobility. It seems that the majority is afraid that people are going to discover a world outside the districts, and thus have to make their own choices. I am promoting that proposal on behalf of the Progress Party that is in the position, and I conclude by saying that I think it is sad that the majority has spent several hours today making their false appearance to the Norwegian people in district and regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1499	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1502	I am in doubt that this project has a significant impact on the delivery time for the post office. I am also in doubt if the use of tolls will make it much more expensive to obtain the post office, so I do not know if the post office will in some way become a little siding in this debate. It's at least so that a number of projects in District Norway are funded through tolls, and it's been an important piece to get some projects in place. As far as this project is concerned, there is a local majority, but at least there is no local consensus. There's a big fight about the project. 7,000 signatures were collected against the project, maybe on a slightly different basis, some against tolls, some against the design of the project. At the municipal elections, too, there was a great deal of difference. This is probably one of two municipalities in Norway, I believe, where SV is the largest party – and we like to be the largest party – without getting any rapporteurs, it is now. I guess there were other constellations that decided. What makes me very skeptical is not just questions about hard work, there may be more questions about the design of the project. There are no capacity problems on the road network today. According to the local transport plan, which was adopted five years ago, this will not be achieved until 2020. In other words, you have time to find an optimal, good solution. One suggests that all transit traffic on Rv 769 should pass through the centre of Namsos. The way I evaluate it, it might be a little bit wise. It was said by the previous speakers here that a expected large growth in the area, and that growth goes, among other things. on arable land. This means that freight transport is also growing and going through the centre area. In addition, there is a conflict about the wedding settlement on Rv 769, Tendeholmen. It is controversial both in relation to residential areas and wetlands. It has been said that this will reduce the number of accidents, but this project does not include the road sections in the state that are most at risk. I think it would have been wise to spend more time finding a solution – for it must be lived with in the future – that is better designed than the one proposed. That is why we say no to this package, and I am going to promote the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1513	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1517	The Namdals project has a number of good objectives that can be summarised as follows: fewer accidents, fewer traffic noise, lower driving and time costs, among others. for industry in the region, a more attractive urban environment and a better pedestrian and cyclist road network. These measures have a positive impact on the urban environment in Namsos and a positive industrial ring-effect. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport have also noted the positive effects of this project and that it is a socially useful investment. The project has broad localisation despite all, and the county council has confirmed its support for the project at the latest at the recent review of the action programme for the period 2002-2011. The government attaches great importance to this local political uprising, and I note that the majority of the Committee on Transport also does the same. The main gravity of the Namdal project includes actions at the centre of Namso at Rv 769. The road has a traffic load ranging from 3500 to 16000 vehicles in annual traffic. The risk of accidents is high and roadside residents are plagued by traffic noise. Three route measures shall be implemented on this national road and added to the construction of 434 Horkbrua. The project has a cost framework of 297 million. 2001-krona, of which 46 pst. shall be financed by tolls and 54 pst. by state resources. In addition, a grant of 8 million is committed. SEK of tolls for the construction of county road 434 Horkbrua if the county municipality is able to fully finance the bridge. In that case, the total cost framework for the Namdal project will be 305 million. 2001-krona. Government budget appropriations are foreseen for the period 2004 to 2009, while the construction period is planned for the period 2002 to 2006. It has been stipulated that the State funds will be increased by borrowing the toll company. The maximum loan amount of the company is 219 million. kr, and Nord-Trøndelag County has taken a decision on the guarantee for the loan. The toll collection is planned to start in 2003 with a 14-year toll collection time, and four unmanned toll stations will be established that form a closed ring around Namso’s centre. The toll ratio is slightly lower than the general principle of the guidelines for a minimum share of 50 pst. However, without the advance of State funds with tolls, the toll ratio would be more than 50 pst. With subsidies to the county road bridge, the toll ratio will increase to nearly 48 pst. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport subscribes to the views of the Government. I recognize that I have been in doubt about issues related to the 434 Horkbrua district road, but I have focused on the local political majority. I have also stressed that the toll ratio is relatively low for this bridge, and I am pleased that these are considerations shared by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1536	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1539	The Namdal project merges into the series of bombing rings that appear as pad hats around the country. The bombings shall not escape a single escape — there is no alternative with a free bypass. No, here everyone has to pay, whether they want to or not. Osloringen, the Eastfold package, the North-Jearen package and now the Namdal project are examples of the total skinning of the drivers. The ever-increasing amount of toll collection and this charge now amounts to over DKK 2 billion per year. years. The driving party is very concerned about this accelerating development in relation to building roads with tolls, and that motorist tolls are used for purposes other than highway investment, we think are extra bad. We are totally opposed to the total closure of areas by bombing, and there is no single alternative with free bypasses. Furthermore, we are concerned about the large amounts that are currently being accepted for the construction and operation of toll stations, resulting in large additional costs for the drivers. Due to the ever-increasing development of road construction with tolls, we are thinking of starting new projects based on toll collection. So a little back to the representative Sahl, who spoke of the ‘unsolidarian with a free corridor’. I noticed that he said. And it is clear that the representative of Sahl has not understood any of our principles. For whom is it really unsolvable? It's a Christian People's Party. First, they take NOK 38 billion from the drivers, and in addition they pop up toll stations all over the country and take over NOK 2 billion more. I'm not going to say that it's immoral, but it must be unsolvable with the drivers who pay so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1550	Just a brief comment on the two contributions of the representatives of the Progress Party. Firstly, no toll project will be adopted in this room unless it comes after a local initiative. So the Christian People's Party on the Storting «does not pop up the toll project». However, we are open to local initiatives in order to obtain road projects faster than can be achieved through the annual state investment. And in this case, it's a desired project. It is a local initiative and a local majority that is behind it, although it has been a debate. So in this case, I can see nothing but that it is the Progress Party that overrides local initiatives that have come here to the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1555	It may be regrettable to withdraw the debate, because it's getting late, but I don't actually think the representative Sahl from the Christian People's Party can get away with what he says in his last post. Because that's completely wrong. And that's what's the basic problem. We have to use tolls to get the project in place faster," says the representative Sahl. But that's completely wrong. If the Christian People's Party would create a majority to grant 140 million. State dollars for the project we're talking about here, the project would have been in place faster. The construction industry is waiting to get started. It's just about getting money. And then until the representative Sahl also says, that the Christian People's Party on the Stortinget does not make sure that toll projects appear around the country. Yes, then I would like to ask the representative Sahl the following: What then has the Christian People's Party done in Namsos, what has the Christian People's Party done in the North Tribute County? Well, they've given advice to the Christian People's Party on the Stortinget to launch a toll project. And finally, I thought maybe there was some morality in the Christian People's Party, but they use tolls in a way that looks like a modern highway robbery to the drivers. They've been using more posts today to focus on how important it is to get roads in the districts, etc., and then they're showing the opposite. I dare – in an area where my colleague, the representative Nistad, dares not – to call this immoral. Because it may be interesting to go through the whole debate today, which has been about district and regional policy, and record what the Christian People's Party has said, because what they are doing in this one matter breaks down everything they have said earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1566	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox [[See page 3626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1580	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1587	As far as this process of mass destruction is concerned, we agree to write a little piece of road history when we decide today that the E39 Øysand-Thamshamn should be a so-called OPS test project. OPS stands for Public Private Cooperation, and it simply means that the overall tasks of projecting, financing, constructing, operating and maintaining the road are put out to open international competition. This project is the very first transport project in Norway to be built and operated in this way. And I'm counting on more than me waiting excitedly to see how this model will work. We opened up to the principle of this type of road development in the landfill of the national transport plan earlier in spring. The majority asked for three trial projects, and that's the first of these we're dealing with right now. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee emphasises the need for a thorough evaluation of these types of projects, both on the way and after, in order to find out whether this way of building roads is socio-economically sensible in Norway. I have to admit that during the treatment of the transport plan, I had the impression that there were some parties that had some sort of ideological conviction that this model almost guaranteed efficient operation, and would almost make it a general rule for the future development of road and rail in this country, without any experience from OPS projects in Norway. Some even categorically stated that this was to be used for a total system conversion in Norwegian transport. I am pleased that today's setting is more sober and underlines what is also the Econ's clear advice, namely that we have to try out here and get experience to see if this actually has something to do with it. I think it's smarter to try this out in three projects than in 20. Perhaps it is that the differences between us are not so great when we come to the practical implementation of the concrete projects, which may sound like when we debate principles. Having said that, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party is going in to try out this model because we believe that there is actually something to pick up, and that the model has something to do with achieving both economic gains and perhaps better roads. Therefore, we will carry out both project and evaluation in order to have this confirmed. But I would like to stress that we must be clear not to create the impression that this is a new and deceptive way of sneaking in the queue. Whatever form of funding we have to follow the priorities that have been made here in the house and out in the counties. Some people have clearly come to the conclusion that if road projects can be built using OPS, it will cost nothing, and therefore we do not have to care if the projects are highly priority or not. If we allow ourselves to be tempted to participate in such a gallery, I think we can create major problems for our successors and transport politicians centrally for many years to come. I want to warn as much as I can against contributing to such a development, no matter what the party color you have. So a little bit to the road project itself. There has been a lot of controversy about the choice of trasé, especially in Buvika. Fortunately, the government showed action by the Minister for the Environment, so that the matter was not sent out on desert migration. Ev 39 The Coastal Path is the main trajectory between south-west parts of the South-Trundelag and Trondheim/Værnes, and between Ålesund/Molde/Kristiansund and Trondheim. The route Klett–Orkanger is therefore the most trafficked part of the Coastal Road in the South Trøndelag, and Øysand–Thamshamn, which constitutes most of this route, is important, not least for the industry in the region. Furthermore, the aim of the project is to improve safety, accessibility and the environment along this route. Finally, there is no doubt that it is important for this project to find its solution. That is why I am pleased that the majority in the Committee joins in the arrangement for implementing this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1615	Ev 39 is the main trajectory between the North West and Trondelag, the tribal road along the coast. The project's route is important for the movement from the south-west parts of the South-Trøndelag to Trondheim and Værnes, and for the journey from the coast of Morene and Romesdal to Trondheim. Today's road passes through three densities and has a periphery along most of the route. The road has functions as both a local and a long way. Development will increase safety, promoteability and reduce the environmental impact on those living along the road. Today's road has 400 crossings and departures, and approx. two thirds of the distance has a speed limit of 50 or 60 km/h. The project is estimated at 1,260 million. kr. Nearly half of the new road will go into the tunnel. The landscape and the population do not allow so many other alternatives. On the route past Buvika, the trasé elections are controversial. The county council raised objections to the road in the spring below the settlement. Such a road would lead to major interference in a natural area such as has a rich bird life. The County Agriculture Council announced its opposition to an internal alternative that would lead to major interventions in cultivated land. The Ministry of the Environment followed the opposition from the county. So it becomes an internal option. Actually, it is unfortunate that it has not been possible to find a trasé choice where an avoidance of major interference, both in the spring and in cultivated land. The project shall be extended with partial toll financing. The Christian People's Party joins in the proposal for toll schemes that have been negotiated. The Christian People's Party has already agreed to extend this project as a OPS project by examining its national transport plan. This will thus be the first project to be developed as a Public Private Cooperation. There are a number of challenges in the process. The project has been proposed based on a contract-based model. The proposed company receives annual compensation from the road and during the period of operation and maintenance of the company, 20-25 years. The company must itself finance the development through loans and, after opening the road, an annual compensation from the State. The annual payment from the State will come from both toll revenue and government appropriations, covering both operations and maintenance, interest and repayment of loans. The proposed company will take a large part of the risk associated with development costs, time of completion and operating and maintenance costs. The country will have uncertainties related to any deviations in toll revenue, take much of the risk associated with inflation, changes in standards and any individual changes in its plans. Risk distribution becomes a significant part of the contractual relationship. It is positive that from the first pilot project, the contract should include incentives in the form of bonus and penalty schemes. Among other things, a limited bonus scheme is considered if the road achieves a better safety than comparable roads. This is in order to encourage the company to invest in its own road safety measures. Hopefully, we can transfer this kind of thinking to rail transport as well. By extension as a OPS project, the extension is released from the annual appropriations of the Stortinget until completion of the road. The company being awarded the contract will have economic motives associated with the most rational progress in its development. This may in itself imply an efficiency potential. Regardless of the extent of OPS projects in the future, an organisation that ensures rational development, irrespective of the annual budget, should be pursued. Development as a OPS project postpones the state payment and gives us the freedom to make funds available for other purposes in the first years. At the same time, however, it should not be concealed and one should always remember that it confiscates funds after opening and for 20 to 25 years ahead, i.e. a pretty strong commitment for many years. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority, will stress that the OPS project is evaluated both during the process and afterwards to determine whether this is a sensible organisation. It will be an exciting project, and the majority of the Committee will ask for continuous information on experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1643	It is true, as the case-rapporteur said, that in a way it is road history that is now written in late hours of night. It is enough that Public Private Cooperation entered into the Storting linked to a budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Right and the Advance Party. It's taken a reasonable amount of time to get some projects out, but it's now. We'll be happy to have one, and then in the national transport plan it's set up for a few more. It's also true, as it's claimed, that this is something new, and we're going to gain experience from this. I think maybe the majority in some contexts have had an approach that is based on perhaps not having the greatest expectations of this. It remains to be seen. I believe that Norway needs innovation in this area. I think it would make sense if contractors, funding sites and holdings, and contractors on the operating side and the maintenance side, then formed a company that is able to solve road projects differently from what we are doing. I'm not going to hide that for the Right this is also a structural change. There's no doubt about it. The party believes, of course, that we do not need the significant production capacity of the state road system today. There is no doubt that there is a market out there with Norwegian entrepreneurs who can build the most of what we would like to build in this country, if we just want to go that way. It does not have the majority of the Biggest yet wanted. My wish is in many ways that this OPS project and the others are well implemented, and that you are willing to consider what might come out of it, both the positive and the negative. But I would like to stress what is our main principle: in the future, I think we need to see more strongly that heavy, public institutions that are significant, as the state road system is – if I don't remember correctly, they probably have nearly 11,000 employees across the system – is a problem if we want to move resources in the future. I see the Minister of Finance is here. I expect him to be concerned with the same problem, namely that if you want to move money from one place to health, school or whatever, it's important that we don't have heavy, public structures that lock us up for years with significant amounts. We have previously addressed migration problems related to the Post Office, and it is not unknown to anyone that we have had any problems with the NSB as well. All of this shows in many ways that heavy public institutions tend to be expensive over time. So for us this is a nice day. We've had an impact on this. It may be one of the political victories that can be noted after these four years. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party was very negative as this idea emerged. Today the tone was a little different. Maybe we'll meet next time, and then we'll see that maybe this wasn't that stupid anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1656	For the nth time we have a toll project for treatment here in Stortinget. There have been three pieces just today, and I don't have numbers on how many we've had in the past. On the other hand, what is a bit exciting about this project is that it is a so-called OPS project, Public Private Cooperation. So it's going to be a test project for how to plan, build and run a road project. For us in the Progress Party, this need not be a trial project. We believe that a lot of road construction should be done this way, except for the toll collection. It should have been a refund to the builders, either based on an annual fixed sum or on an amount per. Pass-by. This is how we could avoid the expensive farms and employment plants that all these toll stations have become. But we've gone into this toll collection solution in order to initiate a OPS extension. We in the Progress Party want the collection to be carried out only on a new E39, so that the old trajectory remains free of charge. I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1670	The representative Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1673	It is positive that we are now launching one of the OPS projects for which there were multiples in the national transport plan. The centre batch is positive for testing OPS and considers it important to initiate the projects concerned. The Øysand-Thamshamn route is a highly trafficked part of the E39 main year of travel in the South-Trundelag. Therefore, it is of great value to all road users and not least the business community that this road is being improved. When I speak in this debate, it is not because the Central Party objects to the Øysand-Thamshamn OPS project as a partial toll project. But the Center Party is critical of parts of the line selected. In Buvika and Børsa, which are two of the densely populated areas of the road through, the project will engage heavily in areas that are well-suited for agricultural purposes. The deposits of mercury in the area will lead to large natural interventions. Some have said that due to the presence of mercury, it may be necessary to create a propellant at the edge of the beach in Buvika. On questions from the Committee, the Ministry has replied that it is not right for this to be assessed. However, the Ministry also states that in the OPS project, there is a greater chance for the project company to come up with its own solutions on how to carry out the tasks than is the case for traditional projects. As the project company is not selected, we therefore do not know what solutions the project company will propose. The Ministry also states in another response that if land is built on the area between new vegetation and the sea in Buvika, stabilisation measures may be needed. A natural question will then be: how extensive will the stabilisation measures be in that case? And if, for various reasons, stabilisation measures in the coastal zone might be relevant, why have so many people thought it would be inappropriate to put the new E39 in this area? I have realised that there are several numbers in the committee and therefore also in the Stortinget to avoid resuming the trasé choice. I am also aware that the matter we are debating today, not primarily with regard to the trasé elections, but with regard to the E39 Øysand-Thamshamn as a OPS test project with partial toll financing. In spite of the critical comments we have on the trasé elections, the centre party will support the project as a OPS project with partial toll financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1688	This is not a good project, neither design nor financial. To take the last one first: the Right Party and the Advance Party managed in negotiations with the Central Government to get them to say yes, yes, we have to be on the OPS, and then they suddenly become in the center some enthusiastic followers of the OPS – very enthusiastic. And once there is a majority, the Workers' Party does not have any particular choice when they take over, they must also implement the OPS and defend it. In principle, it's probably a real Right Party thinking that's been able to conquer a majority. What we're doing here is actually living on an advance, that is, binding up future government budgets. I do not ignore that for these projects this may mean a more effective implementation, but the projects not covered by OPS will become even more vulnerable compared to the government budgets that come in the future. If we commit funds to future government budgets – and these projects must get the money, they are contractually secured – the other projects to be built will become all the more vulnerable. I don't think it always makes sense to live in advance and commit future government budgets, as you do here. One might say that one project may not be so dangerous, but I do not ignore the fact that there may be more – based on polls for the time being, there may be a lot of people. In that case, there may be little to do in future committees, because there is no money to be made available, because everything is tied up in projects that have been forged. So it was the design of this. At least a very conflicty trajectory has been chosen. There's a lot of interference in agricultural land, land use interventions, and I think there's also a lot of uncertainty about the mercury content. I also see the possible perspective that the representative Ringstad had in mind, namely that the builders here have relatively large freedoms in the design of the project. At least there have been pretty strong signals that it could be appropriate to build some kind of barrier in the spring, which means that you do not get any slippages. If you get there, you've actually got the worst part of both projects, that you've broken both the beach zone and the agricultural area, so on the SV side, we would probably have preferred to have found a different trajectory solution. But in any case, we would have said no to the form of funding, so we put forward our own proposal and will then vote against the committee's recommendation. Then I will address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1701	The representative Inge Myrvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1704	The Ministry of Transport has submitted proposals for the implementation of Ev 39 Øysand-Thamshamn as a OPS project. Public Private Cooperation – OPS – is referred to in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011, where the Ministry of Transport recommends the implementation of two pilot projects. Ev 39 Øysand-Thamshamn was recommended as one of the pilot projects. When examining the notification, Stortinget asked for another test project. The OPS project on EV 39 includes the development of Ev 39 Øysand-Thamshamn, while the operational and maintenance phase is proposed to include a slightly longer distance: Ev 39 Klett-Bårdshaug. Tolls are proposed for the partial financing of development. As this is the first test project in Norway, some general aspects of the OPS model are clarified in connection with this project. I stress that the OPS model has to be designed so that the risk is placed with the party that can most effectively control and thus praise the different risk elements. Among other things, the project company will take a large part of the risk associated with the development, operation and maintenance costs. As reported in NTP 2002-2011, the country retains the traffic risk. This means that permanent annual compensation is agreed by the State of the project company and that toll revenue is partly covered by that compensation. The final risk distribution between the State and the company will result from detailed negotiations with the project companies concerned. The annual remuneration of project companies is laid down in a contract with the State. The contract period will be set at 20-25 years. A potential benefit of the OPS arrangement is that it can trigger new technical solutions. To this end, the specifications to which the project company is subject are, as far as possible, based on functional requirements. Therefore, in a OPS model, there will be far greater possibility for providers to provide their own solutions than in traditional implementation. The Committee has also taken this into account. Calculations have been made showing the necessary payments to the project company based on estimates of costs after traditional implementation. Increased competition, a change in the risk-sharing and greater opportunities for new technical solutions draw on the fact that the costs of a pre-negotiated OPS contract are lower than the cost estimate available. At the same time, there will also be uncertainty about the OPS model pulling the other road. External quality assurance of the project has been carried out, cf. in the Yellow Book for 2000. The quality assurance does not deliver any discrepancy with the available estimate of costs, but underlines the uncertainty of the OPS model. A significant part of the uncertainty is that this is a new model and the uncertainty will be significantly reduced at the time of the conclusion of the contract. The project is intended to be awarded to a company following the conduct of an international bidding process. In selecting a contracting partner, the provisions of the applicable State acquisitions legislation are followed. The Directorate of Roads proposes to issue a call for tenders in the autumn of 2001. Contract conclusion could take place in the autumn of 2002. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the route Øysand-Thamshamn will replace a particular accident-related route. The project helps to improve safety conditions, reduce existing environmental problems caused by car traffic, improve accessibility and reduce the cost of transport to industry on the route. When recommending toll collection for the project, I have also stressed the local handling of the case and the overall view of the development of the transport system in the region behind the local decisions. The project is the first test project for an OPS model carried out in Norway. The project itself is suitable as the first pilot project, because it is composed of both tunnels and bridges and, as a whole, offers construction challenges within reasonable limits. The project will be evaluated and Stortinget will be briefed on the experience of the pilot project, as requested by the Committee. So finally some words about the Road Service. When the representative Nilsen says that these are heavy structures that are bad to turn around, I must be allowed to state that today the Vegvesen itself stands for only 23 p.m. of what is used for road transport purposes in terms of investment and operation. It is obvious that we must constantly make sure that we have a maximum effective road system, but I am convinced that at the same time we are served to have a powerful road system, precisely to make the best use of the resources that society provides for road purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1722	Several have not asked for the word – correction; there are still speakers on the list.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1725	I understand the president well, it's getting late in the evening, so he'll have done away with the debate. But I have to say a few words in this debate as well. I must say that I fully agree with Mr Røtweg's representative when he proposes that it is time to implement these road projects in order to make the post easier. In that I fully agree with him, for on many roads around this country I most want to sit down and sing Hompetitten-vise in good Prussian-spirit. We have many, many road projects that really need a solution, and it is with pleasure that I can see that some of them will be solved. What I'm less happy about is that we have to do modern highway robbery by making payments from people for every time they pass such an electronic city wall, or bomb, as it's called. We pay a toll today, we pay a toll, we pay an annual fee, we pay a registration fee – and of course we pay VAT on top of it. It's a shame how drivers and people in this country are treated by the state. It's not like to record that the political parties in this country are buffers between the people and the state. They don't listen to people, and they don't make life much easier for people to live. Why don't we make the likes of building roads like we did when we built the Gardermoban? Then it was just built, and the bill has taken place afterwards. We've given up $11.5 billion of debt. Why can you accept that a railway is being built to transport people between Gardermoen and Oslo? It's going to pay the state the full price, but we can't afford to build roads so people can get there without risking their lives. It's a cross of thought that I can't ignore. I just want to let you know that we are totally opposed to tolls, but there is no more sense and understanding in this room to solve the transport project. After the state has planned hundreds of millions and billions, which they have stolen from the drivers, money that was meant to be used to repair roads and improve road standards in this country, it is now being used as a tax charge to increase the tax base. It is not in line with the view of the Coastal Party. I dare remind you that I have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals some time ago to spend the same amount that we've spent on the Gardermoban, to clear debts that toll scales had, as well as to use the money to give the people free ferries. That was enough of the 10 billion that had been granted earlier. Also in this budget, we added to the appropriations. NOK 1.7 billion disappears quietly, puzzled away, not mentioned, should not be talked about. Because it is so fine that when the investments are made, they have no inflationary effect. A proposal to the Council of State: Start building roads, then we'll clear the debt afterwards! Because it can't be much worse to clear the debt after a coup d'état that's built in Northern, Finnmark or the West than to clear the debt of the Gardermoban. When the job is done, it is not inflationary. So use the Opseth method -- build roads, because the debt is cleared. The size does it by the way, and then we don't talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1738	The President looks forward to the end of this debate for several reasons. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1743	The Progress Party is pleased that the route Øysand-Thamshamn is now finally embarking on as a OPS project, although we would initially like this route to be built by state resources and not by further taxation of the driving lists by tolls. If the path is not now built as an OPS project, it will be postponed on time. Oddvard Nilsen and Børge Brende have previously stated to the press that the Centre and the Right earlier agreed to grant more to the road sector, so that E39 could start in 2001 without toll collection. It is therefore strange that these batches are now in favour of toll collection also on the current E39. If these parties had kept their promises and supported the proposals of the Advance Party for road appropriations, E39 Øysand-Thamshamn had been built without toll collection. Skan municipality originally decided to add a new E39 to a combined bro-molo solution in the distance past Buvika, a decision supported by the Progress Party. This has been a strange thing, where the Progress Party believes that of the three lines that have been proposed, the outer line is the best and cheapest. It would produce least interference in nature, while providing positive ring-effects in the form of marinas and more nesting areas for bird life. The Ministry of Agriculture has also raised objections to the current chosen route, but the County and the Ministry of Environment have reviewed the decision despite local resistance. The Progress Party believes that the path that the Ministry of the Environment has now chosen, which goes through valuable agricultural land and also mercury, is both more expensive and more damaging to nature than the external trajectory would have done. This is a desired project because of the lack of road appropriations, which is due to the unwillingness of the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties to allocate enough to the road sector. In addition, tolling on already paid roads is, to quote the representative Per Sandberg, ‘land road robbery’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1767	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1909	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Jorunn Ringstad on behalf of the members of the Presidency Hans J. Røsjorde, Odd Holten and himself proposal No. 4, from President Svein Ludvigsen's proposal No. 5, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the member of the Presidency Hans J. Røsjorde The suggestions are included on page 6 of the setting. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from President Hans J. Røsjorde. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Entry D shall be replaced by the following: the amendments in paragraphs A and B shall enter into force on 1 October 2001.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1939	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from President Svein Ludvigsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the first and second sentences of the fourth paragraph of Section 21 shall be replaced by the following:The proceedings of the Committee shall be conducted for closed doors. If deemed appropriate, the Committee may, acting by a normal majority, decide that the consultation shall take place in whole or in part in respect of open doors.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e1955	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the members of the Presidency Hans J. Røsjorde, Odd Holten and Jorunn Ringstad. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors, the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 21 shall be replaced by the following: Hearings shall be held and a request for a hearing shall be made at the request of at least 1/3 of the members of the Committee.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the last sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 21 shall be replaced by the following: As far as possible, open hearings should be avoided when there is a meeting of the Stortinget or its departments.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Rules of Procedure for open hearings, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: According to Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure, 1/3 of the members of the Committee may require a hearing to be held on a control matter and require the Committee to invite certain persons to meet.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e2127	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward three proposals on behalf of Mr Røsjorde, Member of the Presidency. The suggestions are included in the setting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3 of President Hans J. Røsjorde: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘II C is replaced by the following:Members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge receive the following annual remuneration for representation costs: President of the Stortinge. The Vice President of the Grand Duchy receives 2/3, and the other members of the Presidency receive 1/3 of the President's remuneration. The Chair of the Trade Union Committees receives the same remuneration as the Vice President of the Storting. Vice-Chairs of the Trade Union Committees receive the same remuneration as the other members of the Presidency. Remunerations shall be regulated annually according to the Consumer Price Index.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The contribution of a party group shall remain unchanged, even if one or more representatives leave the group.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The rules for the coverage of the current service requirements of the EEAS representatives shall continue to apply.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e2459	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left 2 and 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The amount of the land in the population’s interest is set at NOK 53,470 per person. 1 May 2001.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Objectives:Crons626 000resources, civil,expenditure allocation, increased by 42 000 000 from NOK 710 000664Retirement grant, increased by 11 000 000 from kr 185 000 to kr 196 000 000 from kr 1 637 000 000 from kr 4 9 000 000 from kr 7 9 000 000 from kr 752 000 000664Retirement grant, increased by 11 000 000 from kr 1 8 6 000 000 from kr kr from kr kr 4 4 6 37 000 from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkr from krkrb from krkrb from krkrb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb from krb froms from krb froms froms froms froms from krb froms from krb froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms froms from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e2913	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government’s request in the future social security settlements is that, when social security is fully developed in 2007, full earnings should be 2/3 of the salary, in line with the assumptions of the population’s introduction in 1967.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3379	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3412	Here, too, the Workers' Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3456	There is a vote on the proposal by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 29 May 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to locate the new court administration of Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3473	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess a change in the penal code, in order to make it possible for unpredictable offenders who commit clearly socially harmful crimes to be judged more than at present to be subject to mandatory mental health protection or to mandatory care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3488	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2002 to report on the system of sound recording in courts and to make any proposals for a permanent system of sound recording of main proceedings in criminal matters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3503	During the debate, Aud Gaundal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:108 [[2000-2001]] It is first voted on by the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3532	During the debate, two proposals were put forward. It's: Proposal No 1, tabled by Mr Solholm on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and The proposal of the Progress Party is included in the vote, while the proposal of the representatives Stang and Kleppe has been distributed in the Chamber. The proposal by the representatives of Mr L. Stang and Mr Kleppe is as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals resulting in the introduction of a mandatory HIV or AIDS test by all applicants for a residence permit in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3555	Proposal No. 1, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up legislative proposals for mandatory HIV/AIDS testing of people applying for a residence permit in Norway and coming from high-risk countries.’ An alternative is to vote between the proposal of the Progress Party and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3577	President! I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3584	Then the vote was taken by 90 votes to 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3613	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 29 May 2001: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that future changes in the municipal structure shall not include municipalities where the local government, or the residents of the referendum, has opposed the municipal association.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3630	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of Mr Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 29 May 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and will be amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the organisation of a more formal Welcome Ceremony relating to the award of Norwegian citizenship and make proposals to that effect rather than the Stortinget in relation to new changes in the citizenship legislation.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3644	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3-6, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The suggestions are included in the setting. Mr Bastesen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3661	I just want to inform you that the Coastal Party will vote against proposal No. 1 against proposal No 3 against proposal No 6 and against proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox We are voting in favour of the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3666	It is then first voted on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the bulk of the regional policy instruments be incorporated into the allocation frameworks entirely available to municipalities and counties according to agreed plans and local needs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3678	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set out procedures to ensure that the impact on rural policy is addressed as part of the decision-making basis when deciding whether to implement policies in key areas of society.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish an entry in its budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for the development of broadband networks in those areas of the country where the market itself is not strong enough to demand broadband.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3699	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the creation of a separate youth unit in the SND, a Youth Enterprise and District Development Fund.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the end of 2001 to ensure that at least 10 projects are launched to increase the use of bioenergy and waterborne heat.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3720	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an analysis of the impact of ICT developments on the labour market in the districts and of the measures that need to be taken to ensure that the peripheral parts of the country can also participate in the new technology.’ The Labour Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3734	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a plan for the relocation of existing and new government enterprises from Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3755	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3774	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3804	During the debate, Oddvard Nilsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Post Norway BA into a limited liability company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3845	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The project rv 4 is expanded with post-clearance recovery on new trasé rv 4». The Committee had ceased: The cancelation consents to: 1st@item: inlistbox The tolling company is authorised to collect tolls for the implementation of stage 1 of the development of sections of highway 4 in Uppland. Furthermore, the company is responsible for borrowing and managing any loans. The conditions for phase 1 are described by St.prp. [[2000-2001]] No 74 and Innst S. No. 296 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3873	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 3, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a comprehensive transport solution aimed at placing transit traffic outside the centre of Namsos, taking better account of the living environment and intervention, as well as collective solutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3897	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to expand the Namdals project in the Nord-Trøndelag with State funding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3911	Proposal No. 1, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The tolling company is entitled to collect tolls for the partial toll-financed development of the Namdal project in the North Trøndelag, with the exception of Horkbrua fv 434. The terms and conditions are described by St.prp. [[2000-2001]] No 81 and Innst. [[2000-2001]] S. No 297
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3940	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3954	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Mr Aksel Nistad has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3966	This is an explanation of vote. With regard to the Committee's recommendation, I would like to vote on the individual points, because we will vote against points 1 and 2, while voting in favour of paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3971	It will be taken into account. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government will be asked to amend the draft terms of reference and to present a new proposal for a financing plan for E39 Øysand-Thamshavn. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3985	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘E39 Øysand-Thamshamn is being expanded as a OPS project with partial toll financing on new E39 and partly through annual government budget appropriations.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e3998	I voted wrong! I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e4005	The number of votes 87 against and 18 for the proposal of the Progress Party is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e4020	The President understands it so that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-2.ana.ud1273e4037	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against.
