ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e71	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e76	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e81	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after the 1 to 3 cases have been dealt with on today's map, and then total voting after cases 4 to 8 at the end of today's meeting. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e123	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Here the president will add that there will be two major debates during the day, so he hopes that there won't be so many three-minute speeches. Then it could be late tonight. – The President’s proposal is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e134	I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation in order to make an adjustment within very limited time limits. There are smooth moves in this setting for several points. Let me mention four: Wide agreement on a simpler and more transparent regulatory framework for the workplace for workers. Here is a documented need for a lot more places. The centre party wanted 500 of the 1,750 new posts available in the budget to go to the labour market companies. We haven't got any more on that, but we're very pleased that the committee wanted an escalation plan.State top funding for resource-requiring users. The central party of my state should take 80 pst. Annual survey of the economic development of the local church and the ability of the municipalities to comply with their financial obligations in the municipalproposition.The changes in the income system in relation to the agricultural administration are to be reviewed and a review of the municipalproposition for 2003. I'm very pleased that there will be a new round of this most unfair change. Unfortunately, there is every cause for concern about the order of pages in this setting. Where is it that respect for those who see the possibilities in District Norway – all those who use the resources, which provide the basis for building and new activities, and which in practice show that there is a link between a good district policy and a good urban policy? While Bondevik I continued to target an offensive against the districts – for the benefit of the city and country – Bondevik II where Stoltenberg escaped. The new government shows zero understanding of the need for regional policy organisation: dramatic cut in SND, zeroing of municipal food funds, the water supply programme and the compensation of the 14 municipalities that have been paid an unpaid higher employer fee. It is good that the government is busy with simplification, but there must be a better way to simplify than to destroy good schemes that have demonstrably contributed to a number of new jobs. The centre party will return resources to all communities that provide resources, e.g. stream, fish and agricultural products, to the community. Our alternative involves a holistic and offensive effort on district policy to use the resources in the districts and slow down the centralisation of knowledge, housing and capital. We want to give people real freedom of choice in relation to housing. Increased resources need to be deployed in transport, industrial development, municipal well-being, broadband and youth action. There is also a great need to think about new developments in relation to the relocation of state jobs and how to reduce distance disadvantages for businesses and people in the districts. The centre party will increase the licenses to regional development by 300 million. kr in relation to the government of Stoltenberg’s budget and with 650 million. kr in relation to its budget. In addition, we want to bring back the cuts made by the SND Cooperation Agency. In addition, we will increase the rewards of local industrial and industrial funds and create a new entry for youth action in the districts. We ask that every year an overview of the geographical distribution of government investment be provided, and we suggest it. The centre party deeply regrets that we have not been closed in securing more funds for the municipalities next year. The Government follows up the Labour Party's frames. The greatest highlight of all times is an expression that has been used both this year and last year. Yes, there should be no increase in resources, with old age plans and psychiatry plans and other new tasks. But the increment is far from what the Center Party thinks is necessary. KS has said that the municipalities need 7 billion kroner for the rest of the year and next year. Then the pension costs are taken into account. We have a separate document number. Eight proposals on the extra costs this year, and keep us going to the government coming back with a review of the pension costs next year. The whole image does not show up when you do like the Labour Party and the Right and only look at the growth of income in the municipal sector and not at the growth of expenditure. Storing and government have given municipalities and municipalities new tasks over the last few years, without money being followed. It's a disclaimer if we blame the municipalities and county councils for not getting the services they require. This is done in areas that are very important for many people: a dignified care for the elderly, organized education for children with special needs, sufficient teaching places in the secondary school and in hospital cows, which are no longer the county's responsibility when the state is now to take over hospitals. There will be no growth at all if an estimate is based on the 2001 estimate. The ministry says in a letter to the Stortinget that it will cost $1 billion just to meet the needs of natural changes in the population, like several school classes, several care places for older osbs. In addition, we know that the local authorities' costs only to achieve the goal of reducing parental benefit in kindergarten to NOK 1500 in 2005 are SEK 330 million. kr per year. In our alternative budget, we will increase the free income of the municipalities by approximately NOK 2.4 billion. Then we take reduced parental payments in kindergartens and free space in kindergarten and SFO to parents who are recipients of social assistance over a long period of time. We're increasing the rate of social assistance, and we're keeping child welfare out of the way by calculating economic social assistance. We think it is a gross breach of trust to remove the supply of water and the compensation that the 14 municipalities had every reason to believe they got. The free income of county councils is increased by 690 million. kr in our alternative budget. Of that, 100 million goes into it. SEK for public transport in counties and 47 million. kr to keep up the efforts for apprentices. In addition, we keep up with the landlines in the continuing school with fresh means. We're going to re-examine the question of deleting municipal debt. Of course, this must be done according to objective criteria, so that not the individual municipality's debt is determined by how much money the municipality receives. We think it's as important to put the search light on the situation in the municipalities as to erase debt to the Gardermoban. A first step would be to recognise that there is currently a imbalance between tasks and resources. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV agree on a note asking for review and action. It's bad that the government's party can't even be on a note about it. The center party thinks the senior plan must have a worthy end. Many municipalities have kept to promises of funds from Stortinget. More people are in an unsustainable situation if the Storting is not already giving a clear signal that the elderly plan should be passed on. Of course, the government has to come back with a final plan for a decent end to the old age plan. There are a lot of municipalities that have now worked to get the care homes in place first – they were the easiest to build – and then it's their turn. They have plans developed in consultation with the House Bank, the county council and the county board. They need to be given a clear signal of success and to be sure that offers and agreements that have been concluded can be maintained – because of our proposal today. There have been major changes in the income system since 1997, not least as a result of the tapering down of the loss compensation. We believe that it is very important to get an overview of the redistribution between municipalities resulting from changes in the income system from 1997 to the agreed budget for 2002. We also propose that municipalities, as part of larger local self-government, should be able to print taxes themselves for periods where they have special local priorities, as a test scheme. Then it's bad to experience the fanfare Right and Christian People's Party has led when it comes to the state takeover of the hospitals and given between the state and the county councils – from the proposal that the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV stood around in the spring, and to what it's all about so far. The working party has had the courage to admit that it has failed. They agree with the Centre Party and SV on a proposal that will meet the county municipalities. It applies both in this setting and in a separate Document No. Eight proposals. We will, from the Central Party's point of view, strongly insist on the House Bank as the state's most important traveler in social housing policy. We believe that the loan frame must be NOK 15 billion in 2002, and we would strongly warn against turning the House Bank into a bank for first-time starters. That's what I'm going to come back to in a private article. Finally, let me say that it is politically gratifying that the Labour Party has strengthened the regional and distribution profile. Dessmore tragic is the fact that the Christian People's Party is not to be recognized in relation to the program they went into. Then I have to make a mistake in the settings. This applies to page 71, second column, where there is now a note from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on the accession practices of certain oil companies. That note shall also be included in the Progress Party. later posts by Per Sandberg, page 666. SV is not responsible for a tribute to the Center Party's proposal for commercial gardens on page 61. That's what I think we have to stand for. I would like to mention the suggestions made by the Centre Party in the configuration dialog.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e201	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e206	The central party has a proposal in its proposal to facilitate the testing of freer local taxpayers, so that municipalities can increase the tax locally for periods of time. My question to the representative is: will it not be possible for such a system to be negative for small municipalities with few inhabitants, and that this could lead to the payment of higher taxes in these municipalities than in a municipality that has, for example, a municipality. a district center with many inhabitants? And wouldn't this, if it were implemented, lead people to move from the small districts to the districts? So to another point: the Central Party and the Workers' Party are to include earmarked grants in the framework, because it gives the municipalities power, and it gives greater freedom to the local politicians. However, with regard to the inclusion of earmarked grants for the agricultural offices, a majority of the committee says that there is reason to look at how this turns out once again, and wants the government to come back with it. The centre party agrees with that, too. Nevertheless, the Centre Party says in its own note that they will have the same earmarked grant as before. Does the representative not agree that it becomes a bit strange that first you are to remove the designation and put it into the framework of giving local politicians more freedom and greater power, but when it comes to the individual municipality, are you suddenly opposed? What kind of signals does the Storting actually send out?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e213	It is surprising, but equally gratifying, that the Labour Party today shows care for the smallest municipalities. There's a long way between such beads as the one from Signe Eye now at that point, because it's really so that the Workers' Party and the Right are together. The Labour Party and the Government have no different frames now when it concerns the local economy. If this is a signal that the Workers' Party now realizes that they have to repress their giant to the councillor, Solberg, after redistributing the income system for the benefit of the big cities, it is a happy signal. For the Central Party, we want frameworks that are consistent with the tasks to be carried out by municipalities, both for the largest municipalities, which have too little funds open to us today, and for the smaller municipalities. We didn't go to better schools only in the big cities. Then we will make it possible for municipalities, both large and small – but we realize that it is most relevant in the smallest municipalities – to invite to a joint effort between them. It can be a cultural building; there may be other measures to be taken on the legs. I actually thought that arguing for such a local effort, a tax owner for periods, has a lot more to do than saying no to it. In addition, it is important to ensure local freedom of action and to ensure objective criteria in the income system, but not in such a way that, after this conversion, municipalities that have virtually no agriculture will receive several million more dollars, while open agricultural municipalities will lose 70-80 pst. of the tips they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e222	The centre party writes in its comments that the lot is occupied by fair distribution. It wants the lot to be achieved by extensive use of oil money and very high taxes. With regard to the economic policy of the Central Party, it is striking how much better advice the Central Party has received since they came out of the Government Offices. Has the Central Party changed its view after the break of the central government and their resignation from the government offices in terms of economic policy? In the forthcoming municipal bill, the government will take into account the challenges of the big cities, among others. with regard to the intoxication and psychiatry. Is this a conversion of the Center Party going to support? So finally, district policy: the problem of the Central Party's district effort is that it is based on selective measures and get improvements in general framework conditions, including: to the industry in the districts. The air passenger charge is such an example. How can the so-called district party of the Senterpartie go against the removal of the air passenger charge when those who are hit hardest by the charge are just businesses in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e231	I can confirm that the Center Party is engaged in fair distribution. We are committed to maintaining a Community sector that ensures equivalent supply, the same as a cage in that country, and independently of the personal economy. When the Central Party was in government, we were in fact able – even in the difficult year 1998, when a budget was to be created for 1999 – to strengthen the local economy. In addition, we were committed to establishing the link between tasks and means, and took the initiative in a consultation system with KS, which changing governments have now gone further and which we think should be made compulsory. I look forward to the overview that will come when it comes to the big cities and their situation, but I have recorded that there are professionals who warn very strongly against believing that one can commit both drugs and psychiatry as own criteria. I think an own big city bill would be a variant that could meet this. We're going to be open and constructive in what may come from the Solberg Council in that area, but on one condition: we are deeply disunity in what is so far the flag of this government, and which unfortunately has also received support from the Christian People's Party, and which assumes that one should take from the smaller municipalities and give to the large ones, because we actually expect that all municipalities today have too many tasks in relation to the funds they have. When it comes to our district policy, we have listened to the district companies and to those who live in the districts, by our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e242	There was nothing new and particularly eye-catching in the post of central party representative Meltveit Kleppa – perhaps just that she boasts of the Workers' Party's district policy, because that is not always what they have done in that party. It is now the case that a majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre complain loudly that the proposed framework differs significantly from what is necessary to ensure the main features of the housing pattern in the districts. This lack of regional effort is apparently so bad that it's only the Progress Party that can think of supporting something like this, we hear from the Center Party. But where in the world did they get this? First of all, very well known, there is no country in the world that from now on spends as much financial resources on district policy as Norway does. The cuts referred to here are so modest that they can be counted in terms of pro-miles and percentages in the larger context. Is it so that the representative Kleppa believes that Norwegian districts are so little robust that they dove in some highly marginal reductions in some areas – cf. The reductions that we're talking about here? One such perception of reality is incomprehensible, and I would like to know how it might be that the settlement in District Norway is threatened by just cutting some percentages and pro-miles in some areas. There are no radical changes to what the Stoltenberg government proposed, so if it's so bad, it must have been about the proposals that just came from the Stoltenberg government. [[The President clubs.]] That's where the foundation was.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e251	The president normally allows the representatives to complete the sentence when you get a little bit out of speaking time, but when you take the initiative and start again, it's time to go clubbing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e254	I can't remember that in my post I showed some particular attention in relation to what the Progress Party supports and does not support. I could, if I had had better time, give credit to the Progress Party because they are some of the SV and the Center Party when it comes to needs-tested Norwegian training for immigrants, and because they support us in the view that single minor asylum seekers should listen to child protection, and that institutions receiving this group should also have the status of a child protection institution. I could also say that there's probably a happy point in this setting, and that's that there are at least some parties that stand by what they've said before. Among them, both the Progress Party and the Center Party are recognisable before and after the choice. But when it comes to district policy, the point from the Center Party is not that Norwegian districts are going down. For us, 350 million is worth. In rural areas, there is a great deal of action, for we know that only the municipal food funds alone, with their 30,000 per cent. work, has contributed to several thousand new jobs. So the point isn't that they're going down, but we think it's a big mistake of the Norwegian big thing not to make even more provision for the return of funds to the communities that stand for difficult resources to the big community. We believe that this is an advantage for both the city and the country. And the Labour Party got one of my only thanks's words, and that's because they've actually tightened the district and distribution profile, and I'm firm on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e264	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e267	The new government has announced a new political course for Norway. Few areas have shown such a dramatic shift as district policy and housing policy. The size of the conversion is such that the majority of the municipal committee today recommends that the Storting refuse to distribute the framework set up by the government parties and the Progress Party. When traveling around Norway, the diversity of this country, the diversity of living conditions, the diversity of culture and traditions, not only between the big city and rural areas, between the coast and the interior, between the north and the south, but also within the individual areas, from Arendal to Setesdal, yes between neighbouring municipalities such as Alta and Kautokeino. It is this diversity that makes Norway the country it is. This is Norway. When a journey through Norway and through our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, the diversity of rural areas overwhelms. Where there are living settlements in Norway, there is forest in Sweden and Finland. Well cities are bigger, but diversity is smaller. This is not the result of nature and chance. This is the result of political elections, where the political majority in Norway has wanted diversity, wanted to be a living village and a fishing community. It has a price, partly by developing a welfare offer and a transport offer that also reaches those living on the outskirts, even where they are few, and partly by using policy instruments that facilitate job creation and with the basis for housing in the districts. It is the Labour Party and the Centre Parties that have agreed on such a policy, which has ensured the basis for what we know today. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have not had the will to use the necessary instruments – have wanted to weaken what we call district policy. Today they get the majority for the Right with pride calling a change of course. But this diversity also makes Norway rich. We build a lot of our wealth on the exploitation of natural resources – the oil off the coast, the fish in the sea, the trees in the woods, the hydropower in the mountains, the natural experiences in the countryside, the resources in the districts. There is therefore no contradiction between a good rural policy and a good economic policy. When the state through the SND supports the development of the Nordkaplata River, we strengthen the basis for activity and settlement in the neighbourhood. But at the same time, we are strengthening the basis of a travel product that triggers more than $1 billion in earnings. When the state through the SND supports the development of the fishing fleet and the fishing industry, we strengthen the settlement where the fish live, where the fish are delivered and the fish are processed. But at the same time, we're strengthening the export income base of about 30 billion dollars per year. years. Without the use of resources in the districts, we also have no basis for commercial and administrative centres. Without the surrounding area, it's less to be a city for. Therefore, there is no contradiction between a good urban policy and a good rural policy. The city and the surrounding area have different roles in national value creation. We need the fishing activity in Havøysund. But people in Havøysund also need a centre that provides a wider range of trade and services. They can be found in the region centre Hammerfest. Finnland people need access to more specialised services. We'll find that in Tromsø. We need coordinated national offers. We'll find that in the capital. Havøysund, Hammerfest, Tromsø and Oslo have different roles, but all are necessary if Norway is to be as Norway is, and if we are to exploit the natural resources on which we build our wealth. But banks do not have as much collateral for secondary value either of dwellings or of commercial buildings in Havøysund as in Majorstua. The size of the large markets is greater. The climate and distances make establishment less attractive. That is why we need tools to compensate for some disadvantages, and on the one hand it makes establishing ourselves more attractive, because we want the whole country in use. And we want there to be equivalent living conditions in all parts of the country. That is why we have regional policy instruments. That's why we have extra transfers to the municipalities in the districts, and especially in the north. That is why we have personal instruments. Despite that, we see a continuing decline in the population that is greater the farther north we come, and we see persistently higher unemployment. This does not indicate that today's instruments are too strong. So we have to keep asking how we can do better. We need to develop robust labour, housing and service regions where the population can find the most comprehensive range of services that meet their needs and needs. We need to build up under a profitable and competitive business in all parts of the country. Then we have to build on the advantages that exist in each region. We have to recognize that knowledge means more and more. Then we have to build a strong education offer. We need to strengthen research and, in particular, the dissemination of research to the business community in the districts. We need to develop a good regional value creation environment in which the network between enterprises in the region and enterprises outside and the network between enterprises, competences and authorities is strengthened. We need to reduce distance constraints by using new technologies, using the new technological possibilities to break down distance barriers, not to centralize. We need to have a conscious state localization policy where we're just using the possibilities of new technology. All new state activities must be excluded from Oslo, unless quite specific conditions exist, as the government of Stoltenberg drew up. We must have a strong public welfare offer that provides equivalent offers in all parts of the country. And, not least, we need to strengthen creativity, but also identity and belonging through an active local cultural life. In dealing with the enlargement message on regional and regional policy in our country, there was a clear majority in the UK for such an active district policy, for the active use of district policy instruments. Yes, the representatives of the centre parties would go further. Both the Christian People's Party and the Central Party saw the need for an 'extraordinary effort to achieve the main objectives of regional and regional policy in the coming period'. This was also the common basis on which the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre went to elections, asked for government power to be given – increased investment in regional policy instruments. As in the past, only the Right and Advance Party had a different vision. They didn't believe in public subsidies. They believed more in the reduction of tax and tax levels. The Labour Party Government presented a policy based on the majority's commitment. The Bondevik government presents a policy based on the minority – the Right Party and the Advance Party – of a lack of commitment. They cut the regional policy instruments by 350 million. kr. But it's not just that. Bondevik's draft budget is a systematic weakening and systematic conversion of Norwegian district policy. The instruments on which the previous Bondevik government has invested heavily are now proposed to be phased out altogether. The appropriations allocated to local food funds are entirely cut. The appropriations for regional coordination decisions are cut entirely. Appropriations for water supply programmes are proposed by the Government as a whole. The appropriations for food and district measures in the SND are cut so heavily that SND can hardly be continued in its current form. Appropriations from the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Fisheries for development programmes of major importance for industrial development in the districts, including: for the development of the marine sector, cut entirely. The appropriations for the agricultural agreement will be cut by 300 million. kr before the start of negotiations. The freckles in the districts are completely cut. That means that the price of petrol and diesel increases by up to 50 cents. The price of fruit and vegetables increases by up to SEK 1.25, the price of milk with up to 20 ears. This is a violation of the district policy for which it has so far been a majority in the United Kingdom. It is a district policy that until now has only had the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party – a policy that the Right now calls a new course, after having received a majority with the support of the Christian People's Party. But it is not just in the field of district policy that we are seeing a new course. We also see that in housing policy. Until autumn, the Labour Party, the Centre Parties and the SV have been united to look at the House Bank as our main instrument for achieving general housing policy objectives – an instrument for ensuring sufficient new construction and stable new construction, including in times of decline, an instrument for providing reasonable housing funding to all, irrespective of income, a good housing funding even in districts where the secondary market is uncertain, an instrument for the construction of nights and high-quality housing. Now, the Bondevik government is going to turn the House Bank into a bank for young people and families with lasting financial problems. This means that the incentive to keep up the level of housing is weakened. This, in turn, means increasing pressure on prices, including for young people. And that means more expensive mortgages in the districts. As the bank manager in Berlevåg said, there is more security in a mobile caravan than in a dwelling with a falling second-hand value. Once again we see that what was just the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy is now getting a majority by the Christian People's Party supporting such a policy. The Bondevik government cuts NOK 2 billion in the Husbanken's loan framework in relation to the Stoltenberg government's proposal. The housing allowance is weakened in relation to the Stoltenberg government's proposal and is 77 million. kr less than that proposed by the Workers' Party. We also propose to extend the housing support scheme, so that families with children living in naked dwellings, who have high housing costs, can receive housing support, even if the housing is not funded by the House Bank. The government parties are against it. In this way, we see that the new government means a new course for Norway – a course in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e335	It was interesting to hear the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. The whole introductory part of his contribution was that the Workers' Party has been with the Centre parties in a very offensive district policy, and what it has contained for both 10 and 15 and 20 years. And then he ended that sequence of saying that now we have to do something else. What's interesting about challenging the Workers' Party and Schjøtt-Pedersen is that now we're experiencing uprisings in the districts. Never have we seen so much deportation from the districts. Never have we seen so little economic development and the creation of new jobs in the districts. This is a result of the fact that the Workers' Party has co-existed with the Centre Parties in an offensive district policy. Then Schjøtt-Pedersen talks about having living settlements and diversity in the municipalities. Then my question is: is it the diversity that Schjøtt-Pedersen points to, that there are great differences between municipalities – that the inhabitants of one municipality receive a miserable offer, while the inhabitants of other municipalities receive a very good offer? Is that the diversity of the Workers' Party and the Schjött-Pedersen point out? Then I'll just fix one thing. It's a majority in the committee, says Schjøtt-Pedersen. But it's going to be fun to see today whether the same majority exists here in the hall. We hope and believe that it might be a little bit different. So I'm going to challenge Schjøtt-Pedersen on one thing, and it's a little bit of a little bit of a stretch. We removed it for a little while, because the Competition Authority went in and said that this freight cancelling had no impact at all. Does Schjøtt-Pedersen share the view of the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e348	I'm going to give the representative Sandberg right in one thing: there's a riot in the districts. It's been quite a number of years since we've seen such commitment to the budgetary treatment in Stortinget as what we see now, and partly from unexpected levels. The well-known manager and right-hand man Jens Petter Ekorenes says in the Sunnmørspost: ‘The government’s proposal to cut SND’s appropriations sharply is a short and well-off disaster.’ He further states: ‘I fear that this is only the beginning of a rage of SND as a driving force in the economic development of rural areas’. Right-wing rapporteurs in my own country, Finnmark, are slaughtering the proposal to remove the anti-fashion, and believe that it is completely unreasonable to remove subsidies that ensure as much equal prices as possible across the country. I mean, it's really important to have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little I note that the rapporteurs in the Eastern region of East-Agder, who are not exactly the workers' party rapporteurs all, are sending letters to the Municipal Committee, to the Business Committee, to the Finance Committee, where they say they will express great concern at the lack of regional policy the Government proposes through its proposal for a State budget. And so we can continue from state to state. That, of course, involves two things. Firstly, it means that there is a deep concern about the effects of the cuts proposed in this budget. But it also has a deep concern among the rural population about the change in line and the change in course that this budget represents, and about the lack of willingness to maintain the rural policy that we have now had, which this budget represents. And I fully share that concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e369	SV, the Center Party and the Working Party agree very much in this setting. On some points, it seems that the Workers' Party has gained a little new realism in relation to what is happening in practice in Municipality-Norway. Schjött-Pedersen used his contribution to talk the most about district policy, and then I want to take up one tool that I believe the Workers' Party has so far underestimated. It's school, education and research. If there's something that's a nutritionist, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, And then it's natural to link it to the hospital settlement, which the Workers' Party and the Advance Party agreed in ours. Out of the hospital settlement, the county councils, which would then sit and realize perhaps the most important district developer, namely high school, the great loser. Yesterday, there was a NIBR report that shows that there is a deficit of NOK 2 billion in county municipalities, and I don't know if there's anyone here who's trying to imagine how to cut NOK 2 billion in high school and public transport for next year. Now the government provided Stoltenberg with a budget in the autumn where this had not been taken into account. In the course of the process, the Workers' Party has now discovered the disastrous effect this hospital settlement will have on high school, where the high school really becomes the huge school loser, which will be disastrous for the districts in the future. How are the students going to get education? How are all the adults who need education going to get it? And then my question to the Arbeiderpartiet and Schjøtt-Pedersen is: coverage of the deficits in the hospital budgets is perhaps the most important factor in what is missing now. Will the Workers' Party then address the actual deficit in the county municipalities, or are we still there that this is just a flag of principle and not money? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President clubs heavily]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e380	I record that the president hasn't forgotten the arts from his time as a building worker. Let me first grasp what Andersen says about the Workers' Party having a «new realism». The Labour Party has had this realism all along, but I believe that the budgetary treatment we are now seeing illustrates the differences in Norwegian policy much better than what we have seen in the past – the differences where the Workers' Party and the traditional centre, now the Centre/SV, have been united on an active district policy, and where on the other hand there has been a less active district policy, while today we are clearly getting a glimpse of the effects of the different directions represented by the Workers' Party and the Right here, and this also makes the differences clear. With regard to the situation in the counties, it also provided the basis for concern in the Labour Party Government. Meetings include: measures in relation to regional hospitals and counties. But at the same time, it is important to point out that recent reports on the development of the deficit in the state municipalities that are alarming, not least the deficit in 2001, have revealed that several county municipalities have difficult adjustments to the economy after the transfer of hospitals to the state. It is such that any deficits from hospital operations, which must be covered by county councils after the state has assumed responsibility for hospitals, could have negative effects, among others. for the training sector, as pointed out by the representative. There is also a background for the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, to propose that the Government, as soon as possible, and at the latest in the revised national budget, submit proposals for a final settlement, and we also promote proposals in today's vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e389	There is a great deal of uncertainty about the municipal budget for next year, although everyone is of the opinion that the whole country should be put into operation. But what surprises me most is that the Labour Party, the largest party in the country, does not accept that the Storting has adopted the budget framework, by refusing to allocate funds that are actually at risk. This is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, a very serious and, in fact, a bomb under the Financial Regulation. Of course, the labor party's hold will create great difficulties for all minority governments. Does the recent resignation of the Minister of Finance not see that this would be detrimental to the budgetary arrangements that the Labour Party was just so eager to put in place? So the question is whether the Labour Party thinks that it's OK that everyone who's disagreed in a budget and a framework, for the future should act like the Labour Party now does.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e396	The Labour Party takes a serious view that we do not find any basis for proposing the disposal of the budget framework. It's not something we do with a light heart, partly because we think it's a measure that we use in special situations, and partly because of the basis that we've had to draw such a conclusion. The reason why we have had to draw such a conclusion is that the framework that the Christian People's Party has pushed through in the Stortingen by a cabinet question is a framework that does not allow us to pursue the active district policy that we believe is necessary. There is a framework that does not allow the active housing policy that we believe is necessary. It is a framework that does not allow the active labour market policy that we believe is necessary. It is a framework that does not allow the active policies to be pursued in relation to economically disadvantaged groups that we believe are necessary. This is a framework which has only been able to get a majority in this Chamber because the Christian People's Party has fundamentally changed its view of both district policy and housing policy, and which can only be supported by the Progress Party. The Labour Party, as well as the Centre Party, has, during the budgetary process, extended an open hand to the Government with a view to assessing solutions to the budgetary situation in the Stortinget. Such a solution could never involve the type of framework at the disposal of the Municipal Committee in this area. We must therefore note that this is a framework which can only have a majority with the Progress Party. It is a framework that involves a policy that only gets a majority because the Christian People's Party has fundamentally changed its view of what was represented in the treatment of the district notification and other important welfare policy documents, to support what was previously the views of the minority, the Right and the Progressive Party. That's what we have to take the consequences of. Then it's the government parties and the Progress Party that have to find the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e409	In my view, the government's proposal for the 2002 municipal budget is a good platform for the municipal sector to solve important welfare tasks. The proposal, recommended by the majority of the municipal committee, means that the municipal sector will receive a real growth of DKK 3.8 billion next year. From the Right, we are pleased and pleased that the parties of government, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, can stand together with the Progress Party on the main lines of the Government's arrangement for the municipal sector. We're also happy that through re-priorities, we're going to add up to $45 million. kr has been able to sharpen important areas of activity in the budget. A central part of this proposal is 20 million. kr to projects relating to improved water supply, in particular projects that are commercially justified will be prioritised. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus within the Committee, albeit with a slightly different impact, that the preventive fire protection work should be reinforced by increasing the allocation of both the Norwegian Fire School and Norwegian Fire Protection Association. On the right, we will also stress the importance of maintaining the tightness of the overall draft budget of the Cooperation Government. This could be a good contribution to a decline in interest rates in this country. Reduced interest rates could really be a good contribution to a better local economy, and then it might be worth mentioning that with a total debt in the local government sector of DKK 80 billion, an interest rate reduction of, for example, one per cent provides 800 million additional municipal funds to solve important welfare issues. Another important contribution to improving the administrative space will be the work of the Government to establish a VAT-neutral system, which equates its own service production, the purchase of services from other municipalities and the purchase of services from private service producers. The aim here is to stimulate municipalities to find the best solutions, solutions that will give citizens the best return for the tax credits. It is in a way totally wrong for municipalities that see good opportunities to work together to solve tasks, to put together valuable skills and to use scarce resources for the benefit of citizens, to be penalised at large additional costs because they choose to buy the service from the neighbouring municipality. Strong incentives and incentives for such cooperation between municipalities will clearly help to reduce the fear of unwanted municipality associations among the inhabitants of many Norwegian municipalities. Access, identity and proximity are important advantages for many smaller and medium-sized municipalities, but they need to work together even better than they do today. On the right, we are concerned that citizens' expectations of good welfare services produced within a sound economic framework require innovation, willingness to move and the ability to look across traditional borders. I have great expectations that the government will now speed up the conversion work. This means continuing work on the income system and processing the breakdown of tasks. This means that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to municipalities and county municipalities and the means allocated to them to carry them out. It is also necessary to consider further measures to stimulate and motivate more extensive and committed cooperation. Better communications and new technologies provide opportunities we didn't have a few years ago. My claim is that most people are not as busy with who is doing the tasks as some politicians are. On the other hand, people are most concerned about what services are offered, what quality the service has and at what price it is at. Much of the challenge lies in the transformation that is now taking place in the municipal sector. Many municipalities throughout the country have shown great willingness to change and the ability to try new and untraditional solutions. This will be absolutely essential to make the resources available to solve the welfare tasks we expect the municipalities to be responsible for in the coming years. Then we must also dare to do things in new ways. As I said, the present proposal for a municipal budget is a good platform for new drive in the modernisation of the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e426	I note that the representative Hogsnes talks a lot and relatively generally about service provision. What he did not mention in a word was a relatively sensational proposal from the Government of Bondevik not to grant permission to the entire community food fund, nor to allow a crown for regional coordination measures. In the budgetary position that we are now discussing, I see that the Government Party only notes that there are no government proposals on these two areas, but at all, to argue for what is the Government's view. I have noted that there are strong reactions to the government's omission of these important points, from many local politicians, including from many Right-wing people, who are unintelligible and stated that the Government of Bondevik is throwing waste at the necessary means to stimulate, to facilitate and to speed up innovation. On 21 November, the National Council of State of Solberg stated that regional coordination measures ‘contribute only to increased bureaucracy’. Then my question becomes to the representative Hogsnes: does the representative share Hogsnes' views with the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, or does the representative have other motives for the dramatic removal of the promises proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e435	I agree with the fact that the conversion of a good part of the instruments used in district policy is very necessary. It is a fact that we are in some areas on schemes that require a lot of administration, and where questions can rightly be asked about what we get left for what we put in – just as fully as there are areas that work well. I agree with the Council of State that what the Government is doing is trying to improve the areas where good enough results have not been seen, to get a set-up that evaluates the efforts it has put in, and then to continue with the areas where you have positive experiences. I would also like to stress that I am one of those who have greater faith in positive instruments, that we are putting in incentives where you get lower taxes, where you get lower taxes, where you get lower interest rates, and where we are at all creating conditions for a profitable business even in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e442	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes from the Right made an excellent contribution that I could have liked to have made myself. In several areas, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have similar political views. It also came out well in the posts of the representative. It concerns economic policy, taxes and charges, in the case of district policy, in the case of the county, and also in the case of competition policy. We all know that with the majority present in the Norwegian Grand Prix today, there are great opportunities to carry out reforms in the public administration à let them be the representatives of Hogsnes. Right, I would say, has received two excellent government councils in Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman and Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Erna Solberg. These are central to reforming the public sector. Competition policy was a central theme of the contributions of the representative, Mr Hogsnes, and it is a key element in the reform of the public sector. The public welfare monopoly needs to be renewed through increased competition from private actors in the provision of publicly funded welfare services such as school, health, care for the elderly, etc. Therefore, all obstacles to free competition between private and public operators in the welfare market must be removed as soon as possible. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 9, to make the VAT compensation scheme general. The representative stated that VAT neutrality was important to put in place. My question is therefore to the representative: Will the Right support proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party, to make the VAT compensation scheme general?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e453	I should first of all like to thank Mr Andersen for his good support for my speech and at the same time reassure him that the Right should seriously consider supporting proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox This is clearly in line with what we ourselves have as a goal, also based on what I stated in my article on that matter. I think it's important to stress once again that we really believe that new grips are necessary. This was confirmed earlier today by the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who admitted that some of the tools used have not worked. Then we don't have to do more of the same. We must then dare to try new instruments. And I belong to those who believe in healthy competition exposure. It's for the benefit of consumers. That's why the government is now taking important steps to create a VAT-neutral system, and then we'll see how fast we can get that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e460	We in SV, together with a bunch of common people across the country, think that municipalities have far too little money to run school, home help and other important societal tasks for. But the Right and Christian People's Party's municipalities have more than enough. That's why they write in the setting that they ‘refers to the latest report of the Technical Calculation Committee for the Municipal and Municipal Economy of November 2001 which states that the development of the local economy is pointing towards stabilisation and improvement’. But that's not what it says at all. The opposite is true: ‘The sample considers net operating surplus to be the primary indicator of the financial balance sheet of the local government sector. The sample is concerned about the weak development of the operating results in recent years. This applies in particular to the counties and the larger municipalities. Furthermore, the development of gross operating surplus is significantly weaker than the development of net operating surplus and net interest and debit costs have been reduced while the net debt has increased.» Don't Right and Christian People's Party understand what's here? Or do they choose to read the Technical Calculation Committee that the Fanden reads the Bible to try to sneak away from a miserable municipal budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e475	I have a relatively fresh past as a municipal politician, so I'm well acquainted with the rhetoric that municipal politicians all over the country are now running. And I don't think anyone will claim that there are so many municipalities that have more than enough money; I don't think any Norwegian municipality will claim that. The report that the representative Holmås refers to, we can well in a parentheses say is taken from the last period of the Stoltenberg government. I would say that with the current budget, the situation is getting a little better. But I think we should quickly agree that it is not good enough. That means we don't have to have ideological barriers to venture to try new grips. That is why we use words like exposure to competition, which is why we are working intensively to achieve value added tax neutrality, which allows municipalities to try new solutions and cooperate to reduce costs and increase the value of the services they provide to their citizens, regardless of whether they live in small, medium-sized or large municipalities. Each citizen is important. However, it requires us on the other side of the table that we make it possible for the municipalities to operate well. And then it's not enough just to spend more and more money. We have to be able to make demands, and that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e483	There is no doubt that the Progress Party wants a radical change in the income system for the municipalities, which of course also involves a significant change in the distribution of responsibilities between the individual administrative units – or let me try to put it this way: simply placement of responsibility. There can be no doubt that the situation in the municipalities is characterised by different forms of liability powdering. The municipalities are indebted to the state, the state is indebted to the municipalities, and the county is in the middle of it. When the schools are laid down, when the elderly do not have a place of care or a nursing home, no one acknowledges that they are making any mistakes. It must be allowed to point out that the municipalities may have given priority to some of their faults, while pointing out that the State has adopted reforms without the provision of sufficient funds to the municipalities. The point is that the whole of the public sector needs to be reformed: how to make use of revenue in such a way that a person gets the best possible care for the elderly, the best possible health care, the best possible school and the best possible infrastructure for the quality he wants to get out of each crown. The party of progress is taking this seriously. That is why, through our budget, we are making new ideas and ideas about how to achieve these goals, not least the goal of an equal offer from the public, regardless of which municipality you have to live in. Today's system has a clear picture of different offers between municipalities. Much is due to different grants, but differences in tax and tax pressures are also a contributing cause. I think it's alarming when the average income for the municipalities in Østfold is NOK 19 200 per year. the population, while in Finnmark there is NOK 10 000 more. There are conditions that everyone should take inwards. The actual conditions are that the municipalities in North Norway have 25 pst. more municipal services per built-in than municipalities, for example, in Akershus. Municipalities with less than 25 000 inhabitants have over 30 pst. higher income than municipalities with more than 20 000 inhabitants. Now, of course, it is difficult to predict whether some of these differences come from the priorities of each municipality. But anyway, here's the crucial situation. The differences are enormous, and then substantial changes have to be made. We are quite familiar with the word alien fear. I think we in the public sector are now going to use the word change fear, because that is what the problem is. When you propose small or large changes in the public sector, we get reactions. But what's our problem at Stortinget is to make the right grips independent of the different hylecrops around. I can't help mentioning the county council. I think it is simply a shame to continue this administrative phase. As stated in the Fädrelandsvennen on 23 November: ‘The county has now become a real problem child in Norwegian policy.’ The party of progress is now the only party that is clearly in proportion to defeating the county. Right folds, and the block of trailers of the Working Party does not dare. It was also stated in the fatherland friend: ‘Now, however, it is urgent to clarify the fate of this level of management, which after the New Year is the key to work tasks.’ We cannot continue to treat the county as a caste ball. Now certainty has to be created. The certainty is that we must now give the signals that the county municipality will be brought down as early as 2003. Let the municipalities and the state take over the few tasks that are back, stop talking about superstates and regional states and give clear signals now. It takes a lot of resources to convert into the new county. I must also be allowed to say that I was wondering once about the agenda of the employees' representatives in the public administration. Davidsen and the Kommunebundet – KS too – are the main enemy of the employees. That's my claim. The level of activity in municipalities is now so high that many municipalities are actually technically bankrupt. When should they also take full responsibility? When can we expect a sober dialogue between the Municipal Council, the KS and the authorities, where they will take care of the employees and the inhabitants in the long term, not just tomorrow. In addition, we have a municipal structure that could have been rationalized considerably. That my own county, Nord-Trøndelag, has 25 administrations, should have led immediately to municipal mergers. Twenty-five administrations! Now we're pretty slow in the North Throne Team, but we don't need 25 administrations to take care of 130,000 Northern Thrones. That's my claim. I'm embarrassed on behalf of the Northern Tribes. In this connection, I would also like to mention that there was a documentary programme on NRK1 Tuesday, «Fire Point», which refers to the municipality of Farum in Denmark. I recommend that all representatives get a copy of that program and use all Christmas and middle Christmas to run that loss over and over again, so that at some point there might be some new thoughts about modernising the public sector. The Farum municipality had 700 administrative posts. Now they're down to 75. Their goal was 40. And the service provision in the municipality is considerably strengthened. I could have said a lot about nutrient development. I note that there has been a crisis mood in the municipalities, a crisis mood created by some rapporteurs and advisers around the whole country, but also by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. And that's of course because of the reductions in SND and municipal nutrition funds. It will be interesting to follow this development and see if this will give the negative results that are now feared by these parties. It will be interesting to come to the budget debate in 2002 and see if these cuts have given the negative results that are signalled here. I don't think so. But I can agree with one thing. It is that the tax and tax reductions in relation to the cuts in the SND and the food funds in my eyes are too small. Because that's what's part of the cloud. If we're going to take away the tools that exist, which have been in a way useless, we're going to have to add new ones. The new instruments are significant tax reliefs. They also have to be of such size that they weigh up the cuts in the SND and the food funds. In particular, taxes on petrol and diesel — i.e. transport — apply to districts. Finally, the Chairman of the Committee, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, took up the change in the comment on page 71. I regret, President, also to the Committee, that the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats has been very unclear here. But that's what the setting says right now. We're going to be out of that note, as it is there. This I have to take responsibility for myself, because here I have been unclear. But we're going to have to be out like that. Then I will take up the proposals of the Progress Party. I would also like to give a signal that the Progress Party is in favour of proposal No by the Centre Party. 22nd@item: inlistbox We want to go towards the setting of proxy under V. Finally, I will address the framework-independent proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which I believe have not been addressed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e527	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to – plus corrected opinions on what to say, whether one should be inside or outside. I hope we get clarity on this when we see the record from the debate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e532	The representative Sandberg, like the rest of the Progress Party, often makes himself the spokesperson for those who have the most difficulty here in society. When it comes to the budgetary procedure and a real priority, we all see what the Progress Party wants to give priority to. It's taxed to those who already have the most. The Labour Party wanted a real boost in welfare policy for the disadvantaged. The Labour Party wanted to make certain changes, which the Sandberg representative has also made himself a spokesman for. But I'm just saying that the Progress Party chose another priority. When it comes to the labour market situation, the representative Sandberg was not in that area at all. We see a alarming rising trend towards increased unemployment these days. The party’s response to this is strongly cut in general labour market measures, a large cut in Aetat and a desire to liberalise overtime work. And not enough: in its budget proposal, the Labour Party proposed a new measure within Aetat to help those who, for various reasons, have problems in the labour market. This stopped the Progress Party elegantly, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right. There is a reason to ask the representative Sandberg: Does the Advance Party really want an inclusive working life with room for everyone? Then I'm quite surprised at the last representative Sandberg said in his post, about the change on page 71 of the setting. When the option was typed, the Progress Party was included in that comment, so there was a plural comment. To come three, four, five days later and say that one is not in the plural setting in that area, I think I'm strange. If the situation had been like that when the setting was written, we might have considered changing the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e542	To the last one, I'm sorry that the fraction has been unclear about that majority comment. We were in the first place obs. on that note. We went in at one point. That's what the undersigned did, because we shouldn't have done that. I'm sorry. When the representative is very concerned with the policies of the Progress Party towards those who have the least, I would just refer to the alternative budget of the Advance Party, which actually gives tax relief to those who have the least, as opposed to the budget that Stoltenberg proposed, which would have given tax relief only to those who have the most. An example here is Stoltenberg's proposal to reduce top taxes, which would apply only to those who have two incomes, and only to those who earn over a certain amount. That's Stoltenberg's proposal. The Progress Party wants to increase the entry of top taxes for all, also for those who have only one income, while at the same time wanting to make reductions at the bottom, which reaches all. At the same time, I would like to refer to the Party's charging policy, which in general will be the best for those who have the least. Because it is clear that it is the electricity charges to the Workers' Party, it is the municipal fees to the Workers' Party, and it is the municipal property taxes to the Workers' Party that are decisive for those who have the least. So here we have a general reduction. Not least, there will be families with low incomes, pensioners and lonely. So here I think the Progress Party has a very, very good conscience. So to the labour market. We have now made it possible for private individuals to get into the market and work in relation to labour market measures. Then we also have to think that they're doing that job. More and more companies are now being set up to employ and sell and hire labour. Then we have to think that it will relieve Aetat. So we can also reduce the appropriations for that department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e553	First of all, for the sake of order: I consider the framework-independent proposals No. 1 and 2 in favour of the Storting, while the Committee's recommendation for Framework Areas 6 and 7 has been promoted for the Storting. The Progress Party representative Per Sandberg touched on important areas in his speech, and I will be very careful to comment on a few points. I must probably disappoint the representative Sandberg by saying that I do not intend to sit all Christmas and watch a video from Farum. On the other hand, I can reassure him that I have been to Farum, and I have had a number of meetings with Mayor Peter Brixtofte. He is almost made as a ghost-like person here in the country, while he makes a fall-back election in the municipality of Farum and has certainly succeeded in modernising that municipality. We agree that the ambition for a more modern municipality-Norway requires a greater and better focus on the individual citizen, and they have not least succeeded in doing so in Farum. The government parties, like the Progress Party, are concerned with the modernisation of the Municipality of Norway and the need for systematic work to create a fairer income system for municipalities. I agree that over the last few years, the state has gained more and more control over municipal income, and that there is little incentive for municipalities to influence their own income, except that they can introduce new taxes and higher taxes. I have noted in particular the comments of the Progress Party on the income of the local government sector and the wish for the return of parts of the corporate tax. My question to Per Sandberg's representative is therefore: can the Progress Party now guarantee that, as they have previously proposed, they will be with the government parties on a proposal to return part of the corporate tax to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e566	Now Hogsnes wasn't the first one I thought about when I suggested video hours at Christmas. I think there's a number of others who might need more to sit and watch videos. But I don't think it does anything if also Hogsnes takes an hour or two, if he has any available hours of Christmas. As far as corporate tax is concerned, it is quite clear. It's easy for me to say that we don't just want to bring back parts of the corporate tax, we want to bring back the entire corporate tax. It also proposed several times in the previous period. The times we did it, there was little support to get from the Right. But now there are new tones, and I really look forward to those signals coming from the Government as well. When it comes to the income system of the municipalities in general, I described some of it in my main post. I don't think the Right and Government parties are on the right track to create greater justice when they actually state in the notes that some grants are going to continue in the same way as they are now. I think the government parties must also be willing to assess all the other subsidies that are in the current instruments, and then I think of the North Norway grant, as the government parties in their comments state that they want to continue. Otherwise, like Hogsnes, I look forward to a further dialogue with the government parties in Stortinget, hoping that together we will resolve many things against the modernisation of the public sector, and especially against the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e577	The President actually expects that video reviews given here have about the same effects as video reviews in the newspapers, so we'll probably decide for ourselves what to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e580	I thought I'd say something about something that Per Sandberg has spent a lot of time in the committee, and that it's written a lot about in the comments, but that was not said about in the post at all. In the budget configuration, the Progress Party notes that ‘all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights, regardless of race, colour, sex, language, religion, origin or beliefs’. They also state that ‘a society based on equivalency must respect people’s different peculiarities, culture, attitudes, experiences and ways of life’. This is great! The problem is that there is nothing in the refugee policy and immigration policy of the Progress Party that is related to this very thing. In relation to, for example: they write, among other things, work permits; one has to look at whether individual rights have to be very limited and that ‘there has to be more and more exceptions to the main principle of equal rights’ — in other words, for people who come here to work. On integration, they say that people who come here are supposed to accept the culture of Norwegian society and become part of it and participate in it. But there are several reasons for asking questions about whether the Progress Party actually lives up to. My view of Norwegian values is that the difference between an imam who is for forced marriage or circumcision, and my view, and my view and the vision of the very majority in the Progress Party are just as great. And my view is also that I am closer to an Iranian oppositionist atheist than for example. managers of some parts of the internal issue which do not allow women to have voting rights in matters of faith. Doesn't the Progress Party see that this is an incredibly big crack?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e602	I must say that when the representative Holmås takes a reply, it only creates more and more confusion. As for the last minute of this line, I think I have to get the record and read it over and over again, because at least I didn't understand what the representative Holmås was after. Holmås clearly failed to mention in relation to the comments of the Progress Party – otherwise the first thing that the representative Holmås read out, a programme statement from the Progress Party – was that we live on the principle that one's freedom does not go beyond where the other's starting. And it's also very important in that we accept the diversity and freedom of the individual, as long as it's not a burden on other people. It concerns immigrants, it concerns Norwegians, it concerns me, and it concerns Holmås. It's that simple. But I record that we are about to have a debate on asylum and immigration policy in Norway. This debate is now due to the fact that the results of the last decade’s policies have become more serious. It's time, because now, according to my claim, it's crisis situations. This year we welcome 16 000 asylum seekers. We've just redeployed $300 million. kr to meet the challenges. There are several thousand people in line for the treatment of their asylum applications, there are several thousand people unregistered with the police, the municipalities are forced to accept the refugees, the municipalities are forced to open asylum and asylum camps, children are confined for several years, minor asylum seekers do not receive the follow-up they require, unemployment among immigrants is enormous. Now action is required, and the Progress Party has the medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e614	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e617	I would first like to mention those proposals in the budget position where SV is either the proposer or the co-rapporteur. The election campaign in the fall was about a lot of things, but two of the things were SV's core stuff. It was a modern school, and it was a fight against poverty. And all the things the municipal committee has about this. It's municipal economy, it's work, it's housing, it's integration, and it's district policy. Poor children and worn-out schools have nothing to do with a modern welfare state. In a modern welfare state, the school is so diverse, forward-looking and good that all parents want to have their children there. The school is free of charge, and all children have the right to babysitting and SFO, at a price that their parents can pay. This is good for everyone. All the peculiarities in school have to go away. SV has now managed to win a victory in the Church, Education and Research Committee for this, and that is good. In addition, we should have free cultural and leisure activities where no children should be excluded because they cannot afford to participate. This is the essence of the difference between SV's social view and that of the right and Government's social view. We want to bet hard on solutions that do not exclude. The government will increase the differences and repair the worst outcomes in case of tried and tested schemes. That's what this community economy is all about. It's essentially not about tricking with systems here and there. It's just computations. But the core has to be the goal, what are we going to do with the money we put in? SV believes that 4 billion more is needed in free income and 3.5 mil-liards more for different grants. We see that we want a long way to go in order to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. I want to talk a little bit more about school and education, because a lot of people say it's job number. 1st@item: inlistbox Government parties have also said that. It is most important for the individual to have complete freedom to control his or her own life. It protects against poverty and marginalisation for individuals. It's the most important thing for the country, because it's the knowledge that's going to create what we're going to live on in the future, and it protects society from huge inequalities, which makes society poor living in. It's most important for business, because that's how we can create growth and values, and it's important for the districts. But what happens now? There is a lack of upgrading in primary school and especially in secondary school. I've been into what's about to happen in high school before today. Only in Hedmark County, 140 million are missing. kr, which must be cut to the next year in high school and transport. Is there anyone in this room who can imagine the consequences of a cut in such a magnitude in high school? In the past, according to former municipal minister Sylvia Brustad, there is no single crown in the municipal economy to carry out the competence reform, to which Stortinget agreed in Innst. O. No 89 for 1999-2000. There we actually gave the right to secondary education for adults. The State was to ‘fully finance the additional costs of the county councils relating to adults’s right to secondary education’, it said. - Not one penny! So, in addition, until today, you've been totally blind to what I'm almost going to call it, the settlement between the state and county council of hospitals. In the case of adults, only 700 adults in Hedmark have reported that they want such education. That would be a huge boost for the district. It would be an enormous promise to ensure that these people do not become unemployed, and that we get development in the business and development of the districts. That's why we have to get the county councils out of the economic hen they're in now. Here, big business and government have to take a joint responsibility to get this done. This is not a special case that SV has invented. This is that we should be able to implement the things we have said that we agree on, namely ensuring that all adults and all young people will receive secondary education. I just want to remind you of St.prp. No 22 for 2001–02, which is also being treated in this year’s Storting, where, as a rule, the Government believes that the Storing should cover 298 million. NOK in deficit at the Rikshospitalet. It's been curfew all year. In the case of state hospitals, it has not been done in the case of county councils. This has to end. In addition, SV wants a special system for resource-intensive users of municipal health services. We want to lift it out of the framework and put it on a special grant line. We want a big urban effort, primarily through our own urban grants, a massive investment in housing, in transport, in kindergarten and school, rather than systems that make small municipalities that are now doing well, for example. an old-age care where they do not leave their old hours. 17 o'clock in the afternoon, they get a bad offer too. So we have to get this into a system that's not such that someone always has to lose and get a bad deal. So for integration: there are major challenges. The point of discussing this is whether we go to the task with the intention that we will succeed, or whether we go to the task as the Progress Party does, with a desire that we fail. Active policies, introduction programmes, language training, actions through Aetat, etc. is important. In its comments, SV said that respect for equality and democracy is the basis of all policies in Norway. It's not the Progress Party, and I'm really wondering about it. I'll take one example, and that's the school. If you really fear fundamentalism and servinism, whether it is ethnic or cultural, then the impossible answer can be more private schools, where children from different environments are to be isolated and cultivate their prejudices against each other. The primary public schools shall be the melting pot in which children with different backgrounds meet and learn to live together. Discussion and dialogue are the most important things. So to the chapter on work. There is an essential line of work, and there has been a broad political agreement. But I wonder after reading the newspaper because today there is not now a heavy bomb under the consensus that has been in this area. An important part of it has been the agreement now concluded between the Government and the social partners on the sickness pay scheme and on active measures to get people out of social security – and they will maintain the sickness pay system. In the newspaper today, Olav Magnussen in the NHO comes again with a strong attack on the health pay system, the social security system, and typically again on those who have the lowest social security, the lowest wages and the smallest jobs. In fact, if we want to be at work as much as possible, we have to tolerate some people getting sick sometimes. If we want to be at work as much as possible, we have to bear in mind that some people have small jobs. And if workers are going to go to social security, we actually have to bear that they also have a social security worth living on. I wonder if this play that comes from the NHO today is cleared with the Government. The government statement that I am in front of me states that the Cooperative Government will actively follow up the agreement with the social partners on measures to reduce sick leave. I wonder if the government will now turn the table against the NHO and say that now it will be enough, now you'll have to stop messing with these arrangements, and then you get to bet on the measures you've agreed on, so that people who need it will get the help they need. In the Committee we have agreed on a wording which reads: ‘... the social security system is a good one and is established to meet the real needs of the sick, the disabled and the unemployed and that it is not a problem that they are used by those who need them.’; That's an important starting point we have to have. In addition, we need to tackle the line of work and the arrangements that are needed to realize it. As it is now, the agencies responsible for this — the Aetat, the Social Security Agency and the social services — are separate agencies with responsibilities, and in most places they have separate offices. None of the agencies has overall responsibility, either locally or centrally. This taskbar auxiliary is at least available to those who need it the most. Here a cleanup is needed. In addition, for five consecutive years, the Statistical Centre has shown that measures for the unemployed work – 42 pst. get a job with action, 28 pst. without. Twice as many start regular education if they have taken action. What, then, is the point of not increasing the effort? If we believe that work is the key to getting people out of poverty, we need to reinforce the measures that increase the chance of success.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e652	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e657	I want to start by thanking you for a good and constructive cooperation in the Committee between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The representative Karin Andersen has been a strong contributor to a good result, and we have gained a great deal of unity in many important, good political areas. The representative, Andersen, talks a lot about education in his article, and a former education politician appreciates it. I fully agree with the representative when it comes to the importance of training in district policy, not least when it comes to qualifying for employment. In the option SV is unclear on some areas. I'll take one area for myself, and that applies to the support schemes. It says that they are in principle in agreement with the Workers' Party and the Centre's party that the bumps are to be paid monthly, and not as they are today with tertiary payments. Later in the setting SV says that the proposal for monthly payments would be inappropriate for the beneficiaries of the support, and then they say that SV will ‘renew the current system of late payments three times a year’. This is a little confusing, and my question is, What do I mean? The second thing I want to mention with SV is the proposal to allow 584 million. kr more than the Bondevik Government in the case of abstinence from establishment, repair and rental. The working party agrees with SV that it is important to take a force cut. But won't this just be a blow in the air when we know that there are no plans in the municipalities? And the question is, in fact, what kind of action SV will put in place to create a social housing building in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e669	I want to take advantage of the opportunity to put my thanks back, and I imagine that there is now a broad alliance between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV in heavy, important questions. It's important! It's also an important alliance if we look a little ahead, to break the big neck that's on the right and the Progress Party now has on Norwegian policy. In the case of the housing aid scheme, it is no more confusing than that. We want a system of monthly payments. But we see that by the system that the government has now proposed, the housing support payment will be three months behind, and it will be a major problem for the liquidity when you don't get paid housing support more continuously. We've pointed that out in the comment. So we want a monthly payment, but we want you to get into a system where you get the housing allowance when you're going to have it, and not with a poster like it's being added up to now. In the case of the housing supplement, it is one of the SV’s heart matters. It is absolutely right that there are some plans missing. One of the instruments proposed by SV is that the state should be more active on the owner’s side at start-up. That's one of our suggestions. We see that there's too little going on in the municipalities, so we want a much more active role in that area. The second is that these grants can be used for construction. It's important, because it needs more, and it's the only thing that can do anything about the prices. But it's actually also possible to buy. The subsidies can be used for the purchase of dwellings, and we know that there are between 5,000 and 6,000 people who are homeless in this country – we have known that as long as I have been on the Stortinget. It's cold in winter too, and we can't do anything about it. Had we got this money in place, we might not be able to meet this winter with shame because we have not been able to get homes for those who do not even have a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e680	The representative, Andersen and SV, have been involved in housing policy throughout the party. They even write in their own notes under the hood. 581 on housing and environmental protection measures that there are too few rentals for young people and disadvantaged people. SV has been high on the job in criticising the Co-operation Board for reducing the housing grant, although 26 million. kr goes to increased bet on student housing. I find this criticism paradoxical, because SV in the Church, Education and Research Committee – which is the only committee where SV is in position – cuts the whole increase of the Cooperative Government to student housing. Does SV have a policy that is different from opposition to position? Further in his speech today, Karin Andersen spoke about integration. But once again to the Church, Education and Research Committee, where SV cuts the subsidies to linguistic minorities in primary school by 12.8 million. kr. I would like to ask Karin Andersen once again: does SV have a different policy in the opposition and in the position, and what is the result of these conflicting positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e687	I'm very happy that we got these two questions, they give me reason to get the important things we've got into the church, education, and research committee. There we have now secured a majority for a study funding which will provide more than DKK 1 billion to improve student funding. It's a very important structural operation that's been done, that's secured 40 pst. scholarship share for the students. So it's absolutely right that to get to it we have to be on a cut of student homes. In parallel with this, we are working on a regrouping proposal that is currently under consideration, to put that money back into the current year's budget. It shall not be on SV if the Right and Government parties will be involved in raising the housing sector – at all! When it comes to the cut to which the representative refers in language minority training, it is not quite understood as the representative says. This is because it is an estimate and about the rights to education. What has not been done here at all is to cut the subsidies, so that the rate of this teaching is fixed. It was even increased last year after being silent for very many years. That means that money is triggered based on how many people actually meet the requirements and receive instruction. This is an estimate, and there have been many debates about how we trick with them in Stortinget in the past. Some people call it "Harry money," and some people have other concepts of it. I'm not going to go so deep into what the Government has done with its money, both before and after they put forward the proposition, how they have now negotiated in different committees, and how they've juggled a little with estimates. But it's not about a real cut. If the number of students enrolled is higher, this is an estimate, and then it will be paid at the fixed rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e694	Let me first tell the representative Andersen that what she says about private schools, in fact, says a lot more about SV's representatives and their prejudices and lack of tolerance towards other people. I am not far from saying that Andersen's representative is injuring when there is a claim that children in private schools practice prejudice against each other. But I guess there's nothing new from SV. Then I record that Andersen's representative again spends a lot of time in his post at the Progress Party – as if today's situation is created by the fact that the Progress Party has had power. That's not the case. The closer the SV and the Workers' Party have created the situation that exists today. And with all due respect to reporting, we must have been asked to be held responsible for having a critical situation in both refugee and asylum policy and in the public sector. SV will only continue the old instruments. They will strengthen the old public sector measures. They will also strengthen and continue the old smartest asylum and immigration policy. Even now, they have made a single settlement that the clever asylum and immigration policy on the left has failed. Nevertheless, we also see some positive things in SV. Vice-Chairman Inge Ryan is out in Trønder-Avisa today and says that either the county must now be dissolved or it must be assigned new tasks. My question to Andersen is: If we do not now manage to add new tasks to the county council, will SV be involved in and shut down the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e703	If the representative Sandberg had taken the trouble to read SV's comments, he would have seen what it says there. It says that if you don't manage to get tasks done and match your tasks with your economy, and put in place a system that makes you see some sense in the problems that are left, and there's some money there, then our conclusion is clear. This is a situation that cannot continue as it currently stands. A proper hospital settlement for spring can correct the situation. However, it should not be a surprise for a member of the Committee that SV has this position. It's in the setting. When it comes to the other issues that Sandberg's representative raised, I would also ask Sandberg's representative to read what SV actually writes when it comes to integration policy. On the contrary, we are quite critical to much of the policy that has been pursued – not on the basis that the Progress Party has, because the policy of the Progress Party is that it should really be less here, that it would have been best if they had traveled, and that as much as possible be just like us. It's a completely utopian reasoning. The world isn't like that, and it's not going to be like that. The world is going to be multicultural and diverse. This is SV's starting point, and we have to meet it with positive measures. We see the challenges, but we want a much more active policy for the introduction programme and the introduction benefit, and an active housing policy. We have pressured Aetat to get tools to enable them to move in with measures for unemployed immigrants very quickly. We've been pressing for more education and language training. We've long wanted a policy where we're going to be much clearer and really integrate people, instead of sitting and waiting and staring in the wall for years before they can get help to be integrated into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e710	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e713	In the book ‘Why Wrong Goes Worst’, Gudmund Herne’s reference to the opposition principle reads: ‘Where it is will, it is mobilised counter-willingly.’ And it is the will of the Cooperation Agency to facilitate the provision of a good service to the citizens of the municipality of Norway. The municipal economy is almost 250 million. kr higher than the Stoltenberg Government provided, but the most important thing for Kommune-Noreg is that the budget is sufficiently tight to be likely to reduce interest rates. Only 1 pst. interest rate decrease means 800 million. kr in the better framework of Kommune-Noreg; it will mean more to schooling, health and care for the elderly. The welfare is created locally. The reluctance is most evident in the fact that the Labour Party – the largest party in the country – does not accept that the framework has been given, as provided for in the budgetary regulation, and votes against the adopted framework. And when the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen answers that they do it because of e.g. a labour market policy for which they cannot stand, it seems reasonable to exaggerate as the 30 million. kr, which is cut, however, means that the Government’s budget is 56 million. kr over the current budget for the current year, i.e. 2001. That means 3.5 pst. growth and the same number of annual work, and I wonder what the previous Minister of Finance had to do with his own budget for 2001. So the local economy is acceptable, and can, if developments are going as we expected, be very good. There are several elements of the local economy that there is reason to rejoice. Resource-based users are an unmanageable expenditure item for many municipalities. Now, the majority, the government party and the Progress Party, have asked for a top-level funding scheme that will make the supply of these people who need help and care around the clock less dependent on the economy of each municipality. For two years I have been a member of the Municipal Committee. This issue has always been on the agenda, and not least the small municipalities can now look forward to better funding. The morbidity reform and the data provided after it are also reviewed, and the plurality calls on the Government to come back with a fair declaration to the county councils in the revised national budget. All games give expression to similar points of view. And in the light of the debate we had in this house in June about this particular case, where it was not possible to change what was called the ‘a state robbery’, I will post a well-known statement from the election campaign: ‘It’s the good thing we have choices sometimes.’ It also applies to the older reform, which now has a necessary continuation. By the way, the agreement with the Progress Party was very good for both the water supply program, which is now being added 20 million. to address in particular the needs of the food industry, and of the 14 municipalities who felt that the promise of compensation for the employer’s contribution was not followed up. To be honest, there's a chapter that I'm a little proud of. First, the Labour Party cut the 154 million. kr, which was promised, and in 14 days, the Cooperation Agency was unable to get anything in place. There was also no plurality for anything in the financial settings. So I'm glad that these 14 municipalities are now going to have 20 million. kr — a symbolic sum, but still. Never, I think, have I seen so many Christian People's Party quotes in any working party comment as in this setting. Regional and regional policies have been significantly curtailed. Nevertheless, the image is not completely black. In most areas, frames are not far away from those with which the territory has operated for existing years. So there is no disaster we are witnessing. There are actually hundreds of millions to be used in the districts. And the government will make an even greater effort to target them against the edge and against innovation. In addition, I will focus on the Government's tax policy. There is no doubt that existing enterprises, which often tend to be red, will benefit from tax cuts and tax cuts, and interest rates are significant for all. Even if local labour funds do not receive the desired capital injection of 93 million this year. kr, it is not to be overlooked that the new investment company that we are now seeing of close to 2.5 billion will also help the districts. District Norway is not going under for the next year! I don't have so much speaking time left, but I want to mention that 'Simplifying Norway' means that power is being moved from the people in charge of the code to the people and the people in charge, and that's a good change, which will also mean a lot to the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e748	I didn't think it was much positive that District Norway didn't go under in the coming years, I thought we had a little bigger views for District Norway. But of course it's not easy to be Christian People's Party politicians in District Norway these days, we see that from all the writings that come to the Stortning when it comes to the reverse operation on district support, municipal nutrition funds, everything that the Christian People's Party has been with and said ok – the Christian People's Party got the prime minister, right got the policy. And this is right-wing policy from one end to another. In addition, the Right Party, and not the Christian People's Party, will have a say in housing policy. It has been a high price, and there are probably many local politicians in the Christian People's Party who thought it was. It's very sad to experience that the majority that we had here at Stortinget to have an active district policy and to stand on when it comes to industrial policy, where the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party were united, have now destroyed the Christian People's Party, and they have also made it possible to destroy a lot of what has been done in recent years. Finally, Apelthun's representative spent some time in compensation for these nine municipalities in Hordaland. Then I think we'll take the whole story with us. At first, the central government, with Odd Roger Enoksen, increased the employer's fee in these municipalities. So we've found money here in the Storting every year. It's been a hard time getting it done, and 20 million. kr is not enough. When the Strilen look-up is that it is ‘unlikely for the Workers' Party to come with 20 million. kr», and when one of the finance debates here hassled that we didn't have any more, I must say it's strange that the Christian People's Party is coming with 20 million now. I'm really happy about it in fact, because that means it was important what the Labour Party did to get 20 million. I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e757	When you first have to write history, you can start as well, because it was ESA who said that you couldn't continue with the employer's tax policy that you had. One had to change that, and so there were many municipalities – 14 municipalities – who had to set up the employer’s fee while others had it down. It was unfortunate for these municipalities, and I still regret that they do not receive the compensation that the Storting had promised them. But it is also fun that the representative Ranveig Frøiland, neighbor and relatives, and I can be happy together that they get something, that is, 20 million. kr. It is good to have such agreement before the Christmas party. Otherwise, I will assure the representative of Frøiland that she will find out that this government too will pursue an active policy for the districts. We're going to do that in a lot of ways, but one has to see things in context. It is not just the individual measures that make it a good policy for the districts, it is the context of the policy. Besides that we're going to have and have hundreds of millions just for direct district support, so a better community economy will provide manoeuvring space. And the expected decline in interest rates will also enable municipalities and counties to give priority to what they think is most important, whether it be nutrition funds or regional coordination. I would also like to add – as I got too little time in my post – that a new investment company of 2.5 billion kroner could not possibly be worth without value also for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e768	The representative, Anita Apelthun. It was little I could find here to take a juicy line on, to say it like this. But I want to get into a case, and it is that there are several companies and employees who today call for increased flexibility in working time, and who believe that the Work Environment Act needs to be embellished. It is now the case that a broader review of the Working Environment Act is being carried out. But I still believe that a change that goes on a broad scale will take too long in relation to some other minor changes that are needed and that you cannot wait until you have carried out a broad review of the law. I also remember that this was a matter in which the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agreed in the previous session that such a decoration of the work environment law in this area had to be done, but then we were not in majority. We have this majority here in the Chamber today, and so together we can now make sure that our intentions in this area are adopted here today. I would like to ask the representative Apelthun Seele if at least her party and the government parties will not consider supporting the proposals of the Progress Party, so that the necessary changes in the provisions of the Working Environment Act on overtime work are taken out of the wide-ranging treatment to which I believe it has been put and which I believe will take too long. To assess this with overtime work, we have to do it quickly. There is something that I think we do not have time to wait for. The councils are sitting here. I also believe that the Council of State should be able to say something about this. We want a faster treatment than what it is possible to do through such a broad review of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e782	I agree with the replicator that flexibility is actually necessary in relation to a changing labour market that the old rules may not have adequate answers to. That a must not be rigid in relation to these rules, is what we have pointed out before, as the representative correctly pointed out, and we are also in a comment in the setting some to ask the government to look at the possibilities to change this. But then there's also going to be a big review. It's so that in the government position there's a slightly different setting. One has the ability to speak directly into the Government, and must not adopt everything that one thinks to have a point of view. That is also the background to the fact that we do not agree with this proposal from the Progress Party, but we have stated in our remarks – and therefore a number in this Chamber – that it is necessary to look at some flexibility within this area. And that doesn't mean that work environment laws are to be weakened in relation to employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e787	In many ways it's hard to recognize the Christian People's Party from the four years I've been here before and until today. It is with great seriousness that I record that in areas where the Christian People's Party was formerly found both in principle and in relation to its care, among other things. for children who have difficulty, the absence of consideration for their government partners. And I'm thinking in particular of a group that's important, and it's the lone minor asylum seekers. Are they to be treated as our children, or are they to be treated differently? That's the way it is now. If a Norwegian child is without parents or guardians, child protection is responsible for the care of the child’s interests, so that the child is cared for, adult contact and safety. This should and should be the case for all children and young people in Norway. Equal treatment of children, regardless of who they are, is an important principle and a necessary legal basis for some of the most vulnerable children in society to meet their needs. As late as we supported the Christian People's Party's view that minors, single asylum seekers should be treated in the same way as Norwegian children in the same situation. Without justification, they're changing vision. In fact, implementing such a principle means major changes, and it costs money to take good care of children. Youth in free flow, without knowledge and belonging to the Norwegian community, is an easy trade for those actively recruiting for crime, and it is a tight road to exclusion and poverty. Why has the Christian People's Party changed its view of this point. This is essential. And if the Christian People's Party is now going to answer that they're going to use foster homes, I just want to remind you that there's a measure under child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e798	I thought it was a pity that SV saw it so that they didn't recognize us, and especially in this area, I think it was due to a misinterpretation. Firstly, I would say that in practice, child protection is within almost all contexts when minor asylum seekers are involved. And care for children who have it difficult, will be, have ours and will always become a special priority area for the Christian People's Party. Now, child protection is not always able to solve all the issues either. Child protection has a big problem, there are many unsolved tasks on the child protection table. So putting things under child protection, doesn't mean that things are solved, and that the problems are over. I'm going to answer this time as I've said before, that the goal for us is that children who are alone in Norway are to be placed in foster homes, get a natural and good set-up. And when I answer that, it's because I think it's the best thing for the child. The organization of this has always been less busy than the actual results for the individual child. I can promise the representative from SV that we will not be less active on this than before, whether we are in government or outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e811	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e814	The budget of the Labour Party would be about 500 million. more in allocations in key areas such as housing, districts and work. It would make a significantly stronger effort to ensure the main features of the housing pattern, to counteract the increasing unemployment and to improve the provision of housing to very many, not least those who do not have a dwelling, or to live expensive and poor. In its position, the Christian People's Party has carried out a complete salto in relation to its previous policies, especially in the areas of districts and housing. The Christian People's Party was for last year, they are against this year. The issue of poverty has been a very topical policy issue in the autumn. The government is constantly trying to give the impression that they're busy doing something about this. And that's good. But in practical policy, we have seen in the autumn that the Bondevik government is doing the opposite – for example. housing policy. High housing costs are a very important reason why some people are poor in this country. Then one would believe that the government would do something about it. But no. The Government of Bondevik is doing the opposite – cutting the loan framework in the House Bank with a total of NOK 2 billion. This means that 4,000 fewer households get a mortgage. The whole increase that the previous government introduced is reversed. In addition to the fact that young people are affected at the start-up stage, this also means about a cut. 1000 fewer new dwellings with mortgages until next year. This is contrary to the Christian People's Party's past. It's just to read in the setting from last year where the Christian People's Party stated: «It is very important that the lending framework of the House Bank is sufficient to provide loans to all those wishing to build within the area and standard requirements of the House Bank.» This is quite the opposite of what the Government proposes, that the House Bank should become a first-home bank, and that the frames should be cut. The working party is going the other way: we want to increase the housing allowance for young and disadvantaged people. The housing allowance is directed directly towards households with a weak economy and would help those who need it the most, among other things. the homeless. But when the Bondevik government needed money for tax relief to the richest, they cut among other things. in the housing allowance. Money so badly needed for all, the poorest, goes to all, the richest in this country. The Workers' Party proposes to further increase housing support. Our increase of 77 million. kr would provide housing support for families with children living in naked dwellings, which are not house-funded, and have low incomes and high housing costs. The government parties and the Advance Party say no. The working party will also allocate another 5 million. kr for measures for the homeless in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger and for a cooperation project between the Church of the Bymition and the Salvation Army. At the top of it all, the Government withdraws the Workers' Party's proposal to secure state land for housing projects for young and disadvantaged people. The Bondevik government says no and obliges the state to sell at market prices. The Labour Party believes that work is the way out of permanent poverty. That's why it's pretty amazing what the government is doing in this area. When unemployment increases, the Government increases the daily allowance, but does nothing to get the unemployed out of new jobs. The working party does both: increases the daily allowance and increases the measures. When the government is about to take a vow to get more long-term unemployed, immigrants and unemployed into work, the government of Aetat cuts the social security system and ceases to employ Aetat Enterprise – an action that has proved to be very good for the most disadvantaged in the labour market. Here they are allowed to try their way into the labour market in order to be caught later. In the field of immigration, the problems are considerable. Too many people stay in reception for too long. The case-handling time in the UDI is too long. Municipalities are anxious to receive those who have received a residence permit. I have noticed that the government believes that this will improve in the next summer. We hope for all of that, but it remains to be seen. I am pleased that the entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is asking the Government to put in place a system of supplementary support for short-stay pensioners in Norway. Here, the Progress Party fails its pensioners for whom they claim to be spokesperson. Finally, the comments of the Progress Party on immigration and integration are, in fact, unqualified historical writing and viewing from end to end. And the word "including" is hard to find. But it is certainly a true description of the immigration policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e849	First, let me say that I am happy that it seems that today we have got through the main features of our budget line in both the framework area 6 and within the budget area of the Ministry of Local Affairs. It gives me a good basis for further work next year, for the best for people both in cities and districts and both for immigrants and already settled in the north. I would like to comment on some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. First, to the committee leader who raised the question of a long-term plan for the local economy and the need for a better balance. We are now working to identify the possibilities for a long-term plan in cooperation with KS. We have said that we are going to include it in the consultations, but I would like to stress that there are a number of problems related to the question whether it is possible to create such a long-term plan at all. One is that the municipal sector accounts for such a large part of the total economy that a defined plan that requires the State to increase transfers to the municipalities will place very large commitments on the government budgets in the years to come and will depend on economic development. Nor is it certain that increased State transfers will improve the actual financial situation, because the municipalities themselves have a separate responsibility to balance expenditure against income, inter alia. through conversion and efficiency. And so they have a separate responsibility for their payroll, which is a big underlying question about what expenditure we're going to see in the local government sector in the years to come. One contribution the state has, is that it can increase the freedom of action for the municipal sector. Among other things, we can do this by incorporating earmarked grants, simplifying reporting and regulation, making it easier for municipalities to make their own priorities and also ensuring that the community structure is more consistent, i.e. a better match between the tasks you expect to do and the resources you receive. There will be my direction in the work on income for the local government sector and the structure of expenditure in the local government sector in the years to come. So we have a desire that we can find some more long term lines, but we see that there are problems in getting it realized. So to another topic, the housing issue. I have to say that what is happening in this area is dramatic for the housing sector, is an incredible exaggeration! So in this area, 16 million is allocated. kr more than last year – 16 mill. kr more in housing allowances than you have lived with in the current period. It is, therefore, that the Co-operation Administration spends just as much money as the Stoltenberg Government provided in terms of poverty-oriented measures, measures for the disadvantaged on the housing market. We have reduced the housing allowance, but it corresponds to a crown for crowns with increases in housing support and an increase in the framework for the construction of student housing. And the paradox is that those who stand here criticising – including Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who believe that housing policy is a reason for not adopting this framework – will decide in a few days that the investment in youth rental housing, the most targeted action in the youth sector, student housing, should be cut. In practice, the parties of the Cooperative Government are responsible for the most targeted, active youth housing structure next year, not the parties who have said that this framework is not to live with, and therefore cannot vote for it because of the housing issue. That's what I'm saying. I notice that the representatives of the Workers' Party prefer to talk about their financial position, which has more measures in the housing sector than the Stoltenberg government itself has found. But I have to remind you that the starting point was the arrangement of the Stoltenberg government, and that in relation to that, we rate the same amount – actually more – in terms of targeted actions, because we have said that we do not want to spend 12 million. kr to red tape and to the postal service to introduce changes in the payment structure of housing aid, but we want this to be more targeted and provided in the form of increased housing support. Then to the district policy. I would like us to appear as a government that has spread both joy and happiness throughout Norway, including in the districts. And I think we should all be positivity agents around, like in the previous Bondevik government, and not least former councilman Enoxsen's fanatic. I have noticed that in a way, many of the actors from that time, both in the Central Party and in the Workers' Party, act as the opposite, namely as pure depression agents in relation to what it's going to be like in the District-Norway in the future. I would like to remind you that we are removing the airport charge, which would have to be imposed for all travel distances in Norway if we were to comply with the ESA directive. Let's get rid of it. That means a relief for the companies. We're removing the dividend tax, which makes it easier for family-run businesses, which is a major part of the structure of District Norway. We get better tax credit arrangements in research, and we have increased appropriations for transport. It's another kind of device, but it's jamming me a bet on districts in what we've also presented. It is not, in fact, that all efforts in district policy have as little impact as many of the actors here in this debate have claimed and criticized us for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e872	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e875	Let me first ask the Council of State to compare the same thing to the same thing -- it's a reasonable difference when the Bondevik government asks NOK 2 billion more at its disposal -- and the question is, what do you dispose of them for? The Bondevik government is making it a tax haven. The Labour Party prioritises increasing the housing allowance for those who are homeless, increasing housing support for young families who do not have mortgages, etc. But the dramatic shift in housing policy is primarily linked to the liquidation of the Husbank as a general housing bank. It will have a dramatic effect. But what has created the greatest debate in relation to the budget is undoubtedly district policy. I register that it is written in the body of the state's own instrument, SND: ‘Coveredly, then, 5 billion dollars will disappear from necessary and risky development projects, often in enterprises that have many years ahead before tax incentives and other structural measures will take effect.’ The Director of the SND is also counting on the ring-fenced effects of the measures to be taken by the SND. I record that four knowledge companies in Tromsø write: ‘The government is waving tax incentives for businesses as a kind of substitute for an depleted SND. As an instrument for start-ups? Forget it! We call when we are in the tax position!’ And the prime minister's own county council says: ‘What may look like small government budget changes at macro level has a dramatic impact on business in our region.’ And one that the Council of State may feel closer, the Secretary-General of the Federation of Enterprises, says, ‘It seems that the Government is not aware of the consequences of what it has proposed’. He gets the support of the N.H.O. ‘The government should spend more time transforming business policy...’. Is it so that all of these have taken completely wrong, and that basically only the Government and some spice voices in the National Association of Process Industries have been right? Or is it the case that we now have a dramatic change of district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e910	Let me start by comparing the same thing to the same thing. The measures that the Workers' Party has included in its financial position on housing issues, we continue to work on; improving the housing support system and improving the housing grant in relation to the poverty package. We do not disagree that there are good and targeted actions. The starting point for Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen's posts instead was that he could not support the framework in this area because, among other things, it was. had dramatic consequences in the area of housing. But there's probably as much money here as what he himself agreed to propose as Minister of Finance in that area. And that's why I think maybe the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen should modify his previous expression somewhat. If not, he has actually mistrusted himself as Minister of Finance. And a little bit consistent we're all trying to be. As regards the liquidation of the Husbank as a general residential bank, it is not the case that the Government will remove all the elements of the general residential bank. It has been a misunderstanding that we are going to turn the bank into a purely institutional bank and a social bank. We are going to give priority to it within the framework that we have available to the bank, but there will still be many billions available for ordinary housing and financing of general housing. Part of the criticism that has been made by the Workers' Party against the Christian People's Party is therefore wrong. The right has not given up this position, and we've clearly said that it's the establishment bank element that's what we're going to give priority to. And once I say it, it's like... because what Signe Eye said in his post is wrong. It is not that the lower framework will lead to the creation of 4 000 young people. They'll have a loan of establishment. That's what goes on our re-priority. We ensure that these loans come in front of the usual housing loans. Now I don't have time for district policy. Can I have another post?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e924	To that the President would say that there are many lines to answer. There is also the possibility of a short three-minute post, but it should be short.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e928	Technical estimations for the municipal sector are mentioned many times today. The facts coming out are that there are huge differences in the provision of services in municipalities – enormous differences. The conclusions of this are set out in the Evening Post on 7 November 2001: ‘These estimates show that North Norway has the highest total production of municipal services.’ And it actually goes on to say: ‘North Norway therefore has little to complain about in terms of municipal standards compared to the rest of the country.’ It's Borge who says this. Finally, the same article states: ‘The number of the sample shows that the corrected revenue per year. The population in Northern Norway is 25 per cent above Hedmark and Uppland. This is due to special grants to North Norway.’ In today's setting, the Right is in conjunction with a number of other parties in a comment on the peace of the North Norway grant. My question to the Council of State is then: does the Council of State share the view that the North Norway grant will now be delivered in the future? My second challenge to the Council of State comes as a result of the fact that the Council of State now hopes that the Government will spread “joy and happiness” around the country. I sincerely hope so, and I hope that the Government will do so by hand with the Advance Party. It also refers to this sample, where Rune J. Sørensen, a professor at the BI School of Commerce, says that 100 municipalities are enough. Today's municipalities and county councils should be replaced by one local government level with about 100 municipalities. Such a reform will provide both more vital local democracy and more efficient service production. Does the Council of State share these views of Rune Sørensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e957	I share the view that we have too many municipalities in Norway, because I believe that many municipalities today have problems getting skilled labour and an environment around solving jobs, so that they can create the best possible services. In addition, we see that many small municipalities have very high costs in terms of providing this service and in terms of their own internal administration. That doesn't mean I'm going to take any initiative in an offensive policy to oblige the municipalities to grow bigger. What I have said, on the other hand, is that I think it is important that all municipal politicians discuss, and that it is their own responsibility to ensure that they find an efficiency potential, not only internally in their own municipality, but in cooperation with other municipalities through intermunicipal cooperation, and that they may also consider aggregations. But I'm not signaling a large-scale campaign to get fewer municipalities. Previous municipal mergers have shown that they create so many counterpowers that one in the short term loses quite a lot of the efficiency if this cannot be gradually built up. Therefore, my wish is that we take an open and honest debate that the service offer might be better with a few fewer municipalities. That it was going to be 100 municipalities, I think it's completely unrealistic. I don't think we should forget that Norway is a country that has a very special geography that also limits what one wins on municipal mergers. That's why I think that in the future we will also have municipalities that have both 200, 300 and, for that matter, 400 inhabitants, because it will be optimal in relation to the geography and the location they have. This poses a lot of interesting questions. So the distribution between the municipalities. The government is based on the Sem declaration. The Sem Declaration clearly states that the North Norway grant is to be continued. That we are going to continue the North Norway grant, I am going to follow up loyally as a municipal minister. But I agree that offering services in North Norway is better than average in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e966	The council had a slightly clarifying statement in relation to the line that took place with regard to the House Bank. But she was really just clarifying what both I and several others have been afraid of, namely, wanting to re-prioritize what the House Bank is going to do, in other words shifting lending from construction to start-up lending – i.e. in a way a clean first-home thinking – while tightening the framework, as the arrow pointed out in a way in the budget that Solberg was now presenting. When you do both of these things, you do exactly what we're afraid of, that you move money from housing, so that there's less money for it. Then just one of my questions is: does the Council of State not see that if you do exactly this, it will lead to a decline in housing in Norway? Isn't that a big deal? The second thing I was going to ask about is what now stands for the door, namely that there is a pile of people who are homeless for winter. We're talking about thousands. So this is the fifth consecutive winter that this is taken up from the Storting's pulpit. Every year, SV's proposals are voted on to do something about this down, and instead, reference is made to providing long-term measures, and that this is something we have to work on for a long time. This is primarily an oslo problem, and the coincidences will have it so that the same parties that sit with the power of government also sit with the power of the city government in Oslo. Then my question is, can't the Council of State just do something about this? The Council of States cannot simply arrange and ensure that immediate action is taken. So here you have a budget where there's a lot of money left for this, much less than we want – but there's money there. Can't you do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e973	Let's do something. Today, a conference is being held in Stavanger about the project Bostedslöse, with representatives from all the cities affected by this project, including: The Ministry of Social Affairs is an active participant from our side. We're doing something to create lasting, better housing for the homeless. In fact, in the case of the emergency situation, the Municipality of Oslo has had a plan to deal with the crisis settlement in recent years. But the long-term offers here include: It's pretty difficult, because it's too many of the groups that are homeless, that is. the homeless who are afraid to freeze in the street, and not only those who live with friends and acquaintances of the breeze, who are also part of the homeless problem, are subject to offers other than housing. They need help to live, and that's what the homeless project is all about. You're going to get help getting a living next to just getting a dwelling. It therefore requires the municipalities to also provide an auxiliary service related to this. That's one of the reasons I've been concerned that we're going to take the big cities' challenges in terms of drugs and psychiatry seriously, because it's the exact same group. If we don't say that this is a public task, that this is a municipal task that needs to be reflected in the municipal income system, even though it's difficult to find the objective criteria, the municipalities have to be able to get a census in order to solve some of this. I am going to work actively to ensure that no one freezes in the street during the winter, and that we will do so in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. But I want to praise the Municipality of Oslo for having actually prepared for this in recent years. The long-term projects, the ones that make people get away from the street more permanently, are going to be primarily the state's commitment. Then we must also take into account that municipalities should have a follow-up device on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e980	Only first until the current line break. It is my sincere opinion that where it is will, it is way in this area. It was when Bondevik I introduced funds to the largest cities, that the first project saw the light of day. There must be more resources to invest, to strengthen this area even more, so that the cooperation that has now begun can be even more valid. So that's what my line was supposed to be about. It is such that the exceptional discretionary approach, i.e. this loss compensation according to Rattsø, should gradually be decommissioned over five years from 2002. It's $1,472 million in 2001. SEK and in 2002 SEK 1 190 million. kr. The county of Oslo, Akershus and Rogaland will have 670 million. kr, while the other counties receive well 500 million. kr. In the municipal bill for this year, an overview of the effects is given after five years. It can be seen that in all counties, the smallest districts have their frames reduced, while larger and more central municipalities win. This is a development that Erna Solberg has jubilantly over. So now it has a notice of further redistribution for the benefit of the big cities. It cannot change its geography. It must behave differently. She will again not oppose the coercion of municipalities. But isn't it that it's actually coerced to force the municipalities to reduce the school, well-being and tasks that they have to have in the smallest municipalities today in order for people to live there?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e989	To just sign out the first, homeless project: Yes, we follow up on what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, the Social Minister, started. We're going to go on with a larger number of cities. We also go on using private organisations in this work, because we know that they are more flexible in finding solutions. It is not on money; this has first priority in building stock within housing grants. Everything else comes after this kind of thing. But there's something to make sure that the municipalities here also have the proportion in order, and that they find out good projects. That's why you work pretty closely, and we expect that the conference that is today will also give us a better idea of how to shape this in the future. So the question of distribution between municipalities. I am concerned that we should get the most objective income system possible. This means that the municipalities that have been overcompensated in the income system in the past will have a smaller share of income in the future through the growth that comes, than they would get with today's system. I think there are two debates: one debate on the issue of the framework, and another on the issue of fair distribution. When we look at the actual nature of service provision in Norway, it is quite systematic that the municipalities that are currently going to get too much money in relation to what they should have objectively had after Rattsø are among the best service providers. The probability of getting a good offer if you live elsewhere, e.g. in growth municipalities in the eastern region, are considerably smaller. That's why we said in the Sem statement that we want to do something about the criteria that are missing from big cities. We're going to do something in relation to the growth criteria, we're going to count people at a later date than what you're doing today. Overall, this is likely to mean weighting something different in the income system. And then comes the question of what you get space for, which then will depend on the question of framework. I think that all parties should be involved in a debate on at least a fairer income system compared to the inhabitants of cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1002	Governments have gone through a series of statements to convert the House Bank into a first-home bank, even though she is now moderating something, and that's good. Since it was established in 1946, the House Bank has been a main instrument of Norwegian housing policy, and since its start is more than 1 million. housing financed by loans from the House Bank. It's more than half of everyone. In this case, this will be the largest conversion of Norwegian housing policy over 50 years. The last right tried at such a conversion, in ours, it was only the Right who went in for it. My first question is: will the Storting get presented with such a big and fundamental case? Governments have claimed that the Husbank has no social impact, only that the state is involved in activities that other banks can handle. But I'll ask you, is that true now? Most people can probably get mortgages, but at what level? The loans of the house bank are no longer subsidized, but they are nevertheless more reasonable. The reason is quite simple, and that is that the government is getting cheaper loans, and the borrowers are getting more reasonable loans. We compare the interest rates in the House Bank for a loan of e.g. NOK 800000 within 80 pst. In fact, with the interest rate of the cheapest major bank in Norway, collateral and a repayment period of more than 25 years, it turns out that the mortgage of the House Bank is about. 4 100 dollars cheaper per day. year, or overall over the entire loan period 102000 kroner cheaper. Then I ask the Council of State: does the Council intend to impose such a cost on the many people who could receive mortgages? The Government is also committed to gaining competition and strengthening competition between banks. Far on the way, she has also accelerated this. [[The President clubs.]] My question to the Council of State is: how sensible is it then to reduce the lending activity of the House Bank, where it is already the cheapest?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1011	If it were the case that we had proposed what the representative based his entire line on, on which I have just said that we actually did not propose, we would, of course, have come to Stortingen with it for treatment. But we're not proposing that, and I'm not going to come to Stortinget with a hypothetical suggestion. This is how we still need to have an entry loan within the House Bank. It is also true that the current framework is identical to the current year’s framework. Within that framework, we have completed a housing production of 26 000 housing units in Norway this year, the highest number of at least the last 15-20 years, if I don't remember faults. So there's still plenty of room to get loans for housing through the House Bank with the framework that is. In addition, the additional budget of the Government states that we will come back with an assessment of the loan framework in the context of the revised national budget to see if it is large enough. When I've gone out with the statements I've made, it's among other things. Because the Workers' Party has claimed that there are 4 000 entrepreneurs who will not receive a start-up loan, with what we have proposed. It is not because, within the framework we have available, we are going to give priority to the more social functions and funding of the first-home banking functions within the House Bank in relation to general housing. And so it's not that it's just the House Bank that finances housing construction or housing purchase in Norway. The vast majority of the purchasers do not have the opportunity to go to the House Bank and get the subsidised loan that the representative Eye mentions. Anyone who is over 35 years of age and who is not within the share of the purchase loan scheme, which is a rather limited scheme of income support for young people under 35 years of age, is currently referred to the banking market which, according to Eyes, has a significantly higher interest rate. [[The President clubs.]] [[(President clubs):]] And then the question is, is it necessarily the social profile we're going to have, that those who build new ones are going to get, while those who have to buy, not [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1020	The President is again obliged to draw attention to the fact that it is contemptuous for the rest of the Storting to go beyond the speaking time set aside for each of the lines. You have plenty of time to land on your reasoning after the lamp starts to light. Of course, the President should continue to be flexible, so you can finish the sentence you're doing, but once again, you don't start new reasoning when you're out of speaking time. The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1025	Let me begin by saying that for many years the Parliamentary composition of the Grand Duchy has made it difficult to get some particular speed on the necessary conversion work in order to modernise, renew and streamline public activities. The result of having neglected the conversion work in the public sector for a number of years is now seen in the form of low efficiency, long-term health cows, a medium-term education system, failure to care for the elderly and very high operational costs of public activities. However, the last fall of the Storting elections gave the country a new government and a new large number, where the Progress Party is central. This new large number should provide us with a significantly better starting point for the most urgent reform of the public sector. It is now not least up to the new municipal minister, Erna Solberg from the Right, to show up as a driving force in the modernisation of public activities. There should be no lack of support from the Progress Party for assistance for the slaughter of sacred cows in the public administration. This concerns specific support for reforms related to the municipal service monopoly, the existence of county municipalities, the income system and district policy. And perhaps first of all, the county councils should be closed down. Both the Right and the Advance Party have programmed, and even suggested in Stortinget, to wind up the county municipality. I hope and believe that this view will also quickly gain increasing understanding in the Christian People's Party, because we should all realize that when the county hospital responsibilities fall out of the new year, the county council's heaviest and most important task disappears. The county councils are then left behind without being given sufficient new tasks that are close to being able to legitimize the further eligibility of the county councils. Decommissioning counties will be a good idea in the efficiency accounts for Norway AS. Another important step that will be taken in the efficiency accounting is to expose services production to competition in the municipal sector. The public sector can no longer continue to be a protected monopoly sector which is exempt from any normal market exposure in terms of choice, quality and cost. By doing so, I believe that the obsolete municipal welfare monopoly must be abolished. These victorious holy cows, that the municipalities have always had an almost exclusive right to provide the citizens with the public-funded welfare services in health, care, education and much more, we now need to do something about it. Free competition between private and public providers to provide publicly funded welfare services is the future. Therefore, the Storting must now immediately facilitate increased competition for the provision of welfare services by making the VAT compensation law general, as proposed by the Progress Party. We therefore promote this important proposal and, of course, hope for the support of the government parties. If we are to renew the public, it is really a simple philosophy that can be applied. As far as possible competition, closure of county councils, promotion of community mergers and inter-municipal cooperation, and, in particular, introduction of state-subsidised price financing for all basic welfare services. But to do this, we also need politicians who dare to think new, and who can and are able to act afterwards. My heartfelt desire and hope is that, after this election, there will now be a majority in this Chamber who will agree to this, and who will be able to show that we are in charge of a policy and can implement a policy that will be in the best interests of the public and public sector, and will lead to a reform that should have really been started a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1036	In the Sem statement, the government promised something we thought was very good, and that was to bet on housing. In particular, this was pronounced in relation to the big cities and – probably after the Christian People's Party had had its say – in relation to a bet on rental properties for disadvantaged people. As I said earlier from the pulpit, this is great. The problem is that the government said this in the statement and then turns around and does something completely different when it's about to implement and implement policies. And it's a huge problem. So for those people who think it's necessary to do something to build more homes in the country, this budget doesn't help to turn the arrow so it points in the right direction. For the problem is that the government cuts out the loans to the House Bank, they cut out the grants for youth housing, and they cut out the possibility of using state land for housing. We in SV believe that having a place to live is a human right. Then, as I said in a line here earlier, there's a problem that for five consecutive years you point out that there's a bunch of people who are homeless, especially here in Oslo, and there's nothing happening to make sure that the people who lack a place to live get just that. And in my opinion, that's not right what the Council said in its reply to me earlier, that's that it's doing something, and that's what's going on. The point is that organisations are in line, for example: The Church's Bymission, and they say they're willing to do this. OBOS, the housing team, says, "We're willing to take care of the housing environment, that is. build and operate dwellings here. Then it's just for the parties who have power in the Municipality of Oslo and at national level to say, "We have the money! – so that we can put this offer in place in a proper way. This applies to the homeless. They are particularly exposed in a housing market like the Norwegian one, where there are too few dwellings for everyone. Everyone who knows about the market knows that when there are too few homes, it's the people who have the least money, who fall outside, and the people who have the least money, they're the ones who need the most help. Norway is in a special class in European context by the fact that we have very few rental homes. Only 4 pst. of the total market of dwellings are dwellings that have a social rental purpose, and it is very, very small. So the government says they'll set up more of their housing policy to help the people who need a mortgage, and that kind of thing. But the housing market is more complicated than that. There's two things we have to do if we're going to make sure to have a good housing market and get people somewhere to live. One is to facilitate the construction of more dwellings in general. Then, of course, we have to make sure that those people who need a special offer are given such an offer, and that it is funded by the public. However, the worse the housing market works – in that you do not provide cheap loans for the construction of dwellings – the fewer homes you will get. Here I think the Council of State is a little shortsighted. And I didn't realize it when she said that the mortgage was subsidised. They're not. They are not subsidized. But that's what the council said – she heard what she said? The point is that these loans are cheaper than other loans. And why are they? Well, that's because the government isn't interested in picking up the profit that the rest of the ordinary banking market has to do. The house bank does not depend on the same type of security as a normal bank requires of people who are going to buy a dwelling, or on the construction of a dwelling. In fact, there has been a positive event in Oslo in the last year in relation to having more dwellings built, namely that the House Bank has been prepared to finance a larger part of the loans in the construction of new buildings. You used to be skeptical. You didn't give more than 50 pst. of the loan, which led to the House Bank not playing a significant role in the Oslo region. But now you've been willing to give more money, and you've been willing to fund up to 70 pst. of the amount of the loan. The whole point is that if you now choose to prioritize less money on this type of housing and more money just to have the Husbank as a first home bank, it means less housing and worse conditions for people most in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1055	I have to be allowed to remind the previous speaker that it is just SV who is agreeing to cut 26 million. kr to obtain a study funding that will only work from 1 November next year. This is becoming paradoxical. The majority of the Committee considers that it is important that public sector solutions remain subject to local and regional democratic governance. The majority expressed its opinion on the 2002 Community proposal. An overall committee at that time pointed to the very central role of the municipal sector, among others. as a provider of important welfare services. Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, showing international surveys. However, I get many concerns about the imbalance between tasks and income in the municipal sector. I'm afraid we can experience that many local politicians give up if we don't fix this. If we are to take care of our democratic values, we must take these concerns seriously. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the cooperative government's proposal for the 2002 government budget represents a real growth of approximately DKK 3.8 billion, i.e., as has been said before in the debate, an increase of nearly 250 million. kr more than the government Stoltenberg's proposal. This is doing something about this imbalance. There are many positive elements in the budget for the districts, and for the part of the country I represent, North Norway. The North Norway grant shall continue to be price-adjusted and the majority shall ask the Government to continue the grant. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, indicates that the Government will reduce the threshold impact of the regional grant, and expects the Government to promote proposals for such a conversion in the municipal economic proposition for 2003. I would also like to point out that a joint committee asks the Government to assess whether municipalities within the Action Zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark, located outside Action Area A, should be included in this. One of the most important regional policy instruments we have is SIVA. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Christian People's Party that SIVA's investments in physical infrastructure for innovation environments and industrial enterprises play a major role in the development and innovation of districts' businesses. I am very pleased that a joint committee agreed that SIVA's ability to invest should be increased by extending the loan framework in the treasury as early as 2002. This implies that a number of projects, such as: construction for telemedicine in Tromsø, can be realised. An extension of the loan framework will mean that several other projects of major regional policy significance can be realised. The debate on the 2002 budget has largely focused on combating the problem of poverty and measures for those with the weakest assumptions. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore gratifying that all parties support the proposal to ask the Government to establish a state top-funding for resource-intensive users and to propose this in the 2003 Municipal Proposition. The Committee considers that there is a need for an action plan to recruit physically disabled persons for public sector posts. I would also like to point out that an overall committee indicates that the Government will now focus on detecting, investigating and qualifying jobseekers with reading and writing difficulties. Giving these an offer is important. The Committee has been involved in ASVO work for several years. This is a very important offer for those who make the most of their working life. There is now evidence that 770 are registered on the waiting list for ASVO. It is gratifying that the Committee points to the need for a stepping-up plan. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Policy in relation to Sami relations. All, except the Progress Party, refer to the last year's budgetary position regarding grants to the Lulesamian centre of Arran. The same majority believe that it is important to strengthen the role of Sameting as a precursor to the Government and as a responsible body for the development of the Sami society. The majority have underlined the importance of the work on bilingualism and its costs. The majority also agree that the Same People's Fund should not be used for individual claims and that the Same People's Fund should be managed by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1076	There is every reason to begin by congratulating the Right who is a political winner of this round of budgets. In several areas and especially in district policy, the Christian People's Party has changed sides in a few weeks and is now making its right-hand cut in political instruments for District Norway. It must be something that can really be called a political saltomortal. With this plurality, it can be difficult to achieve the goal of developing a district policy that is so tempting that people will bust themselves and create something in the districts. I want to raise some issues about this. Firstly, is there any reason to have an active district policy? Is it any longer an important political goal to build people in all branches and communities where there is a settlement today? And is it important to cultivate forest and land in this tiny country far north? And can we imagine a travel life without a living village and a beautiful cultural landscape? I mention this in order to highlight the importance of an active district policy, and not least to recall the cross-political objective of a society in which quality of life combined with work will give individuals a good and evolving life, while creating values for the community locally, nationally and internationally. An active and good district policy is therefore important in view of our children's desire to live there and wish to live there for the rest of their lives. A good rural policy is about developing new products based on local raw materials. It is about marketing, and it is about good distribution networks at acceptable prices. Furthermore, a good and forward-looking district policy is not just a rural policy. It is also a policy for small and medium-sized cities, so that they can be an attractive alternative to the four-five major urban areas we have in the country. This was a policy I believed the Christian People's Party was a guarantor, but I find after this budget setting that I was wrong. So another area. A good public labour market policy is decisive for the quality of life of most. It's a crossroads of thought that there are several thousand new people who every year get dissatisfaction. It is not a problem in itself that those who need it get dissatisfaction, but it is a problem if the working life is not enough inclusive so that everyone with work skills gets involved. Public sector here is nothing better than private business, unfortunately. That's why I'm glad that a co-consultant committee thinks there's a need for an action plan to recruit physical disabilities for public sector settings. The unemployment rate is rising, while in several areas there is a shortage of labour. This challenge does not solve it by sitting quietly and paying out daily money or by cutting Aetat's permissions. The response must be qualification and dissemination measures by increasing the number of places of action, as proposed by the Labour Party, and by following up and intensifying the work of an inclusive working life, where Aetat is a central player. Quality of life is about having a good everyday life. Many people with disabilities are an important resource that we need to take care of by facilitating their employment and rehabilitation. For some of the disabled people, PV, ASV and ASVO are important measures in this way, but the need is much greater than what we can now offer. Therefore, we need to create a stepping-up plan for several ASVO locations. Apart from 800 disabled workers, such measures are awaited. It would be desirable if the extension of action sites to take place next year would result in 500 new ASVO sites. Today’s response structure is complex and unclear. Therefore, it is positive that this is now being cleaned up by merging and simplifying the back-up system. I also want to pay attention to the fact that several of these companies wear out financially and have red numbers in their accounts. If these measures are to be successful, it is important that both the State and the municipality jointly facilitate positive economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1097	I was really just going to talk about the labour market. But initially, I want to take a little distance from the impression that's been made here, that the Right is a district enemy party. There may be disagreement about instruments, but that it should be so that there are the parties on the left of the Right who have a monopoly on being occupied by parts of the country other than the capital, I will strongly distance myself from. As far as my own area is concerned, although it is on the side of this budget chapter, I would at least like to assure the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen that we will both continue and intensify work on the relocation of state institutions as part of the modernisation of the public sector. But that's not what I was primarily going to talk about. I want to link my comments to the debate with what I see as the main challenges in the labour market. In the short term, it is a clear challenge to tackle the imbalance that may arise from problems and downsizing in some sectors, such as industry and the IT industry, in parallel with the fact that we still have large unmet labour needs in the care sector and other services sectors. We should follow closely the development of unemployment. We have noticed that the Statistical Central Bureau has just made a new estimate of the unemployment rate for next year. They think it might be a little bit higher than we've suggested in the supplemental proposition of Stortinget. We'll follow that closely. However, for the time being, we believe that the level of normal labour market measures is adapted to the labour market situation. We are therefore more concerned that these measures really function as qualification measures in relation to the sectors in need of labour. However, we will continue to assess whether the scope of the measures is sufficient. In the longer term, the main problem in Norway remains a shortage of labour. It's important that we don't lose sight of it, even though the labour market would turn out to be a little slower than we've been used to in recent years. This means that efforts to prevent exclusion and to include people with disabilities and others currently out of the labour market must continue to have a high priority. The issue of exclusion can become even more serious in a weaker labour market, and we will therefore place great emphasis on following up the commitments made by both the State and the social partners in the Memorandum of Understanding, including: to raise the actual retirement age. We're taking the intention agreement seriously, and we're going to do what we can to make sure that the other parties to the agreement, too, take it seriously. I'm convinced that both the NHO and the LO are doing this. In connection with Mr Andersen's comments, I would like to remind you that the Memorandum of Understanding does not, of course, prohibit freedom of expression in Norway. People in both the LO and NHO must be allowed to express what they think, but organisations are obliged by the measures of the agreement, and so is the State. With regard to the work to include people with disabilities, it is important that the specific labour market measures contribute both to the integration of those who are in a position to participate in normal working life and to include good, especially organised, measures for the weakest. I have noticed that the committee wants more ASVO sites and permanent job placements, and I am happy to follow them up. I also want to clarify in connection with the disabled, that the State as an employer also has a special responsibility. I have noticed the wish of the Committee on an action plan for the recruitment of people with disabilities. The long-term need for more labour also makes us firm on the objective of facilitating increased labour migration. In this context, we will continue to work to soften the rules in this area. Aetat is an important tool in creating a well-functioning labour market in Norway, and I am convinced that it will be an even better tool through the delimitation and efficiency of its ongoing activities. The main task of the agency in the future will be to qualify unemployed and disabled people for work and to provide the market with adequate information about job seekers and their qualifications. However, we do not solve the fundamental problems of combining inclusion and social protection, as long as we see Aetat and social services separately. In particular, there is a clear need to see work, social security and social services in the context. Many users rely on services from both the Aetat and the social security system and on the social services provided by local authorities. For this reason, in the process of modernising the public sector, as one of the main areas of activity, we will have a full review of the area of work, social security and social services, with a view to coordinating, simplifying and correcting users of what is being done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1121	There is no doubt that ASVO actions are key and good actions. Many people have a lot to contribute only to follow-up and organisation based on their own preferences. For a long time now, there has been a discussion about what kind of pay, i.e. bonus pay, these employees should have. So far, as elsewhere in the world of work, this has been a matter between employers and employees. The difference is that while other employees are paid e.g. in the case of sickness, these workers are paid in the event of absence. This is a very unfair experience. Another issue is whether the individual in the ASVO company should be paid and not insured for the job being done. Social security may in this way be transferred as an additional salary to the enterprise. I know this is happening in some companies today, but it only applies with the consent of the individual. It might have been interesting to ask the Council of State if it has any desire to take an initiative in this direction. Finally, there is any increase in the interest rate of ASVO, as announced by the Council of State in meeting with the Committee. This is very good, but I have suggested that such an increase in take-off rates will not go beyond the objective, i.e. that the net effect of new action places should be 1 750 new places in total. I ask the Council of State to confirm that it is still on track, that there should be a target of a net of 1 750 new places in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1130	The answer to the last question is yes. The target of 1750 spaces is fixed. We are reviewing the arrangements for all of the specially arranged places to ensure that we can make room for a slightly higher rate of support for ASVO companies without jeopardising the overall target figure – so it is fixed. With regard to the question of the working conditions of ASVO companies more generally, I would like to stress what the representative himself said, namely that this is largely a matter of agreement between the employer and the employee. But I want to go through all the framework conditions that relate to ASVO companies. They are a very important tool to include vulnerable groups that should be in the labour market, and we need to ensure that we have an overall approach to it. In this context, there is also a direct link between this issue and the general question I mentioned in my main article, which reviews the whole area of work, social security and social services to ensure that we get an overall approach to the question of how to combine inclusion efforts with well-functioning social security measures and with a well-functioning community social services. And this is one of the questions that naturally arise in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1137	I noticed that State Council Victor D. Norman devoted part of his contribution to the need for increased labour migration, and here is probably one of those areas where the Right and Advance Party have a somewhat different view. I would like to wonder at those parties that still seem to believe that increased labour immigration of even unskilled labour from outside the EEA area is necessary for Norway. We're in a period where there's some increasing unemployment. At present, there are some 60,000–70 000 unemployed in Norway. We have hundreds of thousands working in half or other fractions. We have overemployment in agriculture and general government. So we have – that is my point – a labour reserve in Norway in total that should make labour imports from outside the EEA redundant. Another thing that I want to address is something else that the Council of State mentioned in its article, and that I myself have been concerned about in my articles, and that is a review of public regulations, of competition policy. I understood the Council of State up there that he put up to be a driver to get this important work through in the public business. I look forward to the results that will come as a result of the modernisation work that, among other things, State Council Victor D. Norman adds up to, and he seems to be adamantly needed for. We have too much anti-competitiveness in the Norwegian government. Here's a lot of work to do, so I respect that it takes time, but I'd like to ask, how long do we have to wait before we see any results of what the Council of State has started?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1148	It was nice that the representative Torbjørn Andersen now also included the Minister of Labour and Administration in the modernisation programme, for in the past it was the municipal minister who was given full responsibility for this by the same representative, but thank you for that. On the matter of the pace of modernisation work, I would like to come back to that in connection with the special statement I will give in January in Stortingen on that issue. With regard to the issue of labour migration versus the question of mobilising the labour reserve in Norway, the answer is very simple: we need both. Looking ahead from a 10–20–30 year perspective in Norway, we do not have a general dependency problem in Norway. In economic terms, we have a good ability to deal with those who are not going to be in working life in 20-30 years, but we have a manning problem, very simple. The ratio between working and unemployed will develop in such an unfavourable direction over the next 10–20–30 years that we need to mobilise everything we can get from labour reserves both domestically and abroad. And then I just want to repeat what I said in my main post: we're facing a very big challenge in keeping that line clear, if we're going to go into a short period of a slightly slower labour market. The experience we had from the first part of the 1990s was that short-term unemployment led to massive, long-term exclusion from work, and we simply cannot afford it if we are to be able to offer pensioners, children, disabled people and disabled people a useful offer in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1157	I would first like to say that the last part of the Council's reasoning is fully shared by SV. I am also pleased that the Council of State decided that the agreement concluded with the social partners to reduce sick leave is permanent. That freedom of expression applies is okay, but I will ask the Council of State if he does not believe that it is a good idea that those who have concluded such an agreement, in which case use it with some wisdom and care, and do not behave so that doubts about it were expressed at the first crossroads. In fact, it is a majority of the Storing population who would think of supporting this rather quickly if the Government did not now stand firm on the agreement and show safe views on it. So to another important topic, and that's conversion and privatisation. We in SV have listened with interest to what the Council of State has said, among other things. in the throne debate, and we have recorded that there has been professional weight and integrity in what the Council of State has said, despite the great political disagreement there is between SV and Right at this point. But we fear that the Council of State is a wolf in sheep's clothing, especially because we now see what is happening in the Storting. For here, in late night hours, the decision is made, among other things. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party of the Committee on Transport have been involved in converting the Post, the NSB and the Swedish Aviation Agency into AS without having at all discussed it with the administration or the employees. And then I want to take up what the Council of State said in its article in the throne debate: ‘The fourth and final main principle of modernisation is that it must be anchored by employees. Good public services require enthusiasm and in-progress with those providing the services. A process in which the employees in the worst case are opposed, and at best only the half-hearted are involved, will not lead to the goal. We will therefore pay great attention both to listening to the organisations of employees and to involving them strongly in the work." Will the Council of State follow this up with its party colleagues and tell them that such a process that we have now witnessed is not acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1171	The president had some doubts about the term "wolf in sheep's clothing", but he assumes it was an assessment and not a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1175	No problem. The council can at least confirm that he has sheep's clothing, for this suit is as far as I know, of wool. I think the family can confirm that the council is not very aggressive, so wolfishly I think it might be a little problematic. In addition, the Council of State would like to say that it is hardly the right to advise representatives of the organisations to remain silent – so I think I should refrain from commenting on how freedom of expression should be used in the organisations. I maintain what I said: the organisations are obliged by the agreement, and we feel convinced that both the NHO and the LO will loyally follow up the commitment agreement. When it comes to the question of what happens in late night hours in committees in the Storting, the council knows very little about it, because he tends to sleep at night. And so did he this night. I want to stress very strongly what I have said before, that it is important to involve the employees in the modernisation work. But I also want to stress that on this issue of limited liability companies, which in some way now has become a very big and far too dramatic issue, it seems to me that you are mixing the question of corporate form with the question of privatisation. The form of the public limited liability company is a suitable, good way to organise an enterprise. It gives very clear lines of responsibility. It makes it very clear what is the owner's responsibility, and what is the company's own responsibility. And at the same time, to the extent that you want to use the form of a limited liability company to attach special purposes or restrictions to the business, there are almost no restrictions you can't include in the statutes of a limited liability company. Therefore, I personally believe that the media have today unnecessarily dramatized this question of the choice of company form for these businesses. And I think the key issues in modernising and reorganizing are completely different from the legal status of companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1186	It is good that, in a short time, the Council of State has followed up with a clean, simple and manageable code for labour market enterprises, so that it is possible for them to have even more than today in work. It is now apparent from the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget proposal that there are also other measures for the disabled. For example, when it applies to the payroll scheme, it is said that almost 60 pst. of the professionally handicapped people who tried to work with that scheme returned to work. The flexible job scheme, which is intended to be specifically targeted at people who, over periods of life, have good working capacity and correspondingly reduced working capacity in other periods, is said to have failed. My question is, is it the employer's page that is an obstacle, or are there other obstacles? I found it particularly necessary to have this confirmed or cancelled today when I see that the employer's side is so strongly out of work and flag the sickness scheme as an obstacle to getting more people into the labour market. So for the modernisation and renewal of the public sector. I am pleased that the Council of State is so precise that it is possible to introduce different elements in the event of privatisation and postponement of competition. Is he, with the background of what he introduced when it came to district policy, busy with taking care so that not the competitive outsourcing and privatisation that he now had to plan seems centralizing and seems different from the country around when it comes to what we have to offer today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1193	As to the question of why there are different types of measures to include people with disabilities who can go into normal work so that they actually get into it, it is clear that it has a lot to do both with the way we deal with the instrument on the state side and with attitudes outside the companies and partly within the organisations. This is why the Memorandum of Understanding provides for both another way of managing and organising the instruments — we are following this with a lot of closer cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Administration in implementing the measures — and it proposes that companies commit themselves to being inclusive employment enterprises and thereby work with the internal culture on these issues. We intend to emphasise that state-owned businesses are going to lead by example like IA companies, and we are going to work closely against, and together with, the NHO to ensure that we get a lot of private IA companies. And then I think we're also going to see that the tools work better. Just to remove any doubt, since the question has now been raised both by Meltveit Kleppa and Andersen: there are enough opinions in the Government regarding the question of what kind of sickness pay scheme we should have in Norway, but we have concluded an agreement that means that we should use instruments other than reforms in the sickness pay scheme to solve this problem. Let's see if it works. We're going to give it a good, real chance, but that doesn't mean that we've committed ourselves in the future to refrain from answering the question of the sickness pay scheme. In terms of modernisation and innovation, my clear objective and wish that this should not be counter-regional. One of the ways to do this is to open up that we should not have the same models and solutions in all parts of the country and in all kinds of municipalities – regardless of how large they are or where they are. I believe that modernisation work that allows us to have a diversity of tailored solutions will be much more district friendly than a model that means that we should have the same solution all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1204	State Council Norman pointed out in his speech that we see a stronger trend towards increasing unemployment in our country. For the Labour Party, therefore, it is crucial to have a greater scope in the action areas. We are particularly concerned about this because we want to facilitate the qualification of people for the labour market, which they should return to as soon as possible. I feel that the Government of Bondevik is somewhat defensive in this field and is largely content to propose extra funds for daily allowance. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the Government come back with proposals to increase the number of action places in the revised national budget? In a number of areas of our society, we actually lack labour. It also points to the Council of State in its article. I think it is important to stimulate older workers to stay longer in work than what is now the situation of too many. The current AFP scheme states that one can earn up to NOK 4000 per year. years in addition to the pension, it has no negative economic consequences for those in debt. This does not inspire the use of residual forms of work. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Labour: will he help increase the income limit to 1 G in order to motivate more workers to use the residual work habits?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1211	With regard to the issue of multiple places of action, I would like to stress that we need to see it not only in relation to unemployment, but also in relation to the groups behind the increase in unemployment. What has so far been the case is that there are, to a large extent, people who come from service activities or those who come from the IT industry who have become unemployed. This is, as we judge it, people who are primarily important to get into other work as quickly as possible. They do not lack qualifications, but they need to ensure that they are well disseminated. We're not just going to have looked very closely at the volume of the vacancy, but also at which groups go out of work, to see what need there is for more qualifying places. This means that, in the context of the revised national budget, we will come back to the question, without saying here that we will necessarily propose more places. This depends on both the amount and composition of the time off we had to get over the winter. As regards the question of the AFP, the answer is: the Council of State does not want to contribute to the setting of the income limit at 1 G. Not because he doesn't want to get retired people back to work, but because he's concerned that we won't get any more young pensioners. When the 1 G limit was replaced by a slingshot of NOK 4000, it had a clear positive effect on the number of new AFP pensioners. I'm very afraid to go back to the scheme we had in the past, which meant that in practice we encouraged much stronger exclusion than the workers themselves and society served. That being said, it's clear that $4,000 is not a magic number. You might want to discuss whether you should have a slightly higher number, but to go up to 1 G has, I think you could say, from past experience, a very unfortunate effect on the number of AFPs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1218	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1221	The Labour Party attaches great importance to having municipal self-government and equivalent welfare provision in all parts of our country. We know that the municipalities and county councils are doing most of the public service production. It is therefore crucial that the same municipalities and municipalities are given economic conditions that enable them to provide the services needed by the population. The government of Stoltenberg's financial arrangement for the municipal sector facilitates this. The proposal represents a real growth in the total revenue for the sector of approximately DKK 3.5 billion. It is positive that the action space for the municipal sector is increasing. The free income is 1 775 million. kr higher in 2002 than in 2001. The government of Stoltenberg proposed an offensive bet for kindergartens with a further DKK 1 billion next year. The funds are to be used to provide and operate more space and to reduce your parent's payment. The previous government also made proposals to increase the coverage by 4000 places within the elderly care system. It was also proposed to spend more money on mental health and an extra effort on upgrading school buildings. All these are good measures that provide better well-being in our country. We get more and better services for the inhabitants around our municipalities. The Bondevik II Government has presented a draft budget with new estimates for economic development. A substantial part of these funds will be used by the Workers' Party for tax relief for those who have the lowest income. The rate of the minimum subtraction increases by 2 percentage points. This results in lower tax revenues for municipalities, which is fully compensated for by the Workers' Party. In its final municipal plan for 2002, the Labour Party will increase the working space by more than 600 million. kr. Of these, 85 million are added to the frame. kr in addition to the compensation for the loss of tax revenue. These are the revenues that we would like to use for increasing child protection, schooling, Norwegian training and a discount scheme for young people in public transport. In addition, the Labour Party will increase the earmarked funds for the local government sector by NOK 387.5 million. These funds must include: It is used for the provision of health care to drug addicts, for drug-prevention work and for the provision of further training. The municipal scheme for the Workers' Party next year provides a good basis for the public service in our country. We're going to give 445.5 million. kr more in favour of the municipal sector than the plurality, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, add up. It will probably be noticed around municipalities and municipalities. In the Labour Party we understand that many municipalities and municipalities are in a depressed economic situation. That's why we're asking the government to give a thorough presentation of the problems. We want the Government to outline measures to correct the financial imbalances. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party reject such work. Their comments simply state that ‘the development of the local economy is pointing towards stabilisation and improvement’. Such a view does not guarantee that the government party will provide something special to make a sound economy in municipalities and county municipalities that do not know how to order their budgets. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs outlines a solution in the Evening Post yesterday: the big cities will get more money, small municipalities less. That procedure becomes too simple. The economic imbalance in the municipal sector is not only dependent on the population. I would like to encourage State Council Solberg to create a municipality scheme for 2003 that will enable municipalities to fulfil their tasks – whether it is a large municipality in the city, an indigenous municipality in the Austland or a coastal municipality in Northern Norway or in the West. If we're going to get a healthier economy in the municipal sector, we have to be willing to spend more money there, not just redeployment. The state makes large transfers to municipalities and county municipalities. It's still necessary. But it's not enough. In municipalities, one also depends on a well-functioning business that is inspired by innovation, conversion and value creation. In this work, active regional policy instruments are very important. In this area, the Bondevik II Government is completely failing, with dramatic reductions, or the removal of territorial and regional policy concessions and the removal of the promises of the innovation programme proposed by the Stoltenberg Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1242	The word «Work nobles man» is as current today as it was before. Work provides a basis for income and membership. Work gives self-respect and self-esteem. For most people, work is the most important safeguard against exclusion and poverty. Work is important both for individuals and for the country. It is a common objective of the Committee that work should be as broad as possible, that working life should be more inclusive, and that conditions should be set in such a way as to make room for all. Today, too many people are ill or ill, and too many people leave early on retirement. It is gratifying that a unanimous committee stresses the importance of an inclusive working life, where all those with a job capacity will have the opportunity to participate. Today, the unemployment rate among disabled people is high. The same applies to the leave of immigrants. There is also an overall committee that underlines the need for an action plan to recruit physically disabled people for public sector jobs. Despite both recruitment plan and local action plans, non-Western jobseekers are struggling to get work. Education does not help dark skins – they do not let into the labour market, we could read in the Evening Post Monday edition. It is quite appropriate when City Councillor Torger Ødegaard in Oslo punishes employers and asks them to ignore the skin color when hiring new employees, for as he says: ‘There is no reason for them not to employ qualified applicants with a minority background.’ As State Council Norman briefed on, the unemployment rate is now increasing. But even if we get an increase in the short term, we're still going to have low leave. There is pressure on the labour market, and there is a shortage of labour, especially in education, health and care. It is a great cross of thought that in Norway we have set ourselves such that sick leave is both high and expensive, and that the number of disabled persons is also high. It is gratifying that the Storting is taking the challenges of working life seriously and is giving the Government the leadership of the work ahead. The Committee considers that there is now a need for a comprehensive communication on labour market and employment policy in the 21st century. The government has taken good steps to secure employment, business and housing. In order to maintain rural settlements and ensure viable communities throughout the country, it is essential to think new and be forward-looking. The members of the Committee of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party ask the Government to ensure that public funds are directed more towards research and empowerment, as well as towards the development and implementation of new technologies. This will best ensure a varied business life, with productive and profitable jobs. This is good district policy. And it is better with good framework conditions for everyone than selective measures for individuals. Therefore, tax reliefs in the budget of the year are essential. It is gratifying that the Solberg Council will now address the many challenges facing major cities. In cities, it has long been said that the country has not had a good enough policy on the specific urban problems associated with poverty, the integration of immigrants, job creation and housing policies. As previous rapporteur in Skien, I know that a number of requests have been made to the magnificence and government on the occasion of the case, but unfortunately the willingness to implement changes was not sufficiently present in the Stoltenberg government. Governments are now focusing on the city and all its challenges. It's gonna be late, but it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1269	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1272	In this debate, the Centre Party has put forward several proposals that would give better conditions in the municipalities where we live and where we receive different services. It shouldn't be a secret that the Center Party has wanted more money for the municipal sector. But as everyone knows, the different distribution keys that form the basis of the transfer system to the municipalities are mostly based on population numbers. Some kind of averaging is done on the basis of the law of large numbers. One might think a lot about tight frames and averages, but there's going to be another debate. Now I want to point to one area where the averaging calculations are going to be completely wrong. This applies to resource-intensive users. The growth of this user group is not reflected in the framework. In particular, the group is increasing in heavy psychiatry, intoxication and traffic damage. In this context, we are talking about people where costs are between 1 and 2 million. NOK, yes up to SEK 3 million. kr per. years. It's also random where these cases show up. The current system is such that the municipality actually bears all the costs, i.e.: where the cost exceeds NOK 600 000, it shall be reported to the county. A grant from the discretionary funds available to the county is then granted. In my municipality, the discretion is equivalent to NOK 20 000 per person. person. It's not very much, and it's not unique to Gausdal. It is said that this imposes a heavy burden on the local government budget, which unfortunately will go beyond some other things. This has the bulk of the population taken inwards, and in the setting that we are dealing with today, it says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a state top funding for resource-intensive users. The Government is asked to submit proposals in the 2003 municipal proposal.’» However, this means that the scheme can enter into force as from 1 January 2003 at the earliest. The center party is ready to go further. In the past, we have made the following proposals: ‘A top-level funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. Municipalities pay a dividend of NOK 600 000. The state pays 80 pst. in addition to this, the costs.’» It's a shame that the bulk of the population has not been willing to agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1299	I allow myself – under the strict time frame of the meeting management – to link a short article to a very small note in today's setting. There is a closed border regulation case in More and Romesdal. We have a disaggregation law that says that such cases should not end up in this room at all. This case was the last one that was treated according to old legal texts, where complicated matters could be sent to Stortinget. The argument in such cases is that local wishes should be met. The Storting's previous treatment of these cases explicitly pointed out that there were others who should be heard. It was pointed out how to act using referendums, and the case was sent back for government treatment. In retrospect, after the decision was taken, there was a referendum that clearly indicated the relevance of this indication of the interests of other circles. The majority of the committee shall have an cryptic note that the Government, or the Council of State, may intervene and return to the Grand Duchy with it. It should be possible to provide an explanation in this room of what is actually meant by this, whether it is intended to give the Council of State a signal that the forthcoming transfer should be frozen, or whether it is intended that if the Council of State considers that the new information should be taken into account, the Government may decide for another result, i.e. that the decision taken by the previous government is supported. There is considerable fresh knowledge in the Storting on this matter, through relatively fresh documents and a little bit of memory. My appeal in this matter is that the members of the Committee, the Grand Duchy and the Council of State should make more clear what are the possibilities and limitations of such an observation. The intention of my post under this tight time frame was – if possible – to clarify more clearly what the objective is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1312	If the President is perceived to be strict, that's the point. The total speaking time today is calculated at almost eleven hours, and for the sake of those who are going to sit here tonight, I think we must be strict this morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1315	As a meeting alternate and with daily work in a rapporteur's chair, it is with special interest that I take part in this debate. I would like to begin by expressing my disappointment at the lack of follow-up of the committee majority, among other things. This year's election campaign, where the members of the committee and others here in the house made many promises to our inhabitants. It is worrying that those who are to provide these services are not able to perform the job satisfactorily. I have also noticed with concern the majority, and not least the Council of State, the desire to make a significant redistribution of the municipal funds. In fact, I allow myself to ask if a person really believes that the offer is too good in the smaller municipalities. It would have been interesting if the state council on a later occasion had answered that question. The proposal to remove the municipal food funds is also alarming and clearly shows ‘the new course of rural policy’. Finally, a little bit about agricultural offices. I have personally followed this matter carefully from the day that the municipalities assumed responsibility for these offices, and have come to understand that criteria were to be introduced to fulfil the specific tasks of the agricultural municipalities. It hasn't happened. Money that has gone to agricultural management every year is now to be redeployed and used for completely different purposes in many municipalities, while in the future the municipalities with active agriculture and large agricultural land have to re-prioritise from, for example, in the future. school and care for the performance of statutory tasks within the agricultural management. Here are some examples: Oslo Municipality gets an increase from just over $200,000 to nearly $40 million. kr, while many agricultural municipalities receive a reduction from 1 to 2 million. kr to button 200000 kr, or 20-30 pst. of past transfers. Cuts in the million class mean a lot of jobs, and that's not what we're talking about in the budgets of small municipalities. It is with pleasure and expectation that I note that the Committee is asking for a new review of the allocation of these 350 million it is actually talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1335	It is alarming when the representative, Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, former Minister of Finance and former Chairman of the Financial Committee, announces that the Labour Party cannot take responsibility for the framework in area 6 and wishes to vote against the entire budget in field 6. Several times in the last five years of budgetary reform, the opposition has disagreed very much with the Government, but without taking the step of voting against the entire framework. I hope this is the last time the Workers' Party is demonstrating such a great unwillingness as they have now. Then I would like to comment on the response of the representative Karin Andersen to my reply earlier today. I am shocked when SV says that it is okay that transfers to student homes can be cut as long as the scholarship goes up. It is even from 1 November the grant share goes up – two months before the Cooperative Government would have set it up. When we know that the other counterparts are monthly payments of scholarships and student loans and also a conversion scheme, I ask myself, what has happened to SV's principles? I commend myself happily, also on behalf of SV, that SV does not participate in more majority voting than one. Then I think the SV had really given their principles on the boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1342	I understand that a young Right-man falls very heavy on his chest that it is SV who has managed to secure 40 pst. scholarship share for the students, and that it is very difficult for them to swallow. But I can assure the representative Gitmark that there are many crossroads before 1 November where we can get more money, including for student homes. One crossroads is at a reclassification rate currently under treatment in the Storting. SV is working for this, and the Right is invited to support it. In addition, we have a revised national budget on the stairs. In this context, there are a lot of good opportunities for this. The principle of increasing the grant rate is very important for SV. Of course, we are not happy that we had to cut there. On the contrary, we want to work morning, dinner and evening to get more money for housing, also for student housing. The homeless was a theme in place, in a dialogue between the SV and the Council of State. I have to attach some notes to it, because here's the question of putting in place a more active system than what we have today. Both Stortinget and the Council of State know that the municipalities do not do their job. On the contrary, municipalities now act as the municipality of Oslo, as pure house sharks. Municipalities rent out at market prices and do not have enough active means to help those who are homeless. The SV's agenda has been that the state should be much more active and go in and add the right tools, precisely because this is a municipal apparatus that fails. We can't sit and watch this. It's actually people who don't have a place to live. I will challenge the Council of State again: does the Council of State not see that, when it comes to the homeless, there is actually a need for more active instruments also from the Government and the Council of State? Then to the debate on the sickness pay scheme. I register that the Council of State Norman will not go in and give advice to a party to the agreement. I strongly disagree with that. The State is one of the contracting parties here. It is very important that this agreement be kept and that it is not confused or doubted by any of the parties. I perceive that the state has a clear responsibility to clean this up and put in place the parties that are there, and they may be so kind as not to doubt this in such a dramatic way as the NHO has done today. If not, the doubt will be that this is actually also the Government's agenda, but that it wants the NHO to go ahead, and that in the Stortinget it will have to have backing from the Progress Party to get to grips with this on the first and best occasion. So here I must ask the Council of State to do more than tacitly accept that the freedom of expression goes beyond the agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1351	I have noticed with interest that in the debate, Councillor Solberg has said no to his own play on NRK radio the other day that the House Bank is now going to be the first home bank. If I understand correctly, there will hardly be any weakening of any of the existing measures and frameworks. But if the Council of State insists that the number of start-up loans is to be increased to the level proposed by the Labour Party Government, while the lending framework is set at NOK 2 billion lower, that means that about 1,500 fewer homes can be provided with mortgages next year. I have otherwise noticed Norman's emphasis on the will to outsource state activities. I'm glad. I hope the Council of State will also follow up the comment of the majority of the Committee, which assumes that the new government will follow up the work of the previous government to establish 30–50 new state jobs in Vardø. This is probably the municipality that is most affected by the conversion into a state enterprise. The representative Hoddevik raised the question of the border audit between Sande and Vanylven municipalities. The comment made here, for the Workers' Party's part, must not be understood so that the Workers' Party gives the Government a general agreement to what the Government may want, but if the Government believes it has new information that it will provide to the Storting for an assessment, we will of course consider the matter. But as I said, not a general agreement on our part. The Bondevik government has provided new estimates for unemployment next year. These estimates are based on analyses which have been made since the government presented its draft budget and which capture the increased uncertainty of the international economy. The government is now estimating an increase in unemployment next year, and it would be reinforced by the unemployment figures for November, which were presented on Monday, and the latest analyses that also came from elsewhere. The increase in unemployment last month is the largest in almost ten years, and it should bother us all. The Labour Party considers, for its part, that the Government is too passive when it now only increases the appropriations for unemployment benefits. We believe that the new information makes it necessary to strengthen labour market measures and has therefore proposed it. I assume, however, that the Government closely follows developments, and I am pleased that the Council of State underlined it. I assume that the government may come back to Stortinget with proposals for action. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party also believes that there is a need for a thorough review of the municipal economy – one thing is the pension costs, another thing is the deficits due to the activity in the hospital sector. Here I refer to the private proposal promoted by representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, and to the consideration of it in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1366	The right-wing municipal politician said in his speech today that no municipality gets a penny too much. I share his assessment. Then, in pure words, State Council Solberg says that it is municipalities that per person. the date is given in excess of the funds. I'm asking for a concreteization in relation to a picture of Kommune-Noreg, drawn by the Council of State, in which I don't recognize myself. So a few words about the housing sector. It is necessary to build a screened market with rentals and low-injection dwellings for those entering the housing market for the first time or who, for other reasons, have difficulty getting settled in the open market. The centre considers that the revenue from the document fee should be earmarked with a programme for the construction of non-profit rental dwellings, low-injection buildings and other subsidised housing under price regulation. It is also possible to provide young people under 30 years of age with exemptions from paying a document fee. In our alternative budget, we're going to make $150 million. for measures for the unemployed. It includes the most necessary interaction between the dwelling and the follow-up, e.g.: after-protection measures for drug addicts. We see the search light on the isolated situation, a group in which sometimes have much higher build-up costs per. person other than other households, while also coming out poorly in other areas. We want to have a case for the Storting with an assessment of housing policy measures. I'm asking the Council of State for its assessment in relation to that. So finally, this is about the House Bank. Of a total housing funding in Norway, the Husbanken confiscated between 13 and 14 p.m. That's what we're talking about. This is also the case – it is said in the House Bank – that there is a request for 39 p.m. more in loans this year than last year. That means that you can already be in a situation where you start drawing next year's loan frameworks. For us, it is important to stress that the House Bank participates in the fact that every year there are a large number of nocturnal dwellings on the market and are involved in some resource use. And the House Bank is a very important travel hub to drive towards cyclical policies and ensure that housing construction continues, even in times of decline. There is no doubt that housing in the districts can be more difficult to finance without the Husbank’s general housing loans. The house bank finances between 60 and 70 pst. of new buildings, e.g. in North Norway, against only 10 pst. in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1383	It goes towards the end of a longer debate. I just want to link some comments to some of what has been said in the debate today. First of all, I would like to take note of the comment made by the Labour Party when it relates to the adding practices in the oil sector – which we find very unfortunate – and which in the setting has been joined by the Centre Party and the SV, and actually – as I thought – also the Progress Party. Now the representative Sandberg has confirmed that the Progress Party is not on that note. I think it's a little sad that the Progress Party is involved in creating confusion by – I had almost said – going out and into a comment. In an earlier exchange of lines between myself and the representative Sandberg, I raised the question of the new measure within Aetat, which is to take care of the weakest of the weakest in the labour market. The representative Sandberg replied that it could be resolved by private brokerage companies. I must say that I am very surprised at that. Private intermediaries are initially going to do the shop of the work they are doing, and I actually don't think it's particularly interesting for private brokerage companies to convey work to the weakest of the weakest. There may be a heavy group to communicate, so I think it's a shame that the Progress Party, which is occupied by the weakest, after what they say, is not on the proposal of the Labour Party. I want to ask Councillor Solberg about the role of the House Bank. She has now clarified some aspects of this, but if the House Bank is to focus on initial start-ups, it is very important that the establishment loan scheme has a large framework. Now we've had a start-up loan for a few years, but what I'm experiencing is that some municipalities don't take up a start-up loan for further dissemination to the first-time start-ups. When about 100 municipalities do not actually take up the establishment loan and give it to their inhabitants, it is a problem that we have a system that does not cover the whole country in that area. I encourage the Council of State to give some signals about how she intends to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1394	Councillor Erna Solberg began his speech in the debate today by saying that she was so happy to have had an impact on the main features of the budget. One must well be from the Right to find joy in this budget. But what about the Christian People's Party and the enthusiasm for the budget? At least I can just talk for my own county, Hedmark, and there's not much sign of joy. There were many of us who had hoped that the government would increase the effort for further housing. I am glad that we have experienced that the Council of State has reversed something that seemed to be a reduction of the House Bank to a bank for the homeless and young people. The Labour Party has used the House Bank to create a social housing bank, which is why I am pleased that the Council of State has now moderated somewhat. But the framework is weakened, and it will actually mean, as it is now available, a reduction of 2,500 house-banked dwellings to next year – at least in relation to the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government. And so the applicants are in line. So a little bit about Aetat Business, the part that takes care of the weakest, and that has worked so well: why in the world should a remove something that works so well? It must be allowed to ask whether it is the principle that everything should be privatised, which is the basis, instead of helping and providing assistance to all the jobseekers who want to get into work and live on their own income. I'm glad the committee's in on 20 million. kr for installation of lifts in residential blocks. Hamar is a municipality of conduct in this context. Hamar Municipality has spent money in a fund that is used to install lifts in blocks, so that older people can live in their own block apartment even if they get a little bad on legs. In the end, I wanted to make the councillor Victor D. Norman a little visit since he was so reticent in terms of the AFP, contracted retirement. I hope that the Council of State, like me, wants to take advantage of the labour and the residual capacity of many.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1407	I take the floor to comment on Inger S. Enger’s contributions to resource-intensive users, because I have also seen a majority in the Committee propose that we introduce such a scheme from 1 January 2003. It is also in itself in line with what is not so strong, but is in the Sem-Declaration and from Stortinget's treatment before the summer. I agree that there is some experience showing us, so it is that putting in full on objective criteria is not going to work with the structure we have in Kommune-Norge, because then the burden on the individual municipality that gets one or two or maybe three cases of people who are either severely disabled because of car accidents or are born like this will be so great that it is difficult to get into an average and normal distribution. However, the ambition and wish that we would have this within 1 January 2003 is probably a little difficult to fulfill. First, we have to take money from the discretionary grants that are already distributed to the different states and municipalities of these groups, because it has to be part of and fund the state's share of it. In addition, we need to have an overview and make a system for that. That kind of takes time, and the ministry has been working for a while to follow up what was the majority decision, based on the voices of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left before the summer. But it will come in 2003, and there will be a description of this in the municipal bill. So to the homeless: I understand that SV wants more activity. We believe we are active in the process. We're working in relation to the municipalities, and we've done some extensions of the projects, which means we're going to be able to reach out. It has first priority within the arrangements we have. But if what SV really believes is that the state is going to go into and build these dwellings, that we are going to have a new state building company that is going into this construction process, we're actually disagreeing. We believe that it is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility, and see it within the structure they otherwise have in the first line service. Then I have to say that there is something difficult – more difficult than other things – and that is among other things. to understand the comment on the Åram circuit from the majority in the position, and what one wanted, and it was not easier after Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen's posts. This has actually been decided within the sphere of competence of the Council of State. The Labour Party's position last time the Stortinge dealt with the matter, two years ago, was just to point out that the then State Council of Enoxsen should have taken a decision without coming to the Stortinge with the matter. I'm going to go through the case, look at the new moments, and take the matter up in the government to see if we want to change it. But I may not feel that I have received guidance on what you really mean, and it gets even a little less after what the Workers' Party spokesman said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1420	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1424	First to homelessness: yes, SV means we have to do more because people are actually homeless. If then it's more important for the Government to have a structure where the municipalities do and the state does, we're actually fundamentally in disagreement. People don't have anywhere to live. We have to do something, we can't sit and look at it, and push that responsibility between us year after year. Then I register that the SV and the Center Party are the only parties that agree with Councilman Norman that there is a need to go through Aetat, Social Security and Social Security Office. He'll get our whole-hearted support for it, because the taskbar must be accessible to those who need it the most. That's a significant point. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party is not involved in this; I know that they are in the Social Committee – so here it cracks in every direction. It's a theme for SV is busy, and we haven't received any special support for it now. In fact, there is a need for a comprehensive law against discrimination against people with disabilities in this country. Labour market conditions indicate this. Does the Government support this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1433	The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, does not seem to settle down in the case of a couple of points where the Progress Party does not agree with the Workers' Party. With regard to the comments on page 71 of the statement, it is important to note that despite the emergency situation, this is important for the Workers' Party. The Progress Party has no intention that the Storting should intervene more fully in the right of individual employers to make their employees’ contributions. This must be done between employers and workers locally — as strongly as possible. In the case of Aetat, I would like to ask the representative Upbeøen Hansen to look at our comments. There we say that Aetat in our eyes is going to be a body that is actually going to take the task of helping those who have problems in the labour market, and not being a business that spends resources on healthy, up-and-coming people. So we also say that Aetat is in some way not being prevented from participating in the same line with the interests that are now coming on the road to engage in that kind of work. And then there's a lot of talk about the House Bank. The aim of the Progress Party is to bring down the House Bank. We see that it is much more important to get to a system where interest rates generally go down for everyone in this country. Obviously, it's nice what's being said here from the Center Party, that there are so many people who need mortgage loans, and many who are in line to get them. Yes, of course it is! And of course, if you give away a loan, you're going to get even more in line. I would like to refer to an example that lies below Norman's territory: housing loans for government employees. Obviously, the more attractive we make it for government employees to get mortgage loans, the longer the queue becomes. It also shows the expenditure in this area. If more and more people see that there are opportunities to get cheap loans when they're employed in the state, of course, more and more want to do so. That's a logical result. Finally, I only have a few comments on this with business out in the districts through the municipalities. Yes, we have got an overview – at least we have got it in the Nord-Trøndelag – that shows what these food funds have done. There are built slabs, there are built parks, and there are purchased milk quotas. I think we'll get a better look if we do this through tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1446	Just three brief comments. Firstly, as far as the representative of the Fallet commented on this with the Aetat Company, I would like to recall that it has been adopted on a proposal from the previous government. There's nothing we're suggesting. Regarding Schjøtt-Pedersen's questions about jobs in Vardø, I can confirm that the current government intends to follow up the commitment given by the previous government. We believe it is important that the State assumes responsibility for the existence of a good job offer in Vardø, and we go through different types of state-owned activities that can be suitable for fulfilling that obligation. The third and last thing I want to comment on is the question from the representative, Mr. Enger. I think the question of the costs of particularly resource-intensive users, who can hit small municipalities very hard, is a very good example of the need to get the principle that money should follow users, in many contexts of the public sector. Those of us who believe in this as a general principle, I think we should notice that it works especially well in relation to particularly disadvantaged individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1457	The representative of the Fall thought it was only the Right who could express joy over the budget, and not the Christian People's Party. I can at least express sober optimism. I have pointed out in my article the important regional policy instrument SIVA. I have pointed to the threshold effects, which are to be reduced. I did not mention the church sector and the fact that their economy was to be taken up annually. The work environment survey has been highlighted. I did not pick up Norway's Fire School and the increased appropriations there, nor Norsk Brannvern Association. I wasn't in that we have an almost collective committee in terms of policy in relation to minorities. I've pointed out the municipalities that have growth problems, and we want to do something about it. I have pointed out the scope of the instrument and the need for changes there. I picked up the resource-intensive users and the North Norway grant. Others have addressed the agricultural offices and the need to look at them. I didn't mention the 20 million. SEK to the fourteen municipalities, rather the 20 million. kr for the water project. I also did not mention that the committee has said that church asylum for young children is not good, and that we want to do something about it. I did not mention that the housing support in our arrangement is going to cover increased costs of light and heat, and that we have increased the subsidy there. I have not mentioned what we have said about ‘clean development’. I was in the ASVO and could have said a lot more about it. I pointed out that there was broad agreement on common policies and on the Lulesamian Centre. The representative Karin Andersen does not seem to have come to realize that we have said positive things about the coordination of employment offices, social security offices and social services. Well, a Christian People's Party politician is pleased to note that there is broad consensus in a number of fields within the remit of the Municipal Committee. I have that joy, and I hope many more will have with me. Because if we can't allow each other to say that we also agree on some things, yes, then I think we just agree to increase the political bias. There's a lot of joy in the position the Municipal Committee has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1466	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1469	It was State Councillor Solberg who asked for guidance on the Committee's comment on the Åram Kreis. Let me then clarify the following: The working party has not asked to get the matter to Stortinget. I don't think that the committee is asking for it either. If the Government stands by the current decision, the Workers' Party has no comments on it. If the government wants to come to Stortinget with new assessments, we will of course consider the question then. Then we will also take a stand after seeing the government's possible new assessments. But let me make it clear: the Labour Party has not asked to get the case to Stortinget, nor do I perceive that the committee as such has asked for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1474	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1477	Today, when it comes to the end of the old age plan, our attention-seeker has been lost. There has to be consistency between what the Biggest says and what the Biggest does, in this area as well. Proposal No. 22 set the search light just on it. The proposal provides a signal to those of the municipalities who have spent years working out plans for their elderly effort. They have sought advice from the county council, the county board and the House Bank. They've made agreements, and they're proud of Stortinget. For some, it means obvious great uncertainty and increased costs. The Progress Party today has already given its support to this proposal. I also ask every other party to evaluate it. This means that it is safe and secure for those municipalities that are finally allowed to participate in the elderly initiative, which others have been able to participate in before, and that means a matter of a more thorough assessment of the rest of the applications for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1482	I was going to say three things in three minutes. One thing was about things I was also satisfied with in relation to the settings we've made. Under the motto ‘There’s at least something good coming from Bergen’, we have joined the committee on the Bergens model, which is a way to solve problems in the housing market. It implies that the municipality makes with plots and applications for home banking funds, that the House Bank makes with loans and grants, and that the housing law builds and operates this. There's something we've brought with us from Bergen. There are a lot of right-hand-driven municipalities around that think that there should not be more social rental homes built, as we could imagine, but then this is a kind of good compromise between right-wing forces and left-wing forces. The second thing I should say was related to one of the things that have not been mentioned here, but in which it is implemented, namely the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate covers, inter alia: breach of the Working Environment Act. I record that the self-appointed law and order party, the Progress Party, think this is an area that should be cut by 30 million. kr per. They've had an impact for a cut of five million. kr in negotiations with the Right. I hope that the Right will return this money as soon as they can. I would like to point out the breaches of the Working Environment Act, especially in the hotel and restaurant industries, where I myself work alongside Sitting on the Stortinget. You can read about the patio “Mono”, where I work, in the newspaper tomorrow. In the field of nightlife, there is a close link between the violation of labour law and overtime regulations, the exploitation of workers, the smuggling of raw materials, accounting fraud, money laundering and organised crime. These things are related, and then there is a kind of extra evil when it is now implemented in the Labour Inspectorate. And then I'd like to say one thing to the state councillor "Wolve" Victor D. Norman compared to saying that he sees this with a-efficiency being hopped up. The question is, how can employees rely on a government that one day has open arms and a wide smile and say that there should be a plan for the reorganisation and here we should listen to workers, when one in the next moment – overnight – sees an a-efficiency improvement. Is it strange that you get a little skeptical about what thoughts are behind this? I kind of have some kind of faith in the way these things are done, but what's now happening overnight, I think more of what happened in England under Thatcher two decades ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1491	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1499	Then we are ready to vote on the matters 1-3. The voting can be relatively long and tight in some places, so we'll try to take this together as much as we can. The President also recalls previous requests for representatives to find their seats as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1510	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It is under Framework Area 7: proposal No 1, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Under the framework-independent proposals:proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-8, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 9-14, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure 15 and 16, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 17-22, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1537	President! I ask for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1544	Mr Hogsnes has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1547	Earlier in the debate, several sympathies were expressed by the undersigned for the proposal presented as proposal No. 9, promoted by the Advance Party. On behalf of the government parties I warn with this that we will not vote in favour of the proposal. We point out that the Government is working on a fast-working sample to deal with possible systems of equal opportunities for self-employment and the purchase of services, which could work better than the VAT compensation scheme. As you know, there's a little bit of a heavy system, and it means a lot of delay. On that basis, the parties to the Government will vote against proposal No. 9, and we recommend the Progress Party to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1554	The President reminds us that the time for debate is over. The main objective of the explanation of vote shall be to explain how the various parties should vote – there is no debate on the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1557	President! I ask for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1564	Mr Sandberg has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1567	I'll follow up on the request and I'll be brief. The Progress Party wants to vote against V under the Act of Commitment; this has no influence on the framework, as it is not an estimate. We are also asking to vote against III under framework-independent proposals. With regard to the call from the Right, I would say that after a long time of thinking and a strong assessment, we accept that both proposal No. 9 and proposal No. 14 to be sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1578	The President perceives that V is part of the framework, and sees that a difficult vote can take over V from the voting to be taken throughout the framework. As far as III is concerned, there is a framework independent decision, and voting will of course be put up in such a way that there is an opportunity for the Progress Party to mark its vote on that point. Carl I. Hagen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1585	I'm having a little trouble understanding the president. What has been determined by a coercive vote during the financial debate is the sum of appropriations on the expenditure side and on the income side, and of course the possible Roman numerals which, if adopted or not adopted, would have an impact on the figures included in this adopted framework. V, as Per Sandberg mentioned here, has no impact on what is to be allocated by money, and thus has no direct impact on the framework budget, which all committees are obliged to hold. So it is an authority to go beyond the appropriations that have been allocated, and is thus a matter of framework independence. So we want to maintain that we want to vote against that Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1592	I share the President's assessment of the voting arrangement. V is worded ‘even if it leads to a higher level of appropriation under the heading. 520’ This implies that the issue of batches has an economic impact and is therefore part of the framework decision. I therefore fully agree with the President's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1598	I urge the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to vote for the proposal No. 1 and 2, where we are co-sponsors. Furthermore, I urge them to vote in favour of the vote and for I and II, but against III.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1605	Carl i. Hagen – is that still a explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1608	Partly. It is only to clarify that the President intends to comply with the Rules of Procedure. V is not as Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen says; it is an authority to exceed a grant. The allocation has been cut. 520, and we must have the full opportunity to vote against an authorization to exceed a grant. It is also not an estimate, although the majority sometimes behave as if this area were an estimate. So it's not – it's not that key. And in accordance with the rules of procedure, customs and practices, we shall then have the opportunity to vote against what we oppose. And we're against V, which has no consequence on the allocation under the hood. 520. It is an agreement to spend more money than the allocation. We do not agree with that, and we want to be allowed to vote against it in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the long-term practice of this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1613	For its part, the President must state that the Committee has described this as a framework-dependent proposal. However, the President is inclined to agree with Mr Hagen's suggestion that this does not affect the framework as such. And to quote the suggestion, which is referenced on page 91: ‘The financial envelope agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Administration in 2002 may give up interest-free and deductible loans granted to labour market measures for persons with disabilities where this is considered necessary to ensure the continued operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1619	President! The President referred to VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1626	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Nevertheless, the President must say that this necessarily does not have to be of any importance to the framework, at least not to the expenditure framework, but it may have a bearing on the disposal of this money. However, I understand that this is a fundamental question for the Progress Party. I don't think that's going to matter to the outcome. The President is therefore prepared to organise the vote so that the Advance Party is given the opportunity to vote against. In addition, the president would say that with regard to the settings, the committees should be concerned with resolving such issues within the committee, so that we do not get into such a situation as this in Stortinget. Karin Andersen – is that an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1637	It's to this point. I agree that this should be clarified in advance. I think I disagree with the President's view here. It is clear that an exceedance on these points is not going to affect exactly the framework we are adopting today, but it is a necessary authority for the Government to be able to handle its responsibilities. However, SV supports this point so that the Government does not have to be concerned that this is not adopted. And I guess that's the way the order is restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1646	It was nice to see that finally Karin Andersen shared the president's vision – it's probably all right. The regulatory time is running out of time, but I think we're going to do the trick of continuing until we're done with the voting. First, we have to vote on framework-independent proposals. But first the president will tell you that on page 91 it says "B. Framework-dependent decisions’. The President assumes that it should read "B." Framework independent decisions’. Then it will be easier to organise the vote. It is first voted on framework-independent proposals. The President shall vote on proposals 17, 18, 20 and 21, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size request of the Government of the Municipal Proposition for 2003 shows the redistribution between municipalities that have occurred as a result of changes in the income system from 1997 to the agreed budget for 2002.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for the creation of the financial imbalances in the local government sector.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget a proposal that the revenue from the document fee be earmarked as a programme for the construction of non-profit rentals, low-intensity buildings and other subsidised dwellings subject to price regulation.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case for its individual life situation. Saka should include: held an assessment of specific housing policy measures and an assessment of how public charges can be structured according to a system that prevents undesirable economic differences.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1687	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Nineteen, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to keep the agricultural office back-to-back allocation key used today.’ The Socialist Left has announced that it will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1704	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 22, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the South to ensure that all municipalities that have applied for assistance to care establishments/sickness centres by the deadline of 1 October 2001 following plans drawn up in consultation with the House Bank and county councils shall be assured’.» The Progress Party has expressed its wish to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1723	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Municipal Proposition for 2003 to explain the effects of the change in the tax rate on district policy and to assume that the tax rate in 2003 is escalated to 47 pst.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government of the Municipal Proposition for 2003 to propose the introduction of a state top funding for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services where all expenditure exceeds SEK 600 000 per year. user is covered by the State.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1745	Proposals Nos. 9 and 14 of the Progress Party have been converted into proposals for transmission. They are thus given the introduction ‘It is recommended to the Government’. Proposal No. 9 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals to make the VAT compensation scheme to municipalities and counties in general.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds in modified form:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1792	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the testing of freer local taxpayers, so that municipalities can increase taxation for periods in order to implement important policy priorities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Until the revision of the Foreign Law has been completed, the Stortinget Government asks the Government to suspend the posting of women who claim to have been subjected to gender-based persecution or have received expulsion decisions based on the provisions on the residence permit for women after a break in life’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an annual overview of the geographical breakdown of government investment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a state housing investment and land company with the aim of establishing social rental housing in cooperation with municipalities, housing construction teams or other non-profit-making measures/foundations.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take immediate measures for the homeless.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1829	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the following principle: Single minor asylum seekers shall be responsible for the protection of children and shall have an equal offer with Norwegian children under the care of child protection.Receipts for unaccompanied minor asylum seekers shall be given the status of child protection institutions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1846	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government not to initiate a new lease-out measure under the auspices of Aetat.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1861	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the Revised National Budget 2002 is asked to make a proposal for a fair settlement to counties with future documented loss of income. Special attention is required on the situation in Eastfold and North Trøndelag. The scheme must take account of the fact that Stortinget increased the discretionary framework of the county municipalities by 200 million. 2002 kroner in relation to proposals in the municipal bill.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e1876	A vote shall now be taken on the proposal for a decision in Framework Area 6, Roman numeral I and its related chapters and records and Roman numerals II up to and including Roman numeral VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4004	Here, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against, but the President is a little uncertain whether the Socialist Left Party said they should support this. Is it only Roman number V?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4007	Yes, this was the case with the one Roman Numeral Decision we have with the Central Party and the Labour Party, and we are voting against the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4012	The Labour Party has notified us that we are voting against the disposal of the framework, and with it it also follows that we are voting against the framework-dependent proposals. If the President defines Roman Num V as a framework-independent proposal, I would advise the Workers' Party to vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4017	Then we first take up to voting the Roman numerals referred to under frame area 6, Roman numerals I and the corresponding chapters and records and Roman numerals II even Roman numerals VIII, except for Roman numerals V, and then we vote over Roman numerals V.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4037	The proposal for a framework-independent decision is then put to the vote. The President makes note of the typographical error in the title, that it should state B. Framework-independent decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4053	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will now support this subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4071	As far as I understand from previous votes, this should be a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4090	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the position, and as far as I understood Anita Apelthun Säle, she announced on behalf of the government parties that they would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4301	In this area there is a proposal from the Socialist Left. That is proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox All the other parts are behind the setting. It should therefore be possible for us to vote alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjective:CronesCronesExpenditure2540Aids under unemployment for fishermen and fishermen70Aids, estimate appropriations40 800 0002541Day money70Day money, estimate appropriations6 511000 0002542State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2542)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06.ana.ud1539e4989	Then we finished voting in case No. One, two, three.
