ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e89	The idea behind the national transport plan is excellent: to find good links and links between the various modes of transport by sea, land and air. Has the government succeeded in this? In my opinion, only partially. The main bias is linked to the strong concentration of heavy, cost-intensive measures in key areas, while District Norway has become the backbone of investment and upgrading measures. The Christian People's Party, through a shifting majority, has provided to correct some of this bias. A significant part of the extra funds for the road sector is just going to the districts, and that is good. The distribution of resources by country to other national roads is not a good idea to be wise. What is the criterion for the allocation of funds here? There seems to be a disturbing trend that previous distributions also form patterns for their priorities between the counties. Then the bias gradually becomes eye-catching. The county rapporteurs from Rogaland to More and Romesdal took a commendable initiative to coordinate the priorities for the development of transport in the West. Through the so-called Western package, they made the inconsistency between the population, value creation and self-employment through tolling schemes on the one hand, and the state's contribution through state-allocated funds on the other. I am pleased that some important measures have been taken. The E39 Coastal Route is perhaps the most important ‘bloodstream’ for transportation, housing and value creation in the West. Finally, it will link industrial activities and population centres along the coast, which will lead to a more rational and environmentally friendly transport pattern in relation to the unfortunate eastward drainage of traffic that we have today. When the Triangle Connection opens completely in April, an important piece is put in place. In this plan, the Christian People's Party has actively contributed to the disappearance of another bottleneck, the route over Kvinesheia, when OPS project No. 3 is going to be realized. The Christian People's Party has deliberately committed itself to prioritizing collective offerings, not only in the cities, but also in the districts. The railway effort is important in this context. The track has become an unconditional success. The problem is that the capacity of the grid has become too small. A basic prerequisite for success in public transport is satisfactory frequency, acceptable price, good regularity and comfort. The railway doesn't meet all these conditions today. But when the double track between Stavanger and Sandnes is now being built, there is room for further improvement of the results on this path. Like the Minister for Transport, I am very pleased that the proposal on the T link linking the largest municipality in North Rogaland to Karmøy directly to the Coastal Route has received broad and positive support from the Committee on Transport. In any case, a new link had to be established between the peoples of the Karmøy-Haugesund area because the capacity of the Karmsund bridge has been decommissioned several times a day. That a strengthening of the link over Karmsundet can be combined with a connection to the E39 makes sense, and it triggers new opportunities for economic development. For North Rogaland and Sunnhordland, E134 is the main nerve in the relationship east-west. The extension along Åkrafjorden is now completed. The curved, steeped line in the Rollestadjuvet will be the next task, and I am glad that this has been prioritised within the first part of the transport planning period. At the same time, E134 is given national transport corridor status. Such status corresponds to the importance of this road in the relationship between east and west. The national transport plan emphasises the importance of good links between the different modes of transport. At the western end of this national transport corridor there is a port, Karmsund port. It has a significant size with participation from most municipalities in the region, also across the county border. Karmsund port is the second largest in the case of parcels. The only logical thing about the national transport corridor E134 is therefore to give the port status as a national port of transport in line with what is proposed for Ålesund. I therefore hope for such a result in the vote. Furthermore, it must be stressed that the follow-up to the annual budgets is equally important. One is to have bold plans, something else is to implement them. We must, of course, have the necessary reservations in relation to the current economic situation, but the aim must be to achieve the greatest possible consistency between the plans and the specific decisions when transport budgets are knocked through.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e110	Today, when we debate the National Transport Plan, as the Workers' Party, I will devote most of my contribution to this. The framework in the 2002-2011 plan was an annual increase of 51 million. kr. After the Workers' Party in the Committee proposed to add to the framework, the Coastal Agency will receive $20 million new dollars. So there's a total use of government funds in the planning period of $5,560 million. kr plus user funding. The representative Bastisen stated in his post that there was almost no wagering on ports, fairways and safety at sea. Therefore, I must be allowed to inform both the representative of Bastisen and others who have not received it: what is now in the area of coastal management during the planning period is as much as what has been used from port development started in the early 1900s and until today. This means that the security and emergence along the Norwegian coast will be given a formidable boost from this year’s framework. I would also like to remind you that in this year's budget, the planning frame for this four-year period has been completed. But there is no need for solutions to be found. We've all got some sticks in the groundings, bad markings and missing maintenance, and in the wake of the ticking environmental bombs. That is why more grips need to be made. It is clear that several sectors should be seen together. I will come back to this in the context of another debate – on the reorganization of the Coastal Agency – at a later stage. In the national transport plan, the Committee has joined the Workers' Party in its comments on electronic maps. The mapping is partly antiquarian and deficient both at land and at sea. With several committees like this, now thinking in new and untraditional paths and adding crowns in a common pot, we will have electronic maps for the whole country for all purposes by 2006. And in the transport plan, one should think of whole-life solutions. For the transport sector only, this could result in an efficiency gain of nearly DKK 1 billion. Proximity, security and the environment are overarching the objective of this plan. To achieve this is not insurmountable. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment for the Cartwork. But there is also work in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Fisheries on the division of responsibilities of maritime transport. And can a little in the long term get the 'lending' defense of its fixed radar stations in order to be able to correct the course in peacetime, security would be increasing monthly. One would then be spared from many shipguards and environmental targets, such as oil pollution, for example. The Norwegian Veritas has given us information that better maps and satellite surveillance with GPS, which we use already today, would reduce the accidents at sea by about 40 pst. Here, the potential savings for many, both in time and in costs, are more ‘comprehensive’ for those engaged in the transport of sick cars, and not least for the long-distance transport industries, far beyond what the Ministry of Finance is dreaming to provide. The Right Party and the Progress Party have a joint comment on the unloading fee and the development of costs there. One should therefore bear in mind that this is partly user-financed. The size has determined that it should be 30 pst. When the effort to make the necessary investments is increased, this will also lead to an increase in user payments, otherwise the percentage must be reduced. It hasn't happened so far. Nevertheless, I find reason to note that it is an improvement potential. Pilot stations, unloading stations, use of traffic centres - all will be considered in the context of the evaluation of the unloading message. The same applies to the future location of a central unloading station. The working party is more than willing to look at this, but we'd like to follow the formal right path. The government has signaled that such work is ongoing. The same applies to the location of several national ports. We in the Labour Party believe that that time is not now, when we wait for revision of port and lake laws. It's where it belongs, and not – as some parties are now signaling at the beginning – in an election fight. What good follows with such a status so far? None. In the further work on the transport plan, we need better leadership to make maritime and rural solutions even better. Only then will it be possible to be a national port – instead of just getting a picture. In the case of regional ports, the county is responsible for these, with the approval of the Ministry of Fisheries. It is important that these too be rolled, as in the road sector, and that a consideration be given to landing sites for fish, which are to bet and our livelihood in the future. This is the day to send greetings home. Then it is very important to signal to Stortinget that 100 million. kr for the design of the Ringerix track is the biggest thing for me. Although there is a little time ahead, there is a risk that the decision to collapse from 1992 will be brought to a new Grobot. The Bergensbanen was built early in the 1900s and had the nicest cost of a whole national budget. Now, the sewing process is that it costs too much to make these improvements and the likes so that people can handle themselves. Now we're talking about less than 1 pst. of the same budget. Only the pressure in Akershus, such as the metropolitan area of Oslo, should ensure that there is political will for this socially useful action. Ring Kingdoms as a municipality face major challenges in the loss of all defence jobs. It was supposed to be other places in Norway, then it probably had 'packages'. Here it might be thought untraditional: money from several departments into the same pot. But that the railway between Asker and Skøyen is also an important piece that needs to be put in place before a very different railway development. The Hallingdal region of travel, the largest in the country, will also benefit from this as well, which together with the Slengetoga will provide a reduced travel time of one and a half hours. Once the journey time from Gardermoen has given a disfavor in relation to the competing market, it is necessary to introduce some measures. I haven't mentioned the environmental benefit. The drama package and a faster completion of it than originally planned are well received. The city has, over the years, been a site, and so it will be for eight more years. But one gets to lubricate with patience and think of the old saying that one never waits for nothing if one waits for something good. Already today, traffic is high on a very accident-prone road between Sandvika and Hønefoss. The Steinsfjords are a different project. With the increased frames of the Tribal Road Budget, there must be a solution during the first part of the planning period. It is a ticking environmental bomb – with old traffic sins as a cause. Stepwise parcel corrections on the E16 between Sandvika and Solli Height in Hole Municipality are included in the plan. Here, there are parallels to both Rv 23 and Rv 319. The main challenges are the soft road users and the large daily traffic figures. It has attached great expectations to this transport plan. We've listened to a lot, we've traveled a lot, and we've asked even more. The response document given by the municipality is for voting in the hall today. We who have had this plan of treatment know that communication is important to people everywhere in our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e146	When the Storting in 1894, after eight days of debate, decided to build a railway across the high mountain between Voss and Hönefoss, it marked the start of a project that King Haakon later characterised as our generation's great work. The construction of Bergensbanen is probably the largest transport project in Norway throughout all time. It cost as much as a full national budget and was implemented at a time when Norway was among the poorest countries in Europe. The land was to be built. Without comparison, today's debate on transport is also special. Never before has the transport sector in Norway been brought together in one document. The challenges of transport policy have gradually become complex, and the Workers' Party is therefore building its transport policy on four main elements: accessibility, environment, district and security. A common keyword for this is public transport. It improves the availability, it provides a cleaner environment, it plays a district policy role, and it is a very safe form of transport. For districts, the challenge of public transport is to have a comprehensive transport offer between different modes of transport. This transport is often carried out over long distances, with a moderate frequency. In some parts of the country, collective provision is now at a minimum level, and there is no room for further reductions in collective funds, which, in turn, provide a generally lower level of transport provision in the districts. In our densely populated areas, public transport plays an important role in limiting car use. The strong underlying traffic growth we have seen for a number of years will only continue, and it is imperative that public transport takes a greater part of this growth. The Labour Party is therefore focusing on public transport in our largest cities. So in the current year’s budget, there were 65 additional million for collective actions in Oslo, Akershus, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. In the context of the national transport plan, a majority of the Committee also requests the Ministry to explain, in relation to the 2002 budgetary procedure, how the share of public transport in total transport can be increased. The work of making public transport a preferred mode of travel in major cities must therefore continue, as the Government proposes. Many suggest that we will gradually have an ever-improved collective offer in our metropolitan areas, but this effort must take place within a realistic economic framework. Loose promises and imaginative numerical magic will only harm public transport. Improvements are to be made step by step and systematically, promises are to be made, and travellers should note that there is actually a positive development of collective provision in Norway – I had almost said – from day to day. In this context, we can point to the Bergen programme. The mountain traffic challenges are special. New capacity on the road network in combination with the construction of a rail transport option will meet these challenges in a good way. It is urgent for Bergen, and it is therefore very gratifying that an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, suggests that toll collection for the Bergen programme can start on 1 January 2002. In the case of major rural road projects, I am also very pleased that a majority ask the Ministry to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a transitional arrangement to ensure that the few remaining county road projects in Norway can be realised as rural road projects during the planning period. In this context, the Jondal tunnel in Hordaland can be mentioned. The project is top priority in the county and will be a road-release project that will dramatically shorten the travel distances on the Folgefonn peninsula, while providing new municipal boundaries. Furthermore, I would like to mention the Collegiate Link in the Women's Heath. The project is not mentioned in the national transport plan, but has a high priority locally and regionally. The local authorities of the Member States are committed to making an exceptional contribution to the financing of the project. In 2009, Bergensbanen will be able to celebrate its 100th anniversary. The working party suggests that one at this time can start up the design of what will form the abbreviation of the Bergensbanen, the Ringeriksbanen. This will be a fine marking of the anniversary of a railway that was the result of a courageous policy of foresighted people – a courage and foresight we must try to bear with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e165	In the Prime Minister's political statement to the Stortinget on Tuesday evening, the Prime Minister spent a lot of time telling about the animals in the Hackground Forest. It's been a few years since I read about the animals in the Hackground Forest, but after what I can remember, it wasn't much about transportation in Thorbjørn Egner's stories. It was not in the Prime Minister's statement either, unfortunately – i.e. a little traffic was, because the Prime Minister said, among other things.«The Right Party and the Advance Party say they want more to go to school, more to research, more to defense, and more to roads». It is quite right that we want much more money to be spent on roads, but neither the Prime Minister nor the Labour Party will be involved. It's very disappointing. It is often pointed out from this pulpit and from other speakers how important it is to focus on nutrient development in the districts, fish farming and other marine nutrition. The breeding industry has been designated as the industry to take over once the oil and gas adventure ends. In this context, it is necessary to facilitate the development of the road network in such a way that fish can be transported quickly to the European market. Let me just take one example, from Troms, since I come from there, more specifically Senja: there are fish produced for about $1 billion a year. The problem for businesses is to get the fish out quickly and regularly to customers around the country and in Europe. Very often, the transport of fish has to be delayed due to race, floods or closed roads. In addition, the road standard is so poor that normal combinations of vehicles cannot be used; smaller vehicles have to be used due to narrow and steep roads. In a meeting with the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism with these companies this winter, we were informed that it would cost the same amount of money to transport the fish the 5-6 miles from the fish farm on the Senja to the Finns for transhipment, which it would cost to transport the fish the 160 miles from Finnsnes to Oslo. It clearly tells how important it is to facilitate the conditions to take care of the value creation that takes place in the districts. We in the Progress Party take seriously the needs of the municipality, the population, the rural community and the business community at Senja. That is why we have proposed that work on the internal road in Berge municipality should start in 2002. It is equally important that as soon as the work on the internal road in Berg is completed, the work on the internal road in Torsken can begin, and that these two projects are seen in the context. It is with great disappointment that I record that it is only the Progress Party that wants to prioritize the internal road on Senja. Why the other parties are not in favour of this socially useful project, is a mystery to me. We in the Progress Party want to allocate €8.38 mil-litres more to the states than to what the Government is in favour of in its proposal for the 2002-2011 planning period. We want to allocate these funds to the counties, so that important projects can be carried out, to the best of the counties. We also want to reduce the use of the extra tax that tolls actually are. We find it unreasonable that the drivers have to pay tolls in addition to already record taxes on car purchases and the use of a car. Our proposal reduces toll collection by a total of DKK 2.15 billion. We want to bet on racial protection of racial road sections. We don't want to experience more events like the tragic racial accident in Lyngen a year ago. This accident and past accidents show the need to put proper emphasis on racial protection, so that tragedies can be avoided. We're going to spend $1 billion for this purpose. Finally, I will be allowed to express my disappointment at the other parties here in the house, which are not involved in a completely necessary commitment to transportation measures to ensure business, population and settlement throughout the country. Several of the measures now being rejected by the other parties would undoubtedly have strengthened businesses and communities in several places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e186	Maritime transport is a fundamental prerequisite for further industrial development in our coastal areas. In my opinion, close history shows that large parts of the growth in business are coming on the coast. Let me remind you that we have developed our modern farming industry in just 30 years. The transport of salmon has increased from 0 to 440000 tonnes during this period. At the same time, we know that new species are in an emerging commercialisation phase, where new products and new volumes of transport are to be produced. If we're going to export seafood for a value of 200 to 300 billion dollars in 20 to 30 years, we have to act now to ensure that this is at all possible to transport quickly, efficiently and quality. For a coastal nation, one would believe that the choice of maritime transport was of course the closest. In addition, when we know that traffic on the roads in Europe is getting closer and closer, the natural choice would be to cross all the queues and use maritime transport as far as possible. However, when many choose the truck, this is due to the fact that this mode of transport has advantages for which business is willing to pay. Time is a critical factor here. But it is certainly also due to the fact that we have not been sufficiently able to link maritime and land transport in a good enough way. Therefore, the Government will facilitate the transfer of more of today’s road transport to rail and sea transport. The future maritime transport infrastructure shall ensure safe seafaring, ensure accessibility and facilitate conditions for reducing business transport costs. This requires good navigation aids, good observation and fairway improvement. Increased efforts are needed in this area, both for traditional ship traffic and for high-speed craft. Ports must be effective hubs of the maritime transport network between land and sea transport. This requires good access conditions, good connection of the land host and, in particular, suitable areas to the port itself. There is a clear need for a better legal framework for the management and organisation of ports. Today’s Port and Water Laws do not respond to the challenges facing ports in developing them into efficient logistics centres for business. I have therefore set up a sample to assess a new legislative regulation in the port and sea areas during the year. In this context, we will also consider, for example, whether. Ålesund should also become a national port. Cooperation across municipal borders should also be developed in relation to port operations themselves. Through inter-municipal port cooperation, new opportunities are opened up to see the overall port resources in a larger geographical area in the context. This also provides opportunities for urban development on areas no longer suitable for port operation. The Ministry of Fisheries supports such initiatives. In addition, the Ministry of Fisheries has launched a work specifically involving the national ports, their owners and county municipalities in a dialogue on the basis of a robust port structure. This work could form the basis for which criteria, and therefore also requirements, to be imposed on the ports forming part of the overall port structure, in particular the national ports. Today's classification cannot be static and a classification system must capture changes of significance for ports and maritime transport, such as changes in freight flows, changes in industrial structure and changes in supply and demand for transport. Coastal safety and preparedness have received particular attention as a result of the accidents in recent months. But Russian plans on oil transport and shipments of nuclear waste also make the government take this issue very seriously. There is close cooperation between the departments concerned, and we will take a number of measures to improve safety and preparedness. This will include preventive measures such as improved surveillance and alerting, recognition of internal navigation routes, required navigational managers, improved navigational charts and the assessment of the extension of territorial waters. I would particularly like to stress the need for better and digital charts. New navigation systems provide exciting opportunities to improve the safety of maritime transport because they are so accurate. But they reveal at the same time that the charts are too bad. When one knows exactly where one is, and sees with the naked eye that hollows and blades are drawn incorrectly on the map, then one can see that the possibilities of allowing the automatic take over part of the responsibility for safe sails cannot be done. Safe and well-functioning transport systems – with good performance at all stages – are a prerequisite for developing robust regions. In the National Transport Plan, the Government has presented a comprehensive transport policy that provides the basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e217	The Minister of Fisheries has a high profile of maritime transport, which is right and proper, but in the Christian People's Party we note that maritime transport has received a voteable treatment in national transport plans despite the fact that everyone agrees that fishing and farming have a high growth potential and that there is a desire to get more goods across from road to sea. We have a long coastline, which is excellent for transport, but the ports as a hub in the various transport corridors have received far too little attention in our opinion. The Minister of Fisheries has said here that he is concerned about this, and I would like to ask what he might do to get on the road more strongly with the next regulation. Furthermore, there is a great need for public funds to upgrade a number of fishing ports. In the Christian People's Party, we are committed to producing a list of priorities for those fishing ports that have a high development potential and need upgrading. Today, there are differences of opinion as to whether priority should be given to the counties or whether there are state priorities in this area. Will the Minister for Fisheries take the initiative to clean this up, so that the bingo principle that exists to some extent today can be abandoned? Finally, the question of criteria for the designation of regional, national ports. Proposals are already in place for two new national ports, while asking for criteria for classification. In response to the Committee, the Ministry states that they will consider the criteria for the revision of the Port and Water Law, which the Ministry has started up, as confirmed by the Minister in his statement. But what makes us a little skeptical is the question of how long it will take in that case before such a proposal will lie on the table with us, based on the experience we have done with how long it has taken to get this process going. And wouldn't it have been easier and quicker to treat this as a matter of your own?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e228	I cannot share the opinion of the representative of Sahl that maritime transport has received a voter treatment. Lake, highway No. 1, is special, for example. it is special because there are no same requirements for civil engineering in order to make navigational guides and ports function as for land-based installations. I think we have well explained the possibilities for this transport and the measures that can be taken to make it a preferred mode of transport. It is clear that we need to intensify the work on marking the ship's ship's trail, we need to make it safer to travel by speedboats, and we need to make the connection between port and other communications as good as possible. Then, like the representative Sahl, I have registered that there is a significant need for upgrading fishing ports. We take this continuously, insofar as the financial framework and the construction capacity are present to do so. In another case, which we are going to deal with later, concerning the reorganisation of the Coastal Plant, we are also taking action to improve the production of port services, development services, by separating that activity as a separate activity. With regard to the priorities of the counties, it is also clear in the transport plan that these priorities will continue to be implemented by the counties and that they will be given high weight. It shall not be what Sahl calls a ‘bingo principle’ that shall underpin this. At the same time, however, we note that there are changes to the priorities that have been made, and it is not as easy to deal with on a planned basis. With regard to the national ports, I would like to refer to what has been said earlier about this sample. It will deliver its position by 1 November, and we assume that as quickly as we can, we will come to Stortinget with the conclusions of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e239	The Council of State indicated, as appropriate, that maritime transport has much to say for the development of value creation in Norway. Several events and incidents in recent years have clearly shown that safety and growth along our coast are not good enough. And then I'm going to ask the Council of State about the Government and the Workers' Party's arrangement and also the promises they're making about this plan, after the Council of State's view is good enough to ensure the rise and the security that is absolutely necessary along our coast. Or the Council of State may admit that the Right's proposal for quite large additions, about 750 million. kr, would be a better proposal for Coast Norway, for the security and emergence which I have mentioned? The second concerns the right and left's proposal that the port of Karmsund and Ålesund should be regarded as national ports, which the representative of Sahl was also in. These are big ports, and there are important nodes between land and sea. I'm very disappointed that even more arrangements are needed before you can make a decision on this matter. Now the representative Steensnæs has previously signaled that the Christian People's Party will support the Right and Left's proposal, and I hope that more will join in. Finally, a matter that is very little mentioned in the transport plan, namely the important matter of the City Tunnel. Two governments have worked on the project, and I think it is bad that this case has not been completed, so that we can see it in conjunction with the national transport plan. My question will then be: When and in what way will the Council of State come back to the Stortingen with the matter of City Ship Tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e250	I agree that recent developments in shipping accidents are a serious warning about safety at sea. But I think if you're going to get a right picture of what's the cause context here, you also have to look at why things have gone wrong. There is little fault in labelling systems and navigation systems that has caused this. To a large extent, there is human failure. Then you could say that this should have been discovered, and that you have systems to discover it. You have, and we're going to use these systems to improve traffic monitoring. However, I do not believe that there are mainly large appropriations on the monitoring side to take the necessary steps to get this under control. When it comes to national ports, I want to refer to what I said instead. It is natural once we have found that the legal basis and systematics of port and water law are not good enough, that we take the months that are needed to make this work properly. Thus, the status of ‘national port’ has very little to say unless we both legally and in relation to links to other transport activities makes it work in a sensible way. As far as the City Tunnel is concerned, it is correct, as the representative Løvik says, that this has been investigated over a longer period of time. But these have been partial investigations that have not given the big connection. It is also the case that the plans have been changed over time, and the latest plans that have come are going on a much larger tunnel, which according to my knowledge should also be able to handle very large boats. We're going to figure it out separately, and we're going to get back to it in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e260	In the national transport plan: ‘Long coast there is a great need for increased maintenance on many lighthouses, lighthouses and the labelling system.’ In an answer to questions from the Committee on the Just Situation in Greater Maintenance, the Council of State points out that the budget means it must be worth 260 million. kr annually for operation, maintenance and renewal. In addition, there are some expenses associated with upgrading and repairing unmanned fortresses. At the same time, the Government of the National Transport Plan has proposed an annual framework of 204 million. kr for operation and maintenance within the service. My concrete questions are: How does the Council of State assess the proposed annual framework against the greater need outlined by the department? And my Council of State that there will be defensive operations with the framework proposed by the Government, or in other words, is safety on the coast well maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e272	I certainly believe that in the case of lighters and brands, safety is well-managed on the coast. It can definitely always get better, and, as I said before, we're going to work on it continuously. The government has notified the Storting that we will make a separate announcement about the fireworks service. It's announced in March, and it's due in March. The need for maintenance and repairs will depend on the steps taken in terms of both maintenance and operation. One of the questions that need to be addressed in the coming message is the question of manning, and that is the question of transition to maintenance systems other than those we have had to. So we're going to bring this back as our own case in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e281	The political memory is very short. I'll give some praise to the Workers' Party. If the level of appropriations for the first two years of this planning period had been continued with regard to fishing ports and fairways, the framework would not have been near. And there were allocations from the center, the Advance Party and the Right. But it's probably forgotten a long time ago -- it's almost a year since the government change. So it's like this with national ports is obviously a hot topic, and it would probably be even hotter in May – closer to the election campaign. With enough alliances, there could probably have been a lot of national ports in Norway. I was with the time it was appointed national ports and regional ports, and the Stortinge did not interfere so much in the appointment of the Government. I just have to ask: has it really meant anything since that time to have in practice the name ‘national port’, or has it been the most tumbling? I have also reviewed port statistics, and I see that there are several ports without names that are neither regional port nor national port, which have much larger tonnages in most areas – whether they be wet bulls, dry bulls, bulky goods or what they are – and which have not been required to become a national port either. Maybe they're doing well without it? My question to the Council of State is: can't we just grant all the ports that want it, to become a national port, because it doesn't matter, so that everyone can wave with their dome and say: now we have become a national port, and the election campaign is going on!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e294	I don't exclude that it could have been festive to designate very many national ports, but I think we should have respect for the matter that we are dealing with right now, which is the National Transport Plan, which is in a way the first opportunity we have to put all the transport systems in context. It is clear that we cannot bet on all ports, we cannot bet on absolutely all ports being good hubs. We have to bet that some ports get a big focus, that there will be large establishments there, and that, based on good transport to these ports and good land-based transport out, we get an efficient transport system for the future. I am aware that there are ports that are not on this list, but over which there is a large tonnage. This may also be partly private ports, and this is something we should in a way encourage if there are competitive conditions in these ports that do this. And then there could be special companies that are linked to this, which makes the tonnage high. To just get back to this with national ports, I actually think it's important to have a clear strategy for their selection, and leave it important in a big context what should be such ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e303	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e306	Good infrastructure is a prerequisite for good economy, employment and well-being in any country. Norway has lower productivity growth than our competitors and significantly higher logistical costs than the same country, which poses a threat to future employment and welfare in Norway. We have serious bottlenecks both in the road and rail sectors. In particular, this is a key issue, and the districts are also strongly affected by the fact that much of the transport to and from them is just passing through the central strata, in particular through the eastern part of the country. The right follows up its demands for better and safer roads and better accessibility. A wide range of our tribal and national roads have average daily traffic rates that far exceed what the roads are built and dimensioned for. The right-hand proposals for road frameworks allow for significantly faster implementation of fully necessary road investments. The Chairman of the Committee has presented the Right-wing Framework in his statement earlier today. The right takes the zero vision seriously in the fight against the accidents. In this regard, I refer to the visit of Prime Minister Stoltenberg and former Prime Minister Bondevik to the Undrumsdal Church, where all the traffic accidents at E18 were demonstrated with each of their living lights. – That's not how we want it. The right is positive to the increase the government places in the railway framework in relation to the period we're in, but this isn't enough, and we're increasing the frame by 600 million. kr for the next 10 years in order to support the development of the main routes in central routes. Structural measures are capable of significantly improving productivity in the development of roads and railways in this country. I refer to our proposals for measures to get the business and organisational changes needed and with a much greater degree of tendering for the tasks. The railway undertaking's experience in tendering shows the potential for money far more than we currently have. Up to 40 pst. has been served by the Railway Agency by the launch of tenders. This means that each of us will be able to get significantly better and more transportation for the same money that we use today. On the right, there will be a strong focus on Public Private Cooperation — OPS — in the development projects to contribute to a faster solution to the problems of transport. We are surprised at the government's low level of ambition to use OPS as a tool for faster transport development. The low share of public transport in total traffic is of concern to the right. Both for environmental and capacity reasons, better and more collective services will be a valuable contribution to future traffic development. It is with amazement and disappointment that we have to say that no extra funds are being added by the majority to increase passenger numbers in public transport, and in fact, the Right is alone to invest more in public transport. We who use the intercity trains experience too many delays and technical problems. This places great difficulties on passengers. We experience that the express buses pass frozen and abandoned people without being able to pick them up by train stop, as they are not allowed to pick up passengers where the NSB is operating. Passengers’ interests must be safeguarded. It is their need that is the most important factor to follow up. Therefore, all are served with alternative offers on the loaded routes. The express buses have become a success both in terms of availability, quality and cost-effectiveness. NSB BA needs the competition from the express buses in order to be able to lift itself, and passengers need the alternatives to arrive at it. I personally know that from bitter experience. The majority want to make use of road pricing, a rush-time charge, which thousands of people cannot avoid. Infant parents must adhere to working time regulations and must pick up and bring their children to and from kindergarten. Rushtime charges will catch these people into an even tighter economic network than they already live in, and will make conditions unacceptably difficult. There's only one thing to say about this: it's unsocial in the worst sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e329	Although investment in new road projects is still receiving the highest attention, there is an increasing understanding and, in fact, an increasing requirement for priority to be given to operation and maintenance in the road sector. We have a large amount of road capital that bears the mark of neglect and poor care. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, it was stated that there will be a need for some 700 million. kr extra in annual maintenance effort to avoid further deterioration of road capital. There are different reasons for the high need for maintenance, and there are different needs for maintenance means in the different counties. Both traffic growth, peak tyres and increased national road length increase the need for funds. However, it is not likely that the lack of appropriations has resulted in a reduction in the quality of the road surfaces. Already in this year's budget, there is a turn from investment to operation and maintenance of approx. 500 million. kr, and it is very gratifying that the Government is following in this direction in its national transport plan. Efforts for operation and maintenance tasks in existing transport networks will be prioritised. In the view of the Workers' Party, positive effects will be felt both for the industry, for the general driver and for the general road safety that these measures are directed towards removing bottlenecks and achieving a more uniform standard on the roads. The priority tasks also include racial protection. Operating and maintenance money is not one of the things that sends the flag to the top of anyone. Nevertheless, in my home country, Telemark, we have a little better mood, because there is a recognition in the national transport plan that the national road network in Telemark has poor tyre standards and carrying capacity. This is well documented and causality is well known. There is therefore a clear expectation that this recognition will be reflected in the annual budgets. There are many cyclists in Norway. In the Workers' Party we are busy with the bike, and we would like to see more bicycles, both for work and for leisure. It's environmentally friendly, and it's healthful, both because it reduces emissions and because it gives us good exercise. This is probably the first time that the bike has got so broad a review in a document in Stortinget. When the Workers' Party has not found it appropriate to support the proposal for a national bike strategy, it is not because we do not want to bet on bicycles. But we've now spent a lot of time on an overall plan for the whole sector, and then we're skeptical about detachment plans. It is the Workers' Party that has put the most money into walking and cycling routes in its proposal. If we mean something by betting on a bike, that's the money we need, not paper. We should all be satisfied that, through the treatment of the national transport plan, we have got some railway projects out of the celebrations and into political priorities. No one should be surprised that the Eidanger tunnel is mentioned. It is a national railway project, which Telemark has maintained through decades and prioritised as the main transport project. The tunnel will be essential for future railway operations and for interconnection between the Westfold Railway and the Southland Railway. That a joint committee gives its consent to building the Eidanger tunnel is very positive. And although not everyone has given their full support to looking at this route by rolling out the National Transport Plan in 2004, we can still hope that the time will work for the project. In this context, it is also important to establish that the rate of investment on the Westfold Railway is maintained, inter alia. with double tracks to Tønsberg – this is in order to have a full impact on investments made on Vestfoldbanen. Finally, I will allow myself to quote Søren Kierkegaard, who has said: "In a small town it is little to see, but much to hear." Kragerø is such a small town, as among others. has heard the promise of a new route for 15 years but has not seen it. The promise was given as a compensation for the closure of the Kragerøban. The fact that the coastal town is now to be given a new route to replace both for the railway and for a road built for horses and cows has created optimism and enthusiasm in the small town.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e348	When I grew up on the Jären, the bus service was quite good. During youth, the supply became progressively poorer. One could not keep up the bus service when people were running more and more cars, and people were running more and more cars as the bus service was reduced. What now remains is the provision of public transport to and from school and work at best. That's why I've been driving a lot of cars. It was basically not finished until the railway was heavily upgraded a few years ago. Then I got an offer of transport so close to where I live, and so frequent and so inexpensive that it was attractive. In addition, I come forward faster, I drop the queue on the motorway, and I travel environmentally friendly. The traffic cabin was 110 pst. on Jærbanen the first year after upgrading. At the same time, more people traveled by bus. I notice that my kids have a more positive and more conscious attitude to public transport than my generation. It's not at all due to the Railway. For this reason, I am very pleased with the plans to build double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger, and because the committee has speeded up work on this from the last to the first part of the planning period, otherwise the track would easily have been a victim of its own success. As stated in the message: ‘Currently, the stretch is heavily affected by traffic’. And on the other hand, The development of double tracks provides an opportunity to improve the provision of local train services on the North-Jear.’ The impact on the route is so great that people choose other means of transport, usually the car, which we should prevent. The goal must be to provide a good supply for more and more travellers. Then we need the double track as soon as possible. That's why I'm happy today. The development can be combined with different options for the North-Jear Railways. That makes sense. Here there are interesting plans going on, and I want to work to make double tracks for Bryne, not because I live on that stretch, but because a lot of people live there. A lot more people are going to go there, and so we have to have a reasonable bet in the future. In any case, the combination of a good offer and good youth card schemes gives me good hope that future generations will become more aware of the benefits of collective provision rather than running alone after each other. When it comes to the last one, I'm excited if we can get more people to work in the cars when we open up to trying to use the collective field for this. The transport plan emphasises safety in the transport sector. More money is prioritised for maintenance, for the resolution of bottlenecks and for racial protection. In addition, increased efforts are being made to ensure safety at sea. Serious accidents, including in my state, has reminded us of how important this is. For this reason, I am pleased that the Labour Party is in favour of increasing the rights to these purposes in the Committee's setting. The road from Rogaland to Oslo is either very long or very poor. The best way is a gigantic detour, which makes the road much longer than you need. The shortest way from Stavanger to Oslo is through a narrow road between Sirdal and Setesdal, with many kneelings up and down to the east. I think it's a bit ahead before it can become some major transport years, but it can become E134 over Haukeli, but then it should be upgraded and improved, as it is now called for. I'm glad there's a collective committee behind this. I also hope that this may eventually include upgrading Karmsund port to a national transport port. The Labour Party will come back to this, as the Minister for Fisheries did. Haugaland is a region of strong growth, but further development depends on good transport solutions. As it is easier to get from the south to the north, E134 will be a shorter road for running southwards in the state. Finally, one of the other issues we are discussing here today, namely the partial toll financing of the T-link between Karmøy, Haugesund and Tysvær. A multiple in Rogaland Labour Party was previously negative to this project. But, so that's now said clearly and clearly: the working party is no longer negative. We think of this as a completely necessary improvement of the connection in this part of the county. Then it was Skudene's connection made after the T-connection was built out. It may be reasonable to continue this offer as a national road link. The Committee asks the Ministry to provide the necessary clearances with the county before any termination of the link. My hope is that this assessment will also assess whether this link should continue as a national ferry link, i.e. the Mekkarvik-Kvitsøy-Skudenes link, even though the Committee feels in this context that it is a county responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e376	The President cannot see that Lars Rise, who is the next speaker, is present in the Chamber – we hope he is not in a traffic jam! The President then gives the floor to Mr Skag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e381	For the Workers' Party, it has been important to find transport solutions that ensure both the environment, accessibility, safety and value creation. We know that traffic and environmental problems in metropolitan areas and districts are different. Transport policy must therefore be followed up accordingly, as the Government’s proposal for a national transport plan for the period 2002-2011 has taken into account. When reading a transport plan and the position of the Committee on Transport in the context, it is not difficult to see that there is a broad consensus here in the House on the objectives of transport policy, despite the different priorities on which the parties wish to base. As a representative of Eastfold, it is natural to stress that areas of the country with high traffic pressures need to be given more help from the state to develop and develop both collective and road investment that can help to solve environmental, health and safety problems more quickly. In Eastfold, traffic on the national road network has increased more than twice the national average in recent years. The strong growth of traffic would threaten capacity limits if E6 and E18 were not developed through the county as foreseen by the Decision last year on the so-called Eastfold package. It is known to be built on an investigation into an overall transport system in the county and covers not only the main roads but also the road links to the ports, the railways and the transport system of urban areas. The E6 and E18 main roads form two of the sides of the Nordic Triangle and are Norway’s main road links to the EU area and the continent. The two main roads serve together approx. 70 pst. of the country's total goods transported by road to and from abroad per year. years. In addition, E6 and E18 have an essential role to play in passenger travel to and from abroad. This traffic is growing very strongly. The road standard on these tribal roads is far from satisfactory. If we are to be able to solve all the problems that one now has to face, and which have unfortunately also resulted in thousands of traffic accidents – many unfortunately with death – we must therefore have the will to speed up the development of the Eastfold package. In the booklet ‘Trafikksicherheit på väg 2002-2011’, published by the Ministry of Transport in connection with the National Transport Plan, Minister for Transport Terje Moe Gustavsen, in the foreword: ‘The long-term road safety work of the Government in the road sector shall be based on a vision of no fatal or life-long damage.’; That's good! When society has to take a greater part in the responsibility for the future not to be killed or life-long harm in traffic, yes, then society also has to repair the road standard. In that case, one must be willing to grant the means necessary to achieve such an objective. I assume that a quick solution for the toll system for E6, as one has found for E18. It is also important, as emphasised in the Stortinget last year during the treatment of the Easternfold package, that a parallel to the repair of the two tribal routes also has to start rapidly with the expansion of the double-track from the Gulf of Sand to the new Moss station. I refer here to what the majority of the Committee on Transport said in the Innst. S. No 111 for 1999-2000, where the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left asked the Ministry for funding in the National Transport Plan 2002-2011. We know that the Right also fully supported this, so that there was a large majority of the sitting crowd who wanted a railway bet in Moss. With the present attitude, unfortunately, it must be noted that the same will is unfortunately not as visible. I strongly regret that, but at the same time I hope that this important matter can be raised again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e401	Getting more of car-to-public passenger transport is a major challenge. Environmental and traffic security benefits are highest in urban areas. The Central Party is part of the multiplicity mandated by the Government in the context of the 2002 budget to do its best to increase the volume of public transport its part of passenger transport. The main responsibility for the design of public transport has been added to the counties. The county authorities buy passenger transport services for buses and boats. The tight economic environment in many countries has led to a satisfactory supply of materials or routes. In metropolitan areas, of course, traffic flows between several municipalities. According to the view of the Centre Party, the County Council shall also allocate the funds and coordinate the supply. We are pleased that the budget agreement in the autumn provides for a review of the debt situation in the local government sector. A reorganization of liabilities corresponding to two times the Gardermo debt would give operating means, trade freedom and also more to collective supply. The centre party has committed itself to increasing the funds also for the railway sector to ensure better public transport. I am very pleased that the success of the Jærbanen now seems to have to be expanded before the government has thought. It will have a lot to say for development and construction, and is a project the Center Party has on its list within the funds that we want to spend extra on, in relation to its organization. The decision today on partial toll financing of the T-connection represents a very important step towards major positive changes in business and construction, especially in Karmøy, but also for Haugesund and Tysvær. There is one example of how much local interest is willing to serve to ensure better communication. I'm slipping with Haugaland today. The T-connection was a municipal initiative based on interaction with the municipalities in question. It is a leading example of what one achieves with good local coordination. St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 refers to mainland relations with Ryfylke, a project that has been characterised by local contradictions for many years. Now the situation is different, and the work on the Ryfylke transport plan is so far characterized by broad political agreement. The county of Rogaland planned the finalisation of its meeting in June. There seems to be a negotiation about the solution selection. And I'd like to take note of a comment that exists in the setting, an initiative from the Central Party that has the bulk of the population behind it, and where one suggests that the department will follow this matter more closely when local policy decisions are ready. It is much more offensive than the Ministry’s view of rolling the plan from 2006 to 2011, but now there is also a better basis for following up this matter with what has happened in the meantime. And I want to ask the Council to confirm that he has noticed this task. And then, finally, I'm going to go through the fight that has to take place when it comes to investment, to share it better in our long-term country. Reports have been submitted to show that while the share of government investment in the central east region was 24 pst. in 1988, the corresponding part in 1998 is in excess of 60 pst. Now there is a lot of groundwork in the transport sector, and the best way to get out of it is, when we are going to invest in the future, to support an increased framework and for a better distribution of investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e417	Norway's densest populated valley lies in the thickest Oslo and is called Groruddalen. There are about 130,000 inhabitants here. The quality of life of the inhabitants of the Groruddalen depends on the responsible political environment of the state and the municipality cleaning up after past sins. A four-field highway is going down through the entire valley, and the Gardermout building has further deteriorated the environment, both in the case of increased traffic and, of course, in the case of overflights. Different air measurements have established that the air is highly contaminated and worse than assumed. The Municipality of Oslo has now set up a planning office for the Groruddalen, and a comprehensive strategy and action plan for the valley will be developed. I am very pleased that the Committee on Transport is now unanimously calling on the responsible department to contribute to such work, and I would like to thank my party groups in the Committee for having listened to this matter. I believe the Committee's comments on the Groruddalen represent a real breakthrough to take seriously the big city's needs and challenges. The Committee assumes that, no later than the next roll-out in 2004, plans have been completed for overall infrastructure measures to improve the environmental standard in Groruddalen. For Oslo, it is also important that the Committee acknowledges that state missions actually have a responsibility for part of the environmental pollution in the Grorud valley, and thus also a responsibility for cleaning up afterwards. A lower tunnel in Bjørvika is a prerequisite for the main gateway to Norway not to continue to look like a pig's path, full of suspended particulate matter, heavy transport and with the Postgiro building as the leading eye-catcher – at least before the Thon Hotel is finished – surrounded by a roaring traffic machine and scrap heaps. In fact, this is how foreigners meet Norway. The Bjørvika can rightly be called the largest of all street children around Oslo S: orphaned and without support contact. But the area can become the capital's pearl and cultural center. Here are, for example: The largest collection of medieval ruins in the Nordic region. This is where the new opera house has to be. It is important that the majority of the Committee believes that the Bjørvika project is both a transport and urban development project. But now is the time for us to get ahead of establishing a development company with state, municipality and private actors. The multi-headed troll state, which also doesn't always speak with the same voice, and the Municipality of Oslo has for a long time been running a pingpong game where no one has wanted to take the ball. I now want to ask the Minister for Transport to help establish a development company. Oslo is also a port town and a maritime center. As a national port, Oslo has a responsibility for the transport needs of the region. We need to ensure a balance between, on the one hand, giving Oslo's population access to the sea and, on the other, that Oslo is actually Norway's main port. This is achieved in an excellent way by the so-called “Sjøby” option of Oslo Arbeiderparti. I note that also the Right in the Committee joins in this, and I note that the Oslo Right has noticed it, and that the Per-Christian Foss earlier today actually joined the comments of the Left and Socialist Left Party. Finally, for the Workers' Party, it is important that traffic growth in the Oslo area be taken within public transport. For us in Oslo, a strengthening of the T-Bahn has absolute first priority. With 70 million passengers this year, the second largest carrier in the Oslo area is the T-Bahn. However, the T-Bahn is now operating at the limit of its capacity and is unable to deliver the expected quality. Maintenance and expansion are and will be necessary in the future. My vision is that in a few years we can take a real boost for the T-Bahn, further develop the metro project in the capital and turn the T-Bahn into the natural and desirable transport service for the entire city, of course in close cooperation with other public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e440	One of the proposals the Stortinget is dealing with today is a Document No. Eight proposals, signed as one of the proposers. Proposals to increase the speed of Class A motorways from 90 to 110 km/h. Class A motorways are the safest roads we have. It will not affect the number of accidents to increase the speed limit on such roads, which have four fields and physical divisions. It will only contribute to the more efficient closure of traffic. It is already the case that most people are driving at 110 km/h on motorways today – at least on dry roads. However, the proposal does not appear to have a majority. However, I register that we are partly met by trying at the 100 km/h limit. Of course, we are pleased about this. So a few words about express buses. These establishments have increased sharply in recent years. Even I'm from a district that's come in the back of these buses. We've been in the Drammen area for a long time on the Time Express route from Notodden to Oslo walking through the city. However, we have had little or no opportunity to use the offer. You have not been allowed to pick up passengers most of the day. This has been decided by the majority of the political groups. The purpose, as I understand it, should be that the express buses should not compete with the train connection – which is crowded, unprecise and characterized by low service. I record that you may be able to get some decorations as a result of the setting we are handling today, but I fear that this will not benefit the Drammen area because of the possibilities of competing out of the railway. I am very disappointed that there will not be a majority in favour of the proposals of the Advance Party and the Right to open the way for the free establishment of express buses. As mentioned, I'm a dramatist. This has meant that I have had a significant interest in the Road Package Drammen. It is with pleasure and relief that I see that all the parties seem to be standing together that the agreement on the Road Package Drammen will be followed up, and that the schedule will be kept. The only thing I'm a little worried about is that a joint committee has not joined in the profound remarks about the road package that the Progress Party has promoted. This has only been supported by the Center Party and SV. Is this an expression that you want to have the opportunity to go back on your promises to the Drama? When the potting option is over, do you turn it right? Only time can give us an answer to this. As regards the E18 crossing of Drammenselva, Drammen has required an impact assessment of alternatives to this. There are significant environmental and aesthetic impacts in this development, and it is therefore sad that only the Progress Party clearly states that an investigation should be carried out. E134 is another road map that significantly affects Buskerud. With regard to the E134 past Kongsberg, it is with some disappointment that I note that the Progress Party alone is pointing to the need for a new road outside Kongsberg center – the Damåsen–Saggrenda parcel. The Progress Party has proposed that this work should start as soon as possible once the Trace Election has been clarified. We have also proposed 800 million. kr extra to this road section. A good part of the inhabitants of Buskerud are affected by road solutions outside their own country. This applies, inter alia, to: road Oslo-Dramen. Another road map that affects is the Sandvika E16. Here, too, there are disappointments going on. In fact, I have come to realize that all parties, as close as SV, are aware of the problems with E16 over Solli Height, but you are defensive and push the problems ahead. In the case of the route Rørvik-Vik, trasé selection has not been made. In the view of the Progress Party, this must be done as soon as possible and work must be started. This route is a significant bottleneck. The project has a framework of DKK 400 million. Overall, the Progress Party wants to increase the E16 framework by DKK 1.7 billion. The tunnel under the Oslofjorden is a project that significantly affects the Busherud state. In practice, I'm talking about Rv 23 through the smoke and Lier into the Drammen. The population of Lier and Røken failed by the majority of Stortinget. All lots except the Progress Party link the development of the Linnes-Day Tunnel Solution to the development of the tolls entering the fjord link. However, it is actually such that these revenues are decreasing, among other things. because of the terrible road systems on the Buskerud side of the compound. This is likely to lead the population to shoot a white arrow after quick solutions to the perilous and wretched road solutions. today. The progress party is the only party that clearly states that Linnes-Dagslet must be given priority so that it can be started as soon as possible. In addition, the level work must be completed as soon as possible with Rv 23’s connection to E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e461	Transport engages people in all parts of the country. It is often the case that those living in the press areas do not see the importance of spending money on transportation in District Norway. At the same time, those living in District Norway are often given the amount of travel money used in the press areas. I'm not going to elaborate on this, but just say that our country is going to produce and sell goods, we have to have a comprehensive transport policy that takes into account the prosperity of both the city and the countryside. I think that the setting takes good account of, and I want to mention some important projects in this regard. I am pleased that the setting clearly states that the mainland connection of Lofoten should be started early in the period, and that there are funds set aside for the project to be completed in a rational way. This is an important project to which considerable uncertainty has been attached, but which is now finding its solution. I also find that an overall committee has a scheme that allows for a quick start of the important internal path on Senja, and I expect that to happen. I am also pleased that both the notification and the setting open up alternative uses of ferry subsidies for ferry relief projects. I myself raised questions about this in the Stortinget as early as 1998, because I see that this could be the opportunity to significantly improve the offer to the inhabitants of our island communities, while at the same time the public can both save money and make money on it. Such combinations aren't as often as we can. In the context of investigations into such projects, it is important to take into account all aspects, including saved ferry costs, other public savings and better business conditions. I know well about the Bjarkøy project, which is mentioned as an example in the setting, and I believe that this is a good project that needs to be carried out quickly. I also believe that it is important for county councils to carry out such projects in order to improve the provision of transport for residents in ferry-dependent areas. Racism and racism are a major obstacle to housing and business in many districts. In my home country, Troms, we all remember with horror back in the last winter where the races were many, and the race father was overhanging for a long time. Worse was the racial accident in Lyngen, where human life also went on. Many businesses also suffered significant losses due to race, racial danger and long periods of closed roads. Therefore, racial protection must be given a very high priority. I am pleased that the Committee is aware of the terrible conditions of the terminal at Bardufoss Airport. The conditions here are miserable both for the travellers and for the employees. This is a short and well-known issue of a work environment issue. I hope now that there will be no more postponements regarding this terminal, and that the solutions chosen will be of an acceptable standard. I regret that the committee has raised the question of a new bridge over the Rombaksfjord in Northern Ireland. Such a bridge will reduce the distance between Narvik and Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, to 55 km. I would like so much to ask for further work to be done on this project. It is necessary to facilitate better use of the capacity at Harstad/Narvik Airport. This can be done by shutting down the Narvik airport and by giving travellers from this area good access to use Harstad/Narvik Airport at Evenes. It follows from the recommendation that the Government’s proposal for a national transport plan is almost without exception taken into account. However, it also includes rural policy improvements that the Workers' Party is behind and that form part of a comprehensive transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e493	In my article I would like to point out some elements in the setting of special interest. From a completely rail-free constituency on the coast, I would like to mention some of the road and waterway challenges. Under the heading ‘Alternative use of ferry subsidies, etc.’, the majority point to the fact that bridges, roads and tunnels can be easily financed if the measure relieves other expenditure-making activities. Of course, there is mention here of the absence of the need for ferry subsidies, but the majority mentions the potential for savings in a possible community merger. In a well-known style, the centre indicates how fun it is with Bru even when intermunicipal cooperation is to be conducted. Everyone knows, however, that the savings potential, as was the only point here, is really gone. There are also many ideas for changing tickets and tariffs for the different customer groups in the Committee's comments. The Workers’ Party even proposes a charge of a rush time on ferries, in order to understand that it requires countermeasures. No proposals here have a majority, and all verbal measures in favour of ferries are either aimed at diverting costs to business or unfunded. The centre party is – not unexpectedly – the largest in promising a free ferry trip, but does not have five cents to contribute to what is already funded in the 2001 budget. With regard to the release of funds through competitive ferry operations, the Workers' Party and the Centre are treading the water and thus do not escape the stain, despite the fact that the Government has seen the possibilities, and others have demonstrated the savings potential. It is strange, however, that a majority cannot aim for a win solely because one does not feel sure if the amount of the win is 10 pst. or 13 pst. In Tuesday’s debate on the state of the state of the state, a political concept called ‘Museskrit’ was introduced. The reusable value and the transfer value of the concept are quite large, and the term «museskrit» also applies to the majority's movement with regard to the framework conditions of the express buses, despite the fact that the proposed plan had the following text: ‘It is not rational to use scarce State resources for the purchase of rail services if passengers prefer to choose such bus services, while there is a great need for action in the railway sector elsewhere.’ Right will allow for the free establishment of express buses. The working party is talking about the slow embellishment of the concession terms, and the center turns around and turns on the small car diesel refund, which they otherwise greatly reduced before Christmas. Talk about saving the money and letting the valley go! Under the chapter on fairways, the Committee agrees that the investment strategy should be safety-related for maritime transport – also so that high speed and safety can be reconciled. In addition, the minority – the Advance Party and the Right – are rightly critical that the message on the organisation of the Coastal Works, the Fyselvesene and the distribution of the shipbuilding tunnel through the City State is not harmonised in time with the National Transport Plan. The latter two documents are not at all available at this stage. Nevertheless, it is commendable that the majority — albeit to varying degrees — take economic account of the possible realization of a ship’s tunnel through the City of Stadland despite the lack of distribution from the Government. It's important for many people that the Right is putting in the largest contribution to the Coastal Plant of 750 million. kr during the ten-year period. Finally, I need to go strongly in the right direction with the Center Party's Jorunn Ringstad. In a previous line change with the undersigned, the Centre Party was confronted with its promises in the old road plan and their lack of follow-up in the principal budget. The representative, Ringstad, spoke of willingness to negotiate, but the party has an independent responsibility for its principal annual budget! While the centre was in government, they were due to a permanent high temperature in the Norwegian economy, but now the representative owes Ringstad on the Right. This is relatively gross and calls for protest. Now, the centre has stopped making principal proposals for the annual budget. Thus, they can carefully tell us what was possible in negotiations, and therefore owe it to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e520	It is a comprehensive and important debate on Norwegian transport policy that we have here today. The fact that we are now receiving a cross-sectoral plan for both road, rail, air and maritime transport, which will apply until 2004, is good. It is gratifying that appropriations for transport are being increased and that there is now a broad consensus on the principles of transport policy in the transport plan. It is only when one comes to the financial framework that individual parties have more money. But it is irrelevant, because the transport plan is not an economically binding document. It is in the annual budgets that the real money is allocated. With regard to the partial toll financing of E18 in East Agder, the proposals are very happy. Anyone who wants a rapid expansion realizes that it's only through toll collection that it's possible to get a time-consuming road standard throughout East Agder. Today, two thirds of the E18 does not have motorway standard. I am aware that it is not popular to charge 20 kroner, but those who oppose it must wait 30, yes 40 years and perhaps even longer before the E18 is completed with a motorway. Getting motorways will separate traffic, so that softer road users avoid transit traffic and heavy transport on national roads. After all, the motorway is only for motor vehicles. So getting toll finance means that the highway is getting a lot faster, and many lives are being saved. The rapid expansion of tolls is not only important for the inhabitants of East Agder. I would like to remind you that the Oslo-Kristiansand network is the most important transport link in the whole country. It is important to propose means of road safety along the current E18 as well as means of strengthening public transport. There is no funding for railway development in Gjerstad, and it is disappointing for Brokelandsheia, which is a natural node in the eastern region of East Agder. But I understand that it is difficult to allocate funds to something that is so far ahead of time. After all, the new Border Railway is not a priority during this ten-year period, which will take both 10 and 20 years before the new station, if any, is needed. I would like to comment on the OPS project that will come on one or more of the sections Grimstad-Kristiansand, and also on a section in West Agder, Handeland-Feda, as some of the first in the country. And the company that gets the job of construction, operation and maintenance must then show that it is economically and professionally reasonable. If that's a good result, we'll get more money, and everyone will be happy – but that's what time will show. What the district council in East Agder has adopted, and which I strongly support, is that the Kristiansand-Grimstad section is being built with the new standard narrow four-field road, and that this is also a test project. I am aware that this will cost the project up to 50 p.m., but with an annual traffic of 10,000 – and more in summer time – it will be a little forward looking not to build for the future. The growth in Agder cities is great, not least between Grimstad and Kristiansand. I am also satisfied that it will start in 2001 and that a loan withdrawal is granted for earlier start-up. The entire extension is set at 2 110 million. kr and a key for distribution of 54 pst. on tolls and 46 pst. by state resources. This should have been 50-50-sharing in my opinion. But this and other things are something that we can come back to in the annual budgets ahead, and I'm going to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e543	Of course, Harald Haarfager was not primarily a transport policy. But in return, he did something else that we've been struggling with in the 1,100 years since he did. He gathered something that was far, strange and different, to one kingdom. Yes, over the course of these 1,100 years, it has actually become even longer and even more different – if it has become stranger, I will have no idea about it. Not least today's transport theme suggests that it is this inequality and this whole thing that is our main challenge in the field of transport policy. It may well be that the inhabitants of a small village who have been shut off from the outside world because the road has fallen off, do not worry above all that the big cities are being strangled in their own traffic. It may also be that those who live in big cities with environmental pollution, and who come too late to work every day, don't worry so much about the small village. Maybe it's even so that both parties can live with the difficulties of the other. But the country cannot live with such a situation. And that's exactly why balanced and flexible development across the country is the only sensible response to the challenges of transport we have. I'm going to respect that people are concerned about this, but if a fine balance between districts and central districts is the most important political issue in this debate, I find it a little unsatisfactory. At my best discretion, the National Transport Plan, as it exists from the Government's hand, and the setting of the Storting, as it exists from the Transport Committee's hand with some – I would say – marginal differences, this balance inside. This balance sheet is the most important thing for us. And it must also be when there is urgent transport needs at our home, in our local area, because without this whole thing, the country's communications are not linked. The key to this is flexibility. In some places the car is an enemy in the sense that the car has to be cleared away in order to give room to the environment, to the feasibility. In other places the car is necessary, because it is the only form of communication available. To turn a little bit to that part of the country I know best: the idea of transport corridors is an excellent idea. Some of them are moving on my homelands. And the whole point of transport corridors and packages is to show that flexibility can be better and longer than each mode of transport can do separately. That's why we have to say in some of these liquidations: yes, thank you, both. But not according to the Ole Brumm principle, which is that you're going to squander x the number of millions and billions on top of each other, but so that we get the real balances we're going to have on how these things work together. And at the very end, in brackets, this must also have the involvement of local and municipal authorities, so that one makes the necessary decisions and sees the necessary contexts to ensure that the whole and the plan can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e554	Most of the production of goods and services along the Norwegian coast has the international market as a recipient. For Coast Norway, an active transport policy combined with an active trade policy is a prerequisite for putting action behind the political visions of District and Coast Norway that are so much discussed in the Stortinget. That is why I hope that key projects can now be completed, and that projects such as Lofast and Korgberget in my own country, can now look forward to obtaining the priority necessary for realization. It is also positive that the projects Helgelandskreuzet and the bridge link Ornes-Øyjord in Lofoten are drawn into the transport plan. It is very unfair that Foreign Norway is penalised with a very high level of costs – costs that are peculiar and that come at the top of distance costs that impede competition in the international market. Most regrettable is the fact that it is the northern part of the country that in recent years has systematically lost its share of total transport appropriations, a description that was correctly reproduced earlier today by the representative Myrvoll. Right wants to make Coast-Norway and District-Norway more competitive, and better facilitate business development. That is why we also see this again in the annual budgets through our road actions and our investment in the port sector. We now want Melbu port in place. We believe that projects such as Lovund, Ballstad, Hope, Selöi in Herey and other port projects that have been waiting for years for realization, and which simply provide society with a very good dietary benefit, must be put in place. It is regrettable that most of the projects mentioned are expected to wait for years to come. When the Right so strongly wants to prioritise fishing ports, it is because we know that these projects need to be solved in order to create further investments in the local environment – investments that are necessary to secure existing jobs and to create new ones. For the Right, transportation is one of our most important areas of activity, simply because we have too many unsolved tasks in this sector, and because the focus on transport is on good industrial policy. If jobs and housing in District Norway are to be maintained and developed, there is a greater sense of communication among the requirements we are most likely to meet on our journeys in the municipalities. It is therefore desirable today that the wholesale treatment of the national transport plan be slightly more than a long wish list marked by the fact that it is an electoral year. For there is something that characterises the fate of previous transport plans, and there is a systematic lack of follow-up in the budgetary years of the centre parties and the Workers' Party. There's a bad habit in Stortinget to promise a lot when messages like this are dealt with in the spring session, so to break the promises when the budget proposal comes on the table in the fall. Unfortunately, the area of transport is the policy area where most unobserved promises are made. For this reason, many people today are asking questions about the credibility of the additional priorities adopted today. If the Centre and the Workers' Party feel something about the beautiful statements and visions of District Norway, then real ambitions need to be put in place, and they need to show that they want to fight for larger transport appropriations in Norway. Those who remember the 1997 transport plan treatment, where the Right was with, among other things, the mid-terms of an increase in road priorities of NOK 5 billion, have not forgotten that after a few days in government offices, the centre parties quickly ran away from their promises. The most wonderful transport debates I attend are the many explanation rounds that the Centre and the Workers' Party are able to run in this area, while these parties are not shy about attacking the Right for lower cultural stakes, lower agricultural stakes or, for example, lower SND bets. For the right, the choice is okay. We are able to opt out to be able to give priority and focus heavily on the transport sector. There's a lot written in the transport plan about airline fares in the north. Prices have reached a reprehensible high level, a level which greatly contributes to strengthening the deportation from District Norway. This issue now needs to be given greater attention. The price level is no longer to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e574	We are all concerned with transport, and it is visible in the public debate. Still adventurous on the road and path theme. The working party will have transport solutions that ensure the environment, accessibility, housing, well-being, security and value creation. In cities and urban areas, public transport must be such that it is a good alternative to the car. I also count the Gjøvik Railway in urban areas, because there are many commuters who use it every day from Gjøvik to Oslo. Unfortunately, freight transport by rail is closed down. It was unable to compete with the car, but there must be the possibility of a reassessment if the track gets the necessary upgrading. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has pointed out that in previous railway plans there have been funds that have been re-prioritized to other urgent investment measures on the rail network in the eastern region. Particular attention has been paid to the need for better power supply and new crossing tracks. The Committee recommends that the Ministry assess whether there is room for such measures within the Railway Agency’s investment budget. NSB short-range has covered the track. Project work is in progress to find a new operational concept, a work to be completed in mid-March. It is essential that this results in offensive investment for the upgrading of overhead contact line, the extension of cross-rails, remote control, automatic train stop, railway upgrading and new wagon material, and that this is joined by the group board and the Minister of Transport. People want a better rail service. We do not accept what we see, that it is getting worse and worse. The fact that there are no open stations can now be so, but it must then be necessary to get the necessary upgrade as it has previously been granted money! It would be a good investment to ensure a train offer that is good enough for commuters to prefer track to road, both safety, environmental and traffic pressure towards the capital. The offer has also been substantially reduced on the Dovre track. Important departures are set, and trains pass through the Gudbrand valley, not in the Gudbrand valley. They almost don't stop anymore. If people want to be on the train, they must first travel by car. We can't have it like that in District Norway. We must have collective offers that are real offers to people, not just trains that suser by. In the districts, we also need good roads. I'm glad that a majority have been in favour of point-to-point improvements to the E6 in Gudbrandsdalen, and that the tribal road through Valdres to Lærdal is in favour of the setting. Row 4 will come to Stortinget as its own case. It is a local toll financing decision. There are large commodity-producing enterprises in the area and dense population. New roads from the Toten area and to the capital must under no circumstances be at the expense of the Gjøvik Railway! Uppland County has sent a unanimous decision to the Transport Committee in Stortinget addressing the problem of the decline in investment and maintenance appropriations on the Uppland road network. The level of national road investment in Uppland has decreased during the 1990s and now accounts for only 1.7 pst. of the country’s investment framework. The level of the maintenance framework has fallen despite significant traffic growth. Over the last four years, Uppland's share has been gradually reduced in relation to the national average, and when we deal with this, we often meet that you had the OL, and then you got rusted up for many years. Yes, we had the OL. It was in 1994, and it's been seven years since these days. It was in Lillehammer until Øyer and in Gjøvik we got some repairs to meet the traffic during the Winter Games, which was a national bet. The rest of Uppland did not receive anything at the time and has had to thank for reduced appropriations in all years afterwards. The Gudbrand valley has several dangerous bottlenecks. 5 pst. of Norway’s exports are carried from the West and down Gudbrandsdalen. I am therefore pleased with the increased investment it is in the setting of the national transport plan. The increased bet that the Workers' Party enters into the ten-year period will lead to the resolution of bottlenecks, racial protection and walking and cycling roads – and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e603	There are about a million people living in Oslo and Akershus. The need for better transport solutions is great. The Christian People's Party will make a strong commitment to a better collective offer in this region. With sufficient effort, the need to invest in the development of the road network will not be the same. Having said that, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party wants a solution with the Mossevej in the tunnel. We are also very pleased that we can now get to a lower tunnel in Bjørvika. It promises a positive development of the country's capital. It is therefore completely wrong what has been said in the headlines, among other things. in the evening post, that the Stortingen’s treatment of the national transport plan means that the project Mossevejen in the tunnel is being scrapped. The store has previously said yes to Oslopak 2 and the collection of extra tolls. Oslopack 2 is a real and absolutely necessary bet on the collective offer in Oslo and its surroundings. Two important elements are included in the national transport plan: the double tracks from Oslo S to Ski and from Skøyen to Asker. It was a great disappointment that the government did not find room to complete the track to Asker or the track to Ski during the planning period. The more happy it is that there is now a majority to realize the full double track of Asker during the period, also the distance from Lysaker to Skøyen. The Christian People's Party spends NOK 2.7 billion more than the Government during the decade and wants faster progress also for the double track to Ski. If Oslo and Akershus go in to extend the bombing or otherwise charge user payments, we will also be able to secure additional funds for collective action after 2007. The introduction of road pricing will also provide funds for transport purposes in the region. We may need that for both double tracks, for better tram and bus solutions, and not least for upgrading the T-Bahn. In addition, we also need increased support for the operation of the collective service. It should not cost much more to take the bus than to drive through the bombing. The main action in Oslo must be collective action. Another priority area needs to be better equipped for bicycles. It is sad that there is no majority for the Christian People's Party's proposal for a national bike strategy and clearing up traffic rules. It is also regrettable that a majority has not joined our proposal that states prioritizing the organisation of bicycles and public transport should be presented when allocating funds to other national roads. Despite a real commitment to public transport, some road sections in Oslo and Akershus need improvement and have too little capacity. One such road is the E16 in Bærum, one of the most accident-affected sections of the country. A distance between Solli Height and Sandvika is within the national transport plan, but that is not good enough. We have to find a solution that can give room to repair larger parts of this way than the state frameworks of Oslo and Akershus and E16 give room for. If the tolling is extended after 2007, E16 from Sandvika to Sollihögda must have the highest priority within the part of the tolling to be used in Akershus. In the meantime, it is important to implement measures that can improve road safety. The Christian People's Party Group wants to find a solution with the Mossevej in the tunnel. It's urgent to get a solution to the bottleneck in traffic represented by Mossevejen today. It is therefore important that Oslo and Akershus decide, as a matter of urgency, to prioritize the project so that it can be approved – either as a OPS project or as a normal toll project. It will in any case be a prerequisite that it can be financed through tolls. We will not put Mossevejen in line with projects in Oslo until Oslo itself has carried out a priority. It is therefore important that Oslo, in cooperation with Akershu County Council, carry out a review of the priority projects. There are many projects within Oslopackak 1 that cannot be realised within the agreed framework. Oslopack 2 is also currently missing much of the funding. In addition, there is a desire for new projects on the priority list. Therefore, a local review is needed. When a priority list is available, we can take the necessary decisions, including: to get the Mossevej in the tunnel. If Oslo is willing to look at opportunities to increase or continue the user payment after 2007, it will allow for increased efforts. Then we can find rooms for more projects within Oslopackak 2 and then the Mossevej may also be up-to-date as a OPS project or with 100 pst. toll financing in a more traditional way. Therefore, it has not been claimed by some in the media that the treatment of the National Transport Plan by the Stortinge means that the Mosseweg in the tunnel is being shut down. Today, Oslo and Akershus will be able to take a new initiative, set up a priority list and look at the possibilities for payment after 2007. Then the road may also be open to the Mosseweg in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e626	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e630	For the Oslo region, the transport plan is a pleasant pat on the shoulder. Problems associated with queue, cork and chaos, crowded buses and trains that do not come are recognized by most parties. The environmental problems associated with exhaust gases and noise are of great concern. But where is the will to take a force to ease the problems and avoid strengthening them in the coming years? The right will invest in public transport and increase road capacity. The Centre and the Workers' Party respond with proposals for a running-time charge. A new charge shall tax people off the road and force them on a collective offer that does not even have the power to provide today's passengers with a satisfactory offer. There are highlights in the attitude of the Committee on Transport. There is reason to rejoice over the bet on the double track on the railway between Skøyen and Asker. In addition, there is reason to rejoice that the Storting has listened to the population along the E16 from Vøjenga to Solli Height. For good reason, this route has been called the Way of Death. Until a new E16 is built, the road must be secured. But good will and a glimpse of light at the end of the tunnel help little, the challenges taken into account. When Fornebu was closed in 1998, 75 000 cars passed daily at the E18 on Lysaker. The 2010 forecast is 130 000 cars, or an increase of more than 50,000 cars per day. This growth does not come as a wish from those who live in Asker and Bærum. Let me just remind you that it is the state that has forced the municipality of Bærum to build more dwellings and establish more jobs at Fornebu. In the Lysaker, Fornebu and Skøyen area, there will be 30 000 new jobs in the years up to 2010. In other words, we know that what's bad is going to get worse. I hope that more than right away will show the will and ability to solve these challenges. The same problems that exist in the west corridor, we find south of Oslo on the Mosseweg. On this route too, challenges need to be addressed in a combination of better roads and public transport. The Moss road and the E18 west corridor should be seen in a context. A solution to this project will bring significant environmental and economic benefits. The right sets of more money for public transport and for roads, but we are also at the forefront of new solutions: public-private cooperation and a series of measures to make more of the resources available to us. I am pleased to note that the centre parties reject the proposal for a rush-time charge on the ferries in District Norway. But where is the defense for the commuters in the Oslo area and the other cities? The working party and center demonstrate their powerlessness when the most concrete means of preventing queue, cork and chaos around our cities is an extra charge at the city limit of 40-50 kroner. Where is the consideration of young children’s parents who are struggling with both the time budget and the household budget? The right has announced a fight against drug use and for better public transport and better roads. This will be an electoral campaign – and I am happy to!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e651	Ålesund port is Norway’s second largest and most important port in terms of the value of fish exports in this country. The export of fish together with significant exports from the furniture, process and mineral industries makes Ålesund port the fourth largest port in Norway for exports in Norway. Ålesund port is currently a time-based port that meets the requirements of a modern port facility today. Eelsunden has deliberately been committed to facilitating business conditions so that the goods can be properly shipped out. In recent years, Ålesund has provided for the construction of a new port of container and a new port of fisheries, and further port expansions are also planned to enable one to satisfy the industries of the future in terms of their needs to get the ship out of its products. There has been a long talk in this Chamber about the importance of focusing on the opportunities offered by the fisheries industry. But when it comes to the problem, I probably have to question whether this is a party speaker and not a real policy. Where a commitment to development in the fishing industry is to be made, provision must also be made for proper shipping of the goods. Therefore, the signal effect which it will have to give Norway’s remote major fishing port status as a national port is important. I'm also going to call on the Center Party to join the rest of the center parties. This is, to the most extent, district policy, and it is important district policy, because the ability of the fishing industry and other industries in the districts to export their products is crucial for the survival of the industry in the districts. I also hope that part of the representatives from the Workers' Party will support this matter, because it is very important. The county council in More and Romesdal with the head of the centre party rapporteur has requested that Ålesund port be given national port status. The local workers' party politicians also ask for the same. I hope that in this room you can give it this status now. The Progress Party also sees the importance of Karmsund port being given the national port status as a wish. It is also a district with large, expansionary growth, which wants to facilitate a business development that allows the district to continue to have a large business life. The Progress Party will therefore support proposal No. 19 that Karmsund port is also granted national port status.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e666	It has been difficult for a long time to get money for transportation in South Africa. There has been a great deal of frustration over the lack of road appropriations. With a small proportion of motorway-standard roads, with high accident levels, low prosperity and major environmental problems, it has become a popular requirement that ‘now it is our turn’. This cohesion and consensus among politicians and business led to an action that was noted. It is not often a sighting shipowners, principals, local politicians, investors and a bishop wearing reflective vests and trains through the capital! The demand was for several millions of roads, and that the pace must be increased if we are to succeed in our vision of building and maintaining business life, establishing new jobs and places of study, and creating robust and secure communities. East-Agder doesn't just want to demand everything from others. We've been willing to pay a lot of money ourselves through tolls. Decisions on two toll stations have been a clear signal that we have locally been willing to use our own funds. Both the previous and the current Minister for Transport have expressed a positive opinion on the partial toll-financed development of parts of E18 in East Agder. I am grateful that the Minister for Transport has kept his word, and I support the vote. The party's resistance to tolls had pushed E18 out of time. In order to further support the development, I think it looks very promising if several of the parcels between the Øygard valley and the Animal Park are developed on the basis of a OPS organisation. A narrow four-field road must be chosen to build for the future. Daytime traffic is already 35 pst today. higher than normal traffic and say a lot about the need. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Transport for seeing and listening to a part of the country that is completely dependent on a better infrastructure. But I ask you to listen even better after, because Aust-Agder needs even more money than it's provided for in the national transport plan. We expect concrete follow-up in the annual budgets so that we can get on with the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e683	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e686	It appears to the Progress Party that it is very incomprehensible that the political majority in Norway is leading and will continue to pursue a ‘governance policy’ for road construction here to land, when Norway is today one of the world’s richest countries, while the need for a better road is very evident in many countries. Perhaps more than in any other country, we need a time-consuming and efficient road network in Norway, to connect our long-term country for the benefit of both local, regional, regional and not least business. However, Norway is in fact a slowdown in road construction, and efforts to upgrade the road network should therefore be much more prioritised in Norway than the majority put forward in the national transport plan. On behalf of the whole of South Africa, I would like to stress that the standard of E18 in South Africa has been so poor for a long time that significant increases in state resources should have been granted to a much faster and urgent extension of a better tribal road on South Africa, without the need to set up two new toll stations on E18 only in the East-Agder states. The layout of these toll stations is seen as incomprehensible to most people in Agder, when one sees how Norwegian drivers are already charged with all kinds of car-related charges. For everyone knows that financially, the oil nation of Norway, which now has foreign assets of NOK 586 billion, should have more than enough capital to finance the development of a four-field motorway from Oslo to Kristiansand without having to milk the motorists in the Agder counties with these toll stations, for which all parties except the Progress Party are now in favour. The progress party is in favour of expanding the E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand as a four-field motorway in the National Transport Plan period, but without going in for the type of toll stations it is now added to. As a southerner, I have to say that I am disappointed by the government's lack of willingness to invest more government funds on a better tribal road on the South. The most important thing for the Government seems to be to collect new taxes from the drivers, without returning roadside charges. This just doesn't rhyme. The lack of understanding of the political majority in order to see the importance of an efficient road network in this country surprises me, to say the least, when we see how much need is for better roads, while at the same time the country is financially in a situation where the treasury is more well-filled than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e695	Due to tragic accidents, railway and safety have been in focus in the last year. It is now imperative to be in the forefront in order to avoid accidents. The South Coastal Drangs Valley is perhaps the most risky and attenuated route in this country. Together with the Railway Spokesman of the Workers' Party, Sverre Myrli, I was on tour in the Drangsdalen last autumn, and it was frightening what we saw. The traces of race, and large blocks of stone next to the path body, made an impression. It has also happened that clearing E39, which goes in parallel with the railway, has had to be done by cleanup crews for unraveled rock masses. The last fall, which was quite wet, had to take the track crews out late and early. A number of safety measures have been implemented and there are restrictions on the running speed of all trains, such as Signature or Freight Trains. The maximum permitted speed down the valley is 20 km/h, up 40 km/h. Besides the purely safety-related, which is of course the most important thing, it doesn't seem like a forward-looking NSB to have such speed restrictions either. Then one loses in the competition. We can't continue to play gambling in relation to the safety of the Drangs Valley. At the highest point, it's 80-85 meters down to E39. I almost dare not think about the extent to which an accident may occur. Of course, I had hoped that a new tunnel on the route had initially been within the national transport plan. When this was not the case, the goal was to get the project into the plan and discussed at the Stortinget treatment. When I read in the settings what other parties say about future investments on the railway, I am both amazed and disappointed that it is only the Workers' Party and the Left that mentions the Drangsdalen. However, it is still possible during today's debate for other parties to signal what they think about the route. The other projects mentioned by the Arbeiderpartiet together with the Drangsdalen for assessment at the 2004 rolling stage – Eidangertunnelen, Ringeriksbanen and Grenlandsbanen – are all projects of a completely different magnitude than the Drangsdalen. That's why I think the Drangsdalen project, which is costing 450 million. kr, will force itself forward. There is only a new tunnel that can provide a lasting solution to this distance. After all, it must be more appropriate to ensure the existing routes before a new one is built. The Drangsdalen, which is physically located in the municipality of Lund in Rogaland, is not a local project, but a national project on both security and regularity on the Sørlandsbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e710	It is difficult to predict exactly the development of society from a twenty-year perspective, but what we know is that industries such as fisheries and farming have great potential for development in the future. Many of these industries are located in Northern Norway and especially in Northern Ireland, and we will face many transport challenges in the years to come. It will require both upgrading and deployment of infrastructure. If our values are to be on the market, and if Norway is to make money, we need to have better transport opportunities in the districts where these values are located. E6 above the Korg mountain is planned to start this year, and it is very good. This is an important part of the Helgelandskreis project. It is absolutely necessary that this whole project be fully implemented following the evaluation of the transport plan in 2004. Lofoten's mainland connection, Lofast, is 500 million. kr the first part of the period. We in the Nordic region are very pleased about this. Reason has prevailed. The half-billion-dollar road is lost, and the Lofoten business community has more opportunities for coordination of transport systems, which is a goal for the Workers' Party. Nordland has a railway. I'm going to say that over the last 20 years, this route has been the country's longest siding, which was just lying there. But now the siding is rediscovered, and the Nordlandsbanen gets some improvements. The track has a new trainset and thus has significant driving time potential. Unfortunately, this cannot be recovered because of the infrastructure on the parts of the track. The biggest problem is too long distances between the crossing tracks. This creates capacity problems and results in delays in goods and thus losses for business. In January of this year, Agenda trains – local trains – were deployed on the Bodø-Rognan section, with some departures to Mo in Rana and Lake Mo. This train cannot get optimal route departures due to the missing crossing tracks, which in turn depend on remote control. This great collective offer may have problems becoming profitable without more and better take-offs. In the first part of the transport planning period, the Nordlandsbahn will have remote control and automatic train stop. This shall be installed on the route south of the sea and not where the Agenda train is running. This needs to be reviewed by those responsible. The working party wants to be realistic and believes that a further increase in the transport budget by DKK 5 billion over a ten-year period is a target to be implemented. It is not desirable to have a reprisal of the 1997 surrender of more than DKK 5 billion to the road sector, of which no one in this country has seen a penny. And finally, I strongly advise against the Nordic Road Office being merged with other road offices in the country. This is because of geography and distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e727	As a representative of a ferry company, I will admit that I was shocked when the government presented its proposal on the time-difference of ferry tariffs. In practice, they would punish those who have to travel to and from work at certain times, i.e. an extra tax on work. The shock went over to some sort of amazement when I saw the committee setting and the Labour Party's comments there, where they asked that it: «in the context of more active use of time-differentiated tariffs, particular attention is paid to the fact that this does not necessarily affect users who are dependent on travelling at specified times financially and that the department is looking at ways of countering this, for example through discount systems». My question is, if it's not those who travel at these times, they're going to hit, who is it that they want to hit? This is not a threat, and fortunately this proposal has been rejected by the majority of the population. The government was also negative in its ability to use savings in ferry sub-sidies to sub-finance road links. I'm very happy that the committee opens up so that this can be a possibility. In my home country, this is very topical especially for the Nordøyvegen and Imarsund project. The last project, the Imarsund project and the 680 highway, is also very important in terms of transport to and from the Tjeldbergodden. In this context, I would like to remind you of what a group of committees said about the treatment of the coastal route. Then they said, ‘The Committee would otherwise point to the importance of Rv 680 in order to ensure a good connection with the corridor.’ It's been said here tonight that it doesn't mean how much money you put into the plan. It must come in the annual budgets. The last one is formally correct, but it actually means how much the different parts signal that one will bet on transportation and transportation. It means a part when the Right puts on close to $9 billion in the 10-year period of traffic. It means much when the Right adds 350 million. kr extra on the highways in More and Romesdal, which is actually what the county has asked for in order to meet its priority list, and that means a good deal when the Right enters 40 million. kr extra on the deferred distance between Nordfjord and Volda. Right will follow this up. We're serious about that. When we put this in, it'll be fulfilled, and I hope that the other parts will follow up on what they promise here. Finally, the national port status of Karmsund and Ålesund. A crack in the center here may seem to roll over the possibilities to get this done, and I would strongly urge the Center Party to support these proposals, which will be a lift for Coast Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e746	The needs and needs of the transport sector are almost exhaustive. Nevertheless, there are budgetary limits to which everyone has to deal. I record that there are not as many people who want to repeat the exercises from before by setting up dream lists that have never been followed up. In terms of economic feasibility, not all parts of the country can have exclusive access. As a representative of Akershus, however, I would like to highlight some of the priorities that come to my county and specifically Asker and Bærum. Firstly, I am pleased that public transport is getting high by providing enough funds to complete the double-track Skøyen-Asker. Secondly, I am pleased that an important step is being taken to improve the road on the route Sandvika – Sollihögda by using 550 million. kr on E16 on the route Wøyen–Bjørum, financed by government funds and tolls from Oslopakset 1. Of course, I would have liked more for more projects on this road section now, but I will in any case work to realize these in the period from 2005 when rolling out the transport plan. On the E16 through Bærum, I also believe that further road safety work is needed in addition to the larger projects, because it is a very densely built strike with a high accident load. The third point I am pleased with is the Committee's statement that there will be a quick decision on how to operate the Fornebu area with public transport. It is absolutely necessary for the continuation of plans and development of an important residential and economic area in the western region. There are many projects around the country that have not been given room within the economic framework that have been advisable. The same applies to the E18 on the Oslo–Asker route. I would like to re-examine this matter when rolling out the transport plan in 2004, including looking at different funding options in addition to the state contribution. I noticed that the representative Sanner from the Right wanted to use the election campaign very much for questions about road pricing, where today we are giving permission to introduce the various places around the country. Here is my call to Sanner that he does not need to rush, in the sense that for Oslo and Akershus it will not be relevant until the toll has been closed in 2007. Everyone could have wanted more, but I am satisfied with the efforts in Oslo and Akershus and the central population areas that the treatment of the transport plan here today represents, with the support of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e761	National transport plan is a document that many in this country have had great expectations, including my counties Sogn and Fjordane. Everyone wants the right economic framework, because everyone has projects that should have our solutions fast, for the benefit of people and business. I am equally fully satisfied with the increase that the Labour Party has achieved in my county, not least because one has taken on four challenges in the road sector, which is of the highest vital value for Sogn and Fjordane. Rehabilitation of the road through the Laerdal valley in relation to the traffic growth generated by the new Laerdal tunnel is mentioned and given an opening for repair during the planning period between Borlaug and Steinklepp. In addition, we have also received funds to repair the Stigedalen, while waiting for the future road network between Nordfjordeid and Volda, Kvivsvegen. Another road link that has primarily been poorly handled by both state and county authorities is the Dalsfjord link. I am pleased that there is a large deal in the Committee that the link should be prioritised by Sogn and Fjordane County, and that the Labour Party and Right have pointed out that it may be possible to prioritize this due to other savings both in the ferry and other municipal cooperation between the municipalities in question. This is also pointed out by the spokesmen in the municipalities of Askvoll, Fjaler and Hyllestad by letter to the committee, and the work is already under way. I have no doubt that the bridge over Dalsfjord will produce effects in reduced travel time, reduced transport costs, growth in value creation and a better environment for all who live in this region. My county is one of the states that has really taken on responsibility for implementing a large road project and ferry service because we ourselves have taken on high toll rates. One of these is Rv 5 Springland–Sogndal, with large business expenses. It's not about tolls of 20 kroner, it's about 145 kroner for the smallest cars. For example, for the big fish business in Florø, they have tolls on the road Naustdal, Fjærland and the ferry section Mannheller–Fodnes. This means that they only have tolls and ferries that cannot be compared to other road sections in the country. I am therefore very pleased with the plural comment of the Workers' Party, which opens up that central authorities have to look at the toll projects that seem to have the highest and most impractical costs for road users. In retrospect, after this project was built, the administrative authorities have in place a municipal regulation between Balestrand and Sogndal, so that today Fjärland belongs to Sogndal. With the high toll rates in Fjærland, it helps to divide the municipality into two, all of which means that there is no social contact in all areas. I would also like to associate a few words with the fixes that I see that I have to come to the future slots to ensure safety. I would particularly like to mention Sogndal Airport, which with few means could increase security and close to 100 pst. regularity. I would like the Minister of Transport and the Department to look forward to lending funds to this remedy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e774	The Stavanger area is one of the most pressing areas in the country. Strong coordination of land and transport planning is therefore required. Therefore, municipalities and county councils have merged on a higher use of land within existing densely populated areas, especially in the Stavanger-Sandnes urban band. Such a coordinated approach requires effective and good collective provision. Therefore, it is very gratifying that a large majority of the vote goes in to shift the development of the double track between Stavanger and Sandnes to the first part of the planning period. The track has been a success, but now the capacity is blown up. When, in the years to come, a further expansion along this path, it is important that the collective offer is in place, so that from the beginning of each family plans its everyday life. Transport investment has considerable socio-economic benefits, but investment can also result in direct reductions in expenditure, for example. to more expensive transport solutions. Until now, it has been impossible to see this in context, and there are certainly many subtle reasons for this, but it must be obvious that for the state it would be beneficial to remove ferry subsidies that will exist in the incalculable future and invest in road projects. Therefore, the Right is pleased that we have now got a unanimous committee with us to ask the Government to come back with different models for how we can thus realize more transportation projects. But it's not just in the form of a ferry subsidy the state can save money. Another example mentioned is community mergers. New transport projects are obviously important in order to obtain a more rational public service offer. The Stortinget also treats today the T-connection between Karmøy and Kastamvegen. This is an important project to ensure a good connection between the high population areas in Haugaland. Today’s connection does not have sufficient capacity and its expansion would have dramatic consequences for all those living along today’s main trajectory. When the Right can go in for this toll package, it is because the inhabitants of Karmøy have helped to finance the development of the E39 between Rennesøy and Bokn. It has always been a prerequisite that the T-connection should be part of this expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e788	The need to strengthen the transport sector is urgent, and the commitment to addressing transport issues confirms the importance of this in all parts of the country. There is a great debate and a great deal of commitment from both political authorities and ordinary people. The Christian People's Party wants to focus on the collective offer. We're lifting up the railway in particular, and I feel the need to make it clear to the Stortinget that Telemark is actually the only state that has a railway project at the top of its priority list in terms of transport. It is a coherent county council that has decided that the Eidanger Tunnel should be the first priority. This is an environmentally friendly project, it is a collective effort that will improve the link between Grenland and Oslo, a region of 100,000 people – justified – who for many years have feared that they have been hooked on in the context of transport. I would therefore hope that in retrospect, when further appropriations for the Eidanger tunnel are going to be in place, we actually see that Telemark must be prioritised for this. I also hope that with a background in it is possible to give a certain premium on road issues. Telemark has been struggling for many years – the Council of State is familiar with it – and I see that it has gradually become apparent to both the Committee, the Department and the Directorate of Roads that we are in fact very, very much behind in the maintenance of the road network in Telemark. We have a long way to go before we get up on the national average. At the same time, I will be allowed to say that I am pleased that the plan has included E134, which is an important east-west connection in the upper parts of Telemark. I hope that it will be able to realize as soon as possible. Let me also say that we have had a debate in this Chamber on the railway link between the Notodden area and Grenland, the so-called Bratsberg railway and the hour train project, and I just want to conclude by saying to the Council of State that I am satisfied with the initiative now taken to bring this section back into operation. It means a lot to both Grenland and Notodden, and I hope that after a long time in the debate on this section of the track we can find a lasting solution, which is of great importance to Telemark. I also want to say that we have a number of other road projects in Telemark, but that our primary need at the moment is to repair the road network we already have. So the call must be that when we are going to raise the necessary means of maintenance, Telemark should get very far on the priority list, which I feel in a way that the plan also takes into account through the comments that have been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e803	In the view of the Left, there are many important fundamental steps in the right direction in the position of the National Transport Plan Committee, but this is too small. It is alarming that one will not put greater pressure on innovation to finance important coastal and district transport projects. While frustration is spreading in relocation municipalities and a forward-looking business life is screaming for labour and helping to provide better infrastructure, the majority will send the proposal back to the Government and ask for more detailed discussion and assessment. Now the Storting must show determination. The fact that the Left's clear proposal that saved grants for ferry operations could be used in the financing of the holiday relief project does not receive a majority but that the matter should be brought back to the Ministry in order to return to Stortinget later is simply alarming. This is how it has now been done. 10 years. This has been a unique wish from Coast Norway for years, and it can provide relief to many projects without increased costs for the state. This applies, for example: project in my county, like Imarsundet and Nordøyvegen. Coast Norway needs an offensive and innovative transport policy, not least in view of the value creation of aquaculture and marine industries. Why is there not determination enough in this Chamber to give Karmsund and Ålesund status as national ports here and now? Once again, one should come back to the question on a later occasion. We are talking about Norway's largest and most important fishing port, Ålesund – one third of fishing exports in Norway go over Ålesund – Norway's fourth largest export port in total, located in an area with high growth potential in the industry designated as the bearer of the future spring, and so do not have the capacity of a majority here and now to decide the status of the national port of Ålesund. It's incomprehensible. The fact that the Workers' Party is failing is one thing, but that the Centre Party does not join and thus gives a majority, is alarming. For the Left, it is also important to set aside a separate pot for racial protection, in order to give a signal to citizens and schoolchildren who are currently being closed down due to racial hazards, where temporary ferry services are being set up, that this is important to do something about. There is a lot of good here, but lack of decision-making in some parts of the party is a bad thing. Even in the case of attempts at OPS project, the bet is too narrow. In order to obtain the best and widest experience, a test must be carried out on several different types of projects, delimited and easily measurable in effect. Such a project is the Atlantic Tunnel. But no, even for the majority, this – even at no cost to the state – is a current project. It's too small for a time that requires action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e818	Let me first express a great pleasure at the fact that the Committee's position contains so many positive wordings to change the traditional thinking about port in Oslo that there is reason for everyone who has fought for this, to take it to heart. Here it is now open to regional thinking, and so that some of the country's main urban development areas are not wasted as space for empty containers. I congratulate the Committee on the setting on this point, although the Left has marked some shades together with SV. With regard to the struggle for the development of Fjordbyen, I also congratulate the Committee for resisting the pressure to undermine the Bjørvika solution. Tolls and municipal contributions have been accepted so far in addition to government money. Now, the challenge – and via the President, I am sending it to the Council of State – is that the Kosmo Council of State really gets the company that's going to manage all the properties, up and down, and quickly, because it's necessary to create local trust that this can be resolved. I am also pleased that the project Mossevejen, as part of Fjordbyen in Oslo, has reached in one way. Unfortunately, it did not reach up as a OPS project, which is the Right, the Progress Party and the Left in Minority. But as far as I've noticed in all the comments related to what I think is a necessity, namely, road charging in Oslo, Mossevegen is mentioned as a central project. It is mentioned by the Workers' Party and SV. That is as far as I can see mentioned by the Progress Party. It's mentioned by the Right. It's mentioned by the Left. It is mentioned by the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. In itself, the fire-fighters who have worked for this project should take on board as a recognition for their own work, because in addition to the OPS solution they have also opened up other alternative solutions. To put it this way: they have almost thought of them as practical Westerners even if they come from the capital – and it is from my mouth a nice and pleasant compliment! As far as public transport is concerned, I would like more in the Committee to have followed the Left on two important points in the Oslo area, namely that the crowns to be put on the bombardment will not only be used for new equipment in connection with the T-banging, but from day one will be used to renew the old worn-out equipment. And I wish that more people would have gone in to add government dollars into renewing the material park on the largest rail transport system in Norway, which carries 70 million passengers a year – and that's almost three times more than the total NSB. But I expect the initiatives that the Left has taken here will lead in the same way that we experienced in Oslo together with the Right and Christian People's Party to get an extraordinary bet on the T-course. Finally, I regret that the entire committee, with the exception of the Left and the SV, opens up the collective fields to play American in Norwegian, that we should almost be allowed to drive a private car with passengers, a system that the Transport Economics Institute, the taxi industry and the Transport Companies National Association have warned against. The case rapporteur, who is from the largest party, comes from a part of the country where there are scarcely any collective fields, so I want him welcome here when the queues are there and the irritation is rising. Then the representative Røtweg and I are going to have a little meeting!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e831	In the setting there are two minority suggestions to give new ports status as national port. The one proposal concerns Ålesund port, the other proposal proposes that both Ålesund port and Karmsund port be given national port status. The national transport plan refers to the Committee's management of St.melding. No 46 for 1996-97, a communication entitled ‘Havner and infrastructure for maritime transport’, reported that there was a need to review port and water legislation. The national transport plan states that this work has started and that a natural part of the statutory audit will be the review of classification and the organisation and governance of ports. I have always seen it as natural that this work was done before a further classification of ports. When I hear the Minister for Fisheries in his speech today and in response to a reply from the representative Jan Sahl, I say that the selection as well. shall assess the classification of ports, will not be completed until far out in the fall, my patience begins to wear out. It will simply say that it can be both new winter and new spring and perhaps even longer before the Stortinget gets sent over the matter of classification of ports. And with the background for the long time that will go before the Stortinget gets sued from the Government, the Center Party will support proposal No. 19 to give Ålesund port and Karmsund port national port status. I understand that my response to a reply from my associate representative Sverre J. Hoddevik does not fall in good soil. I'm a little surprised, because that's not the first time I've answered a question with the corresponding content. Yes, it has actually happened several times, and my answer has been about the same as it was today. Secondly, I have given a description of the result of the budget negotiations for the first two years of this period. I can't see that there's any reason to give other explanations about a budget agreement, when we can black out and see what the result has been. I expect that Mr Hoddevik and I may be able to have several debates in which the exchange of lines will go in a similar direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e847	After such a long debate, you would like to comment. But it's an impression at least I'm left with, and it's a feeling that everything that the other parties, except the Labour Party, have suggested is election fighting, and I want to reject it. Because when the Left has worked with the National Transport Plan, has set our priorities and written our comments, it's actually because we think this is the transport policy we want to pursue. We want to press and prioritise this. I have noticed that a lot of speakers from the Labour Party have been involved in some projects that the other parties have also joined in and have given priority, so it is possible that we can have good cooperation in the long term. So there's two things I'm busy with. The one thing is security, and I want to focus on the security along our coast. Sigrun Eng had many good moments of coordination and cooperation between all the different actors on coastal safety. It's a work that's been started, and I see the Labour Party going to do, and it's going to give them the full support of the Left. It is an incredibly important work. Today, five departments are involved in the issue of coastal security. It pulverizes the responsibilities a little, and there's a build of sharp shots between the different actors – and right between these actors there shouldn't be any sharp shots. And we now see the great disaster that has happened outside of Haugesund, where «Green Ålesund» today broke in two. It's an environmental disaster. But due to lack of and unclear responsibilities, it takes a little longer to clean up than it should. So we're going to follow what the Labour Party does, and then we're going to give them our support. We may not support everything, but at least we should consider the measures they propose. We also have a note with the Right and the Advance Party that goes on it with security. And perhaps one day, all transport sectors should be taken under one heading and assessed the security, the security of transport. There are different background experiences, they have different tools they work with, but this should be possible to coordinate. And then there's one thing that not so many people have been in, and it's going on for everyone. I am pleased that a joint committee now says that one should be able to impose requirements on the transport companies, to premium those who have made good arrangements for the disabled, and that it also gives a signal to the Government that one should consider concession requirements for the transport companies to be good prospects. Finally, I want to say something about research and development, because I think it is very important that a research and development project across different departments to see if a person can make the emergence of all public buildings better and when it comes to transport. I am very happy that the Government has started a work to see how to facilitate transport, because there is also an important work to do, and there is a lot to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e860	I noticed that the representative, Bjørnstad, is very pleased with the investment in Akershus, and it is alarming. He should take a trip out and talk to those who experience queues and cork and chaos every day on the way to and from work. Now the politicians have to take the floor, enough is enough, is just one of the comments from the people of Akershus in connection with the majority's proposal to impose a drug duty. And the reactions are understandable. It does not come until 2007, said the representative, Bjørnstad. But it's coming. That's why it's important to protest in the future as well. For those who depend on using the car during the rush, this fee will mean an additional cost at the top of all the others. The Institute of Transport has calculated that if road pricing is to be effective, the price level must be approximately. 40 kroner each time you pass the bombing. It's going to be $80 more every day. It doesn't have much imagination to see what problems this will create, among other things. for young children’s parents who depend on the car to bring and bring children to and from kindergarten and school, so that they get to work in time. Very many people have no opportunity to influence their own working hours. Most jobs between 7 and 16, and all of these are now going to be hit. Whether it gets free or cheaper to cross the city border at other times of the day, it doesn't help. No, the rush rate will not help them with the already stressed everyday life and the slumped wallet, and in particular it will affect people living in Akershus. The right is clearly opposed to this charge because it will hit extremely unsocially. It will not solve the problems of poor road capacity, it will not solve insufficient collective provision, it will not act as a traffic regulator and will not solve the problems of the existing road network or public transport. Today trains in the rush hour are already more than overcrowded, and in particular the Oslo-Ski and Oslo-Asker routes are very difficult. People are standing like herring in barrels, and security is simply irresponsible. If there were an accident, it could be disastrous. For the inhabitants of Akershus, the majority's decision to postpone the construction of the double track between Oslo and Ski is very dramatic. That means that the population can't look forward to any easier everyday life. Right wants to speed up the completion of double tracks between Oslo and Asker and Oslo and Ski by making use of the possibility of tendering and organisation as a OPS project. I find with great disappointment that the majority is not willing to contribute to such a faster completion. So queues, corks and chaos on the road and rail will long be the reality of the people in Akershus because of the majority's lack of will and understanding of the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e873	First two quick clarifications. To the representative Rasmussen: that is what is called an incurrency in the English language, when we have not submitted a comment on the Drangsdalen. We actually had that in 1997 when we dealt with the railway plan. It should be right now as well. I know about a couple more things that should have stood there, but I'm not going to mention this since no one else has figured it out. So the representative, Korsberg, who came, asked and left. He wondered why no one else here was concerned about the internal roads of Senja. If he had read the setting, he would have seen that all the parties, except the Advance Party, respect that other national highways are something that the states themselves should decide. We have to give the framework, and then the counties have to give priority. The fact that the Progress Party does not respect that division of labour is because they have to campaign for all these road projects. We have different decision-making levels, and we have to respect that. So to the national port again. Yes, I was a little clumsy in my line instead, but it was very serious. Because I'm a little concerned about what criteria it takes to become a national port, and what that means for that port. I have looked at the tables of items of goods, wet bulbs, dry bulbs, containers, etc., and I wonder if it is the amount of goods that is essential. It may be too late to make suggestions, but Borg is very well placed to become a national port – and Moss. In this respect, Halden is not so far away, or maybe even Målø or Florø, in relation to, for example, Karmsund. There may be other criteria, but I have not heard them. I think it's like this: now we're adopting some national ports, we're taking it and it. Bingo! In fact, criteria have not been taken into account. That's why I have patience until you get the criteria, so you know what you're looking for when you decide on a national port. So I have to vote against these proposals, no matter what the Labour Party is going to do. – I assume they do, too. For aviation: I have not been given an explanation as to why it would be cheaper to fly in the north, either by the representative Sahl or by the Council of State. I want to ask you, what's that saying? How is that going to happen? And how much? But there will be no answer. So to this thing with OPS. In fact, you think you're conjuring up money. What you would like to do by implementing a number of OPS projects is to bind future government budgets, so that the size has less to choose from. This means that in the case of the OPS projects, they are contractual and the Storting must enter with funds. This means that if the appropriations are cut, the projects that are not OPS, which must then take the whole cut, will be affected. The more OPS projects, the worse for those projects that are not. They're being stopped or they're getting a bad drive. The projects with OPS funding will, of course, be well progressed. I don't know if it's wise to tie up future government budgets for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e888	The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether 'bingo' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e891	When you're so unparliamentary that you play bingo, I just had to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e896	The Committee points to the uncertain economic foundation of the Aviation Agency’s investments at aerodromes. It is therefore important that the remuneration requirement for the Aviation Agency should be proportionate to the tasks assigned to it and to the financial situation of the Aviation Agency. The particularly high level of charges prevailing in Norwegian aviation has a reduction in the impact on people’s travel activities. This is again affecting the revenue base of the Aviation Agency. The high level of charges bites the Air Administration and passengers in the tail, and therefore, aviation, which is so important for Norwegian society, is exposed to a threat of a negative nature and potential passengers are also. Several speakers have pointed out that maritime transport is not well enough integrated into the national transport plan, which is a weakness. Maritime transport has a very central place in Norwegian value creation and in Norwegian society. The size has met this challenge by providing the maritime infrastructure to the Transport Committee with a view to improving the integrity, transparency and coordination of all transport matters. However, the Government administers the task distribution differently. The infrastructure of shipping is governed by the Ministry of Fisheries. The government is sovereign in the way it manages its business. Well, there's a reputation and respect. Societal developments continue, regardless of this, and it is to facilitate public activities in relation to development. From this point of view, it would be right for the Government to consider what is an optimal administration of the transport sectors as a whole, among other things. consider whether it may be appropriate to place all matters relating to transport within a single department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e910	The representative Sverre Myrli's contribution earlier today is the premise of my three-minute post. He felt clearly drawn on the feet of my statements about the lack of commitment to the districts in the proposal of the National Transport Plan from the government of Stoltenberg. He pointed out that the Christian People’s Party largely followed the Government and therefore spoke against better knowledge. To that I would say: all our extra funds – DKK 5.8 billion – go mainly to the districts. It's correcting something. But the most important thing is our strong emphasis in remarks about considerably more user funding in key strokes to release funds to the districts. It is alarming, as the Minister for Transport said, that no binding decision has yet been taken in Oslo and Akershus on 2 kroner in increase – I repeat: 2 kroner in increase – in the toll, not 40-50 kroner, as the representative Jan Tore Sanner threw out, but an increase of 2 kroner. It limits itself to the unreal in relation to the level of toll prices in the districts. If there is no local connection to significantly more user payment in Oslo and Akershus, the Christian People's Party's support for the government's arrangement will fall away. To the Minister for Fisheries: I have not stated that the Labour Party has a low profile in terms of maritime transport. On the contrary, I agree with the representative of Myrvoll and can offer praise. But I have pointed out what I believe a majority in the Committee agrees, namely that this has not been sufficiently implemented in the national transport plan. It was this fact that I challenged the Minister for Fisheries in my reply earlier this evening. Here we have a common job to do to get this stronger on the next roll. Then we in the Christian People's Party, in line with Jorunn Ringstad's justification, will vote in favour of proposal No. Nineteen in the position. So to Ivar Kristiansen, my good colleague on the northern bench: we have a lot to enjoy in terms of appropriations for our county, proposed in the national transport plan. But with regard to this ping-pong throw about who is most credible, I will at least state that in this plan it is the Right and Advance Party that presents the longest project lists. And I'm going to promise that we'll follow if the Right, if they get in position, find funds for all of their projects. To the representative, Inge Myrvoll, I would like to say that I heard the Council of State reply that he has registered that the prices for the regional grid must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e925	A long debate goes to the end, but there may be reason to take up a few things. The representative, Inge Myrvoll, was involved in this with national roads, and it is important to stress that several representatives in the hall have asked for it. So there's a distribution in this system. The population takes care of the tribal roads in this country and allocates money to the county municipalities, which then prioritize the highways. There might be a lot of opinions about that system, but that's what we've chosen. That system is also good reason to follow. There have been situations in which the Stortinge has granted a start-up sum to the national road project — and then there are a large number of unfinished projects around the country. I believe that the cleanliness we now have in this area is beneficial to Norwegian transport. Therefore, a joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has refused to comment on national road projects in the suspension. It's actually tried to last all these four years. There have been some loops, but in principle you have. Then the representative Nybakk tried to suggest that there might be some difference in attitude between the big group to the Right and Oslo Right when it came to Oslo port. It's not. There is full agreement as to what may lie there, so that at least it is clarified. If you look at the totality, you'll see that what's new in the national transport plan is that it's stronger than ever pointed out that competitive outsourcing is going to be more of a part of this country. And – now I see that Jorunn Ringstad has unfortunately gone – that made the Senter party a mistake: they are also involved in these 300 million. kr related to the outsourcing of competition, so that there is already a majority in this Chamber to walk along that road. The second is that there is a majority for several OPS projects. I also think it should be possible to get to the Mosseveg project. If also the Christian People's Party joins in on a priority, we're going to get it in place. In the case of the holiday relief project, there is also a solid majority in favour of using those funds there, including for a system conversion. There is also a system change of quality contracts in the transport sector related to public transport. It'll be exciting to see what it'll lead to. I think it can provide a better collective offer in this country. Then the representative was Sahl in on something the representative Jan Tore Sanner said. That's where I think the representative Sahl has misunderstood. What Jan Tore Sanner referred to was the road pricing system as such. And then he probably referred to a correct sum. The working party has demonstrated in the hall that there will be a lot of rush time after that. So they're going in for road pricing, and they've signalled the rush rate on ferries. Erik Dalheim, who is not to be re-elected to Stortinget, left the cat out of the bag and said that it might be such a principle that you could choose. I know that we will also see it in public transport if not for that long. So finally, never before have so many people talked about so many transportation projects, but granted so little.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e948	It's quite at the bottom of the debate, and it's clear that you've registered a lot of nice greetings at home. Also my post will be a greeting home, but at the same time it is a heart attack. It concerns proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party, which we're probably standing alone about, to stop project E6 through Steinkjer City. I have not yet understood in any way that adding E6 through Steinkjer is a reasonable solution, and why this is an absolute demand from the majority, both in Steinkjer and here in the hall. I put a big question mark on who and what it is that makes it imperative to continue or install a new E6 through Steinkjer. What is it that suggests that this is a sensible solution in Steinkjer, but which elsewhere is considered to be very unreasonable because of the traffic image, because of pollution, because of the chances of disasters, and let the one we were getting at Lillestrøm? I find it very timely to ask questions about whether there are motives other than the sensible use of means of transport or reasonable trajectory that make one in Steinkjer go in the opposite direction anywhere else. I am absolutely convinced that within a 20-year perspective will be exactly the same as today's wanting this trajectory, coming back with the wish of a choice outside the city. So the drivers, both in Steinkjer and the majority here in the hall, have built up both the local road network in Steinkjer Municipality and in Steinkjer City. Then the same politicians, the majority in this room and in Steinkjer, have spent several hundred million, probably one billion in the long term, laying a European road through the city of Steinkjer – in the middle of the urban areas, in the middle of the school districts. The greatest heartache is in relation to those who talk best about the environment – the Socialist Left and Left, who in every context are so concerned with preventing pollution, among other things. from road traffic. So these parties are now taking part in a Europe-wide route through school areas, children’s playgrounds – in the middle of urban areas. I don't find a reasonable answer to why the majority does what they do. I would like to end by quoting one of the inhabitants of Steinkjer Municipality, who today says: Can the decisions be coloured by the fact that the members of the trading community, politicians and bureaucrats are taken in the closed rooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e961	The coastal route is important for the Norwegian export industry. Not least fishing and aquaculture must have a better way to the south if the maritime adventure is to become the new big currency income when the oil adventure ends, maybe in 100 years or so. It is important for both the environment, the economy and quality to invest in the road that must be the transport corridor for fish to the continent outside Oslo. Fortunately, the entire committee has joined the vision that all transport is not going through Oslo, and then I think it sounds like reason. It's good and environmentally friendly to bet on trains, and therefore the Christian People's Party does it. But we're not going to forget that most corner stone companies inside a fjord arm or out on an island will always be dependent on car combinations. The Western industry certainly does not require much. They do not ask for autostrada, even if they are the mainstay of the Norwegian economy, and central strokes could not be made if they did not receive annual transfers from Coast Norway. What they're asking for is yellow stripe in the way, so that trailers don't have to back off when they meet the opposite traffic. The national transport plan, if correctly summed up, has been taken into account. $4 billion to improve the coastal route during the period. It's barely enough, but of course it's a lot of money. Each budget will be a condition where one can increase the road investment that is the basis for getting income and wealth for our grandchildren as well. For the coastal tribe path, there is also much to say that ferries subsidiars can be added to the bridge project. It's reason that finally wins when we get this in place. As a sotrastril, I am very pleased that the Ringweg West now appears to be secure. The road from Bergen west to Flesland is a cork for both business and air passengers. I would also like to stress that the Christian People's Party will also improve the efficiency of operation and maintenance in the transport sector by increasing the use of competitive outsourcing and supply. For self-employed persons who have invested in plant machinery, this is good news. They will no longer see that the Road Service takes work that could make it more reasonable for the private sector. It's fair with equal competition, it's a principle. It will provide more money for road development and infrastructure, and it needs our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e978	The Progress Party has proposed to increase the state planning framework to the counties by a total of 8 380 million. kr in total during the planning period in relation to the Government’s proposals. All parties other than the Advance Party have a positive view of toll financing. All lots other than the Advance Party are for the drivers, or indeed the inhabitants, to pay more to the State than any other toll charge. Therefore, in order to make the most of the charging needs of other batches, the Progress Party will provide the counties with increased net State allocations of a total of 6 230 million. Total during the period, which will result in some projects being carried out, and that the driving lists will be strengthened by reducing toll financing. Of these appropriations, an increase of 950 million has been proposed to the Westfold counties. kr in addition to what the Government has proposed, and the reduction of toll financing by 700 million. kr. When it comes to imposing toll charges, this could help to ensure that some projects in Westfold can be carried out. This applies, inter alia, to: the so-called Tønsberg package, which will be of great importance in resolving the traffic problems in Tønsberg and its surroundings. Here, the state will contribute insignificant 5pst., while the inhabitants on top of all other taxes will have to contribute the rest, in reality almost everything. This kind of funding is often called splinter layers, the strangest form of splinter layers I've seen, when one party actually pays everything. The proposals of the Progress Party for increased appropriations could also lead to the consolidation of the construction of the Torstrand Tunnel in Larvik in order to lead Rv 303 outside the busiest parts of the city; a project of the Westfold Road Manager is very concerned. Rv 303 creates major environmental problems in Larvik, where it is a mixture of school roads, high passenger car traffic and heavy transport, among others. a significant stone industry through narrow streets built for horses and cattle in the oldest parts of Larvik. The proposal of the Progress Party for increased allocations to Westfold is a significant contribution to reducing the pain limit of citizens on what to charge in terms of fees and a significant contribution to reducing environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e991	Every year, according to the views of the Progress Party, too little of the road mass that Norway has and needs has been reinvested and maintained. Among the county municipalities that have lost the most is perhaps Hedmark, which is very strange when you look at this county. It is bordering on Sweden and thus has a large volume of traffic going through the county, especially in the business sector. It's a large group of people, where you depend on a car or public transport to get to work or do another errand. It was claimed that Hedmark needs approx. 30 pst. more to their country roads in order to reach a national average. And within Hedmark, Solør, Odalen and Hedemark come out the worst. While some states have solid cover on all their county roads, for Hedmark it will take approx. 100 years before the county gets solid cover on all roads at the pace that has been maintained in recent years. Maybe one thing has to do differently in the road sector, so that the number of levels is reduced, today both state, state, municipality and private. There must be a lot to save both economically and not least by working rationally and efficiently. This will be exciting with the project where private operators will operate national and county roads in Åsnes and Våler municipalities. This is a five-year project with a total of between 50 and 100 million. kr annually. As mentioned earlier, the Progress Party has also been good at increasing the road budget this time. We have also helped to try to provide road sections, for example. in Hedmark, an extended increase. In order for a county or district to be habitable and have a living business, priority must be given to this. Of several projects, I am pleased that Rv 2 Riksgren/Magnor–Klöfta has been given priority. This is a road map in which the majority of the Committee, including the Advance Party, underlines the need for work to be undertaken as soon as possible. Here there is a lot of traffic east-west, and especially heavy traffic, and there is one of the main years of traffic between Norway and Sweden. The propulsion part wants this section to be constructed with the minimum motorway standard B. In addition, parts of the external budget may be used on this route. I would also like to mention that Route 15 Rv 2 Kongswinger – Elverum has large distances, but unsatisfactory standard and a lot of edge construction. I can also mention Rv 3 Kolomoen–Ulsberg, which is also an important transport year north-south and a relief for freight traffic along the E6. There's a lot missing here, and we want to set it up on a much higher standard, both for accessibility and for reducing traffic accidents. Unfortunately, I could continue to address many needs for increasing funds for this county, which I believe and hope will be improved as the transport sector is taken more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1008	I would like to focus on the ‘national tourist roads’ approach. In the Storing Communication, concrete projects are mentioned in four counties from 2002 to 2005. There are selected routes to give, as it is called, an experienced and varied journey of great nature and cultural values. It's about an economic splinter layer between the state and the municipalities involved to provide several tourists with rest spaces and photo experience points. A large number refer to the ministry's approach and point to the value of securing the necessary resources and an organisation that takes care of local involvement and the further development of a good standard of development and transport. This note supports the Council of State's commitment to securing the necessary resources for the priority projects for the first period, and it is a clear signal to follow up on the local priority lines. At the bottom of the debate, I would like to say the following: the Central Party took the initiative of government for a report that shows a massive centralisation of state investment over ten years. National transport plan reinforces these developments as a starting point. The centre took the fall in serious messages about the availability of capacity in the construction sector, and we are pleased that in the budget agreement there were several for 400 million. D to the transport sector in 2001 in addition to the Government's proposal. And we think there's room for 900 million. kr per. years in increasing frames over the next four years. There are today very many local requests. One of the things that is really important to underline is the question of evaluating the Drangs Valley on the South Coast, this route where trains on a very racially dangerous area have to run in 20 km/h the one road and 40 km/h the other road. The way to get space for several local projects outside the most central eastern region now, whether it relates to rail or to road, is to be included in the annual budgets for enhanced frameworks. It is also to address the serious debt situation in the local government sector when it comes to treatment for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1021	A debate on the national transport plan should be marked by the large lines and have principles more than individual projects in mind. But as in any transport debate there are also many postcards sent home here. Someone might blame me for the same thing, but I want to talk first and foremost about railway policy, and can assure you that in my home area, in my municipality, there isn't a meter with a railway line. If we are to meet tomorrow with a forward-looking transport policy, we must invest more on the railway, but it must be a railway that is safer, more functional and more service-conscious than today's offer. The alternative, if we don't bet on the railways on the major major transport routes, is a constant demand for road extensions, heavy wear and pollution, as well as an increasing accident statistics. Also in relation to future international transport policy, it seems to be forward-looking to be investing in rail and a flexible freight transport between car and rail, among other things. with improved container solutions. In the case of goods by road between Trondheim and Oslo, about 90 pst. of which on Rv 3, a road which offers many places for high speed, but which is narrow and on several routes has many curves, while there is large local traffic. This, together with a lot of heavy transport, means that this Rv 3 has also been called the ‘Blood Road’. So something has to be done with the road. However, if a small amount of heavy goods transport on Rv 3 is to be developed, the railway must develop and provide an improved transport offer for the freight transport between Mid-Norway and South Norway. There are a lot of goods that should be able to travel by rail over this route, but then the railway has to develop and show the willingness to meet this challenge. The runway needs to be developed with improved safety, better rail access and, inter alia, safer transitions, so that the transport offer can become more time-consuming. The trajectory has an altitude difference of about 400 m less than the Dovrebahn. This makes the Rørosbanen very suitable as a freight forwarder. The Central Party has spent NOK 2 billion more on railway operations in its national transport plan than the Government has proposed. We have said that these means should be used for the refurbishment and repair of, among other things. Rørosbanen. With the upgrading of the Rørosbahn, one would have an alternative to the already loaded Dovrebahn. And it has to be a goal in the long run to electrify the pipeline, so that the same vehicle can be used on both paths. With such a realization has a real double-track railway between Støren and Hamar, and then both for freight and passenger traffic. And then it's my wish that in the near future you focus as much on double tracks on the entire Hamar-Oslo route as you do on some other central paths in today's debate. This will also relieve the pressure on E6 on the same distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1036	In this article, I want to address a situation that has caused considerable concern in several places in the country, and it is about the situation of the Aviation Agency. In recent times, there have been media signals that the Swedish Aviation Agency is considering decommissioning regional airports. A look-up in the Evening Post in January, for example, revealed that: that there may be a total of ten airports and that the reason is to be found in poor economic conditions. I assume that it is unnecessary to clarify the significance of regional airports for their respective regions. It goes without saying that the person who is going to invest in new jobs in a region that may lose its airport will be insecure and detained. Predictability and long-termity are important in relation to all industrial activities, not to say crucial to positive development. There are already too many uncertain factors in this area. In addition to creating uncertainty about the future presence of important infrastructure, the situation obviously makes the situation even worse. A situation where questions are constantly raised about whether such an important infrastructure measure as an aerodrome should be maintained cannot be met by District Norway. I have noticed that the head of board of the Aviation Agency claims that the return requirements have increased in recent years, and that the institution is thus drained for resources. If this is the case, it must either be corrected by increased transfers or the Storting must act as a more professional and more responsible owner in relation to the return claim. We cannot have a situation in which an agency such as the Aviation Agency is to balance its budgets by shutting down the operation of aerodromes. Against this background, I am pleased that the bulk of the population rejects the idea of transforming the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited company, which would only make the situation even worse. I would also like to point out that the Workers' Party and SV strongly emphasise that the State must have a primary responsibility for the Aviation Agency as well, and that this should be the starting point for the choice of the form of organisation. Furthermore, the two parties stress that political governance in the aviation sector is an important regional policy instrument. The fact that the centre parties do not support these comments is difficult to understand. I hope for the longest time that they do not disagree with the wording, because this should be a majority remark. That the Workers' Party is proposing to increase the schedule by 500 million. kr. The eartag for grants to regional airports, and the fact that SV supports this, shows at least that these two parties take this relationship seriously. I assume that increased appropriations are going to ensure the operation of the airports and not to reduce ticket prices. Reduced ticket prices are an important matter, but it has to be achieved in another way. Finally, I would like to say how pleased I am that a unanimous committee says about the Helgelands Cross. This is a strong signal that both the Directorate of Road and the head of road in Northern Ireland must immediately add the broad side to the further planning work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1055	I don't dare say we're at the bottom of the debate, because that's what speakers have been saying for two hours. But it is my Akershus colleagues from the Right who have made me take the floor. Both Jan Tore Sanner and Sonja Irene Sjøli have swung heavily today and obviously started the election campaign. I have nothing against it; I love running a campaign. And especially after today's polls, maybe the inaugural meeting is even bigger, so I'm looking forward to election. The discussion about road pricing is to lie until we deal with that question in Odelstinget a little bit longer in time, but it is the discussion about the railway and Sonja Irene Sjøli's statement that the Right will have faster deployment of the double tracks to Ski and Asker that has really led me to take the floor. What remains of the appropriations for these two double tracks in relation to what was provided in the Storing Message amounts to approx. $5.5 billion. In its increase in the frame, the right has added 600 million. kr in increase for railway purposes for the 10-year period. So it's not enough to complete one of these two double tracks. Just what's missing from Skøyen–Asker is 930 million. kr. Then one in the name of propriety should at least have added that amount, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre parties do in the setting. So it's obviously OPS that's the solution to all of the problems, and that's okay. It's possible that a man who manages to get railway projects cheaper with Public Private Cooperation, but it's a good idea to fool people into presenting a message that one who doesn't really need money from the state budgets at all. I have not heard of a single country that has managed to build railways without the state contributing financially. I have never heard of anyone who can spin without wool. It is possible that some synthetic fibre can be mixed up as one should knit, but wool must have a spin, and so is the case when one is going to build a railway: money must be held, and money must also be over the state budget. It might have been unnecessary to take the word if it had been someone who didn't like it so well, who came with such a «Spanish», but when there was such a great person like Sonja Irene Sjøli, I thought I had to say that I didn't like it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1070	I should probably take what I'm going to say now, in my main post, but from here I'm going to be allowed to express my thanks for the thorough and proper work that the committee has done with the National Transport Plan. I've been following this from the sideline and I've seen that there's been a formidable effort, that you've literally been cleaned up by people for months. I am pleased with the broad connection that the Government has made to its arrangement for a balanced investment in transportation. We shall be liberal in relation to such a debate, but it is clear that I have noticed that the debate has had some nuances. There are some who have claimed that the plan has a bias, that a rate is too small in the districts. But it has not prevented the same parties from ending up on the main priorities of the plan. I just want to make it clear that it is of course the committee comments that the Government will base its further work. On a few points I record that we have the majority against us. At the same time, I want to add that there are a number of proposals and leads in the plan. But as I said, on a few points, I note that the majority disagrees with the Government. We can live with that. At the same time, I would like to give the signal that in terms of time-differentiated ferry tariffs, I can say here and now that it is not at the point where we will challenge the Storting in the future. We want to investigate alternative uses of ferry subsidies, we want to try out OPS. If this improves resource use, we can build more. But I would like to stress that OPS is a way of organising development and maintenance. There is no prioritisation methodology. I'm counting on and taking for granted that the Storting wants to take on that priority in the future as well. At least the government will add up. As far as the framework is concerned, it is clear that this debate has shown that the Progress Party can afford everything. There are then two possibilities, either a massive flow of taboos when the annual budgets are to be adopted, or a massive transfer of money from other areas, from health care, from business support, from public services in general. It can create a society with very nice roads, but where we're missing everything, also population – maybe with just some lonely cyclist on these great roads. That's not how the government wants it. We want a development in which transport supports business. That is what is the main message of the plan, and that is what I believe we have received broad support for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1082	The councils are getting fun in the late evening hours. It might be funniest. We don't think there's a "gigantic transmission". We simply think that what the government has done in recent years is such a gigantic down-priority of the Norwegian road network that we have a lag of NOK 9.5 billion. I therefore think it's a little bad that the Council of State can come and say that we will have a huge lift when we want to get this right. Then he has a little hint that we want roads everywhere, and that there might just be a lonely cyclist on these roads. Who created these roads, where it's just a lonely cyclist and maybe one or two cars? Who built FATIMA, where there are only a few cars going in the daytime? Who built the Lærdal Tunnel? Who has been responsible for the gigantic projects on the outskirts where there are no cars? We want to build roads where there are cars and traffic. And we honestly think that $45 billion is not much over a decade. But I find that the Council of State and I deeply disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1093	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-8. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1106	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1113	During the debate, 35 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 7, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Left proposal No. 8, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and Left Proposal No. 9, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, proposals No. 10-14, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 15 and 16, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 17, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 18 and 19, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 20-22, by Mr Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 23, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposals No. 24-34, by Mr Myrvoll, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 35, from May Britt Vihovde on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 35, from the left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a State Cooperation Council for Public Transport in the Oslo Region, where the State, the Municipality of Oslo and the counties of Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold are included.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1165	Proposals Nos. 24-34, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government requests a return to the Revised National Budget in spring 2001 with a proposal for a requirement for the use of particulate traps for new diesel vehicles from 1 January 2002.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to be made on how the current tax regime can be implemented so that new and more environmentally friendly fuels for the transport sector, such as methanol, can be made commercially available both to users of current and future technologies.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘All cities and agglomerations with more than 5000 inhabitants shall plan for a continuous walk and cycle road network. The Road Directorate must be required to speed up its work in cooperation with the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a proposal on how the charging system can be implemented so that it is more expensive to use a car, but cheaper to own it, and where parts of today’s petrol tax are replaced by a system of road pricing in key strokes.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government requests a proposal for an upper rate of SEK 80 for passenger cars and NOK 250 for larger vehicles, with partial debt cancellation of toll companies’ debts so that the recovery period does not change.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the abolition or reduction of the road tax in the context of the Revised National Budget in the spring of 2001’.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the liquidation of investment charges on railway equipment in the context of the Revised National Budget in the spring of 2001’.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government will request the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes allowing the use of revenues from fuel taxes for collective purposes.’;» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to review the E6 Melhus trajectory selection following the Vass Mountain option and to consider the possible location of the freight terminal on Heimdal.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of how increased public purchases of rail passenger transport services could result in increased traffic from road to rail.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in connection with the next tendering period for the purchase of route services on the regional route network to provide a price reduction of 30 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1231	Proposal No. 23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the current regulation to the Road Traffic Act so that minibuses have to have a collective function in order to use the collective fields. This may mean that minibuses for institutions etc. must be able to use the boxes regardless of the number of persons on the bus, whereas individuals with minibus as private car can use the boxes only if there are a minimum of four persons on the vehicle.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1243	Proposals Nos. 20-22, from the Advance Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘1. The majority asks the Government to separate all production of transport services from the production of goods and services by public authorities.2. The government is asking for the modernisation and renewal of current legislation so that a fully market-driven transport market can be established. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Government is asking the Government to reorganise the current Ministry of Transport of a Ministry of Transport responsible for everything in the field of transport by land, water and air, as well as all activities which are a natural part of the transport activity, including port activities. 4th@item: inlistbox The Government is asking for the administrative establishment of a Joint State Transport Directorate based on the merger of the Directorate of Road, Aviation and the Railway Agency.5. The decision asks the Government to reorganise the entrepreneurship and operating departments of the Road Administration to limited liability companies. 6th@item: inlistbox The Storting asks the Government to establish a State Transport Authority responsible for the control of all transport by land. [[road and rail]] Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the E6 project through Steinkjer in Nord-Trøndelag. The government is asking the government to take the people's demand that new E6 be built outside the Steinkjer centre seriously." Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with a financing plan for the construction of deep water/offshorekai at Verdal and Levanger Hafen, in conjunction with the Government’s submission of the 2002 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1288	Proposal No. 18, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to convert the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company.’ The Progress Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1304	Proposal No. 19, from the Right and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that Karmsund port and Ålesund port be given national port status’. Here the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party have announced their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1320	Proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a major communication on public transport. The objective must be to facilitate strong growth in the provision of collective services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1334	Proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, are taken up to vote. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a national bicycle strategy with the aim of making it safer and more attractive to choose a bicycle as a means of emergence’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess changes in traffic rules with a view to making the rules more easily understandable and contributing to increased safety and fewer accidents at bicycles.’ The Socialist Left Party has announced its support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1357	Proposals Nos. 10-14, from the Advancement Party and the Right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘All purchases by the State of maintenance and development services in the transport sector shall, as a general rule, be subject to competition.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for the competitive outsourcing of the national road ferry services.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to open up the free establishment of express buses.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to increase the speed limit on Class A motorways from 90 km/h to 110 km/h.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary arrangements for the railway system’s facilities to be made available also to other train operators under the same conditions as those applicable to the NSB’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1393	Proposal No. Amendment No 9 lapses as a result of the proposal No. 19 adopted. Proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate the possibility of outsourcing the main route network in North Norway and between North Norway and South Norway for public purchases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1410	Proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider moving the appropriations for public transport out of the framework transfers to the counties and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and into the Ministry of Transport’. The Progress Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1426	Proposals Nos. 1-6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the Air Safety Authority and the Railway Authority from the Ministry of Transport to another department.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a joint accident commission for all major accidents in the transport sector and that the Government returns to the Government with alternative solutions in terms of organisation and work.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Road Administration’s production department into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to transform the Production Department of the Railway Agency into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to transform NSB’s goods into a limited liability company. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company.’ The voting boards showed that there were 34 votes in favour and 50 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.04.41]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1466	There are several people here who voted incorrectly. The President proposes that we resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1517	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1540	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it. The vote boards showed that there were 65 votes in favour and 14 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.06.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1549	Here something has happened, there are too few who have given their vote. Then we have to try again, and we'll do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1576	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulations of the Road Traffic Act so that collective fields are opened for cars with a minimum of 3 persons on the vehicle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-15-2.ana.ud924e1639	There is no record.
