ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e31	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal will present a private legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e34	I will, on behalf of Per Sandberg and myself, put forward proposals on the law on amendments to Law 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[Intercommunal companies that compete with commercial operators shall be deemed to have acquisitions as their object]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e51	Ot. pp. No 36 for 2000-2001 refers to the amendment of Law No 28 July 1949. 26 of the State Pension Fund. When a decision was taken to allow the Employment Act to hire labour directly from Aetat to end-users with effect from 1 July 2000, it was taken that this group should also be exempted from membership of the State Pension Fund. In this respect, it was assumed that the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Pension Act could be used. The provision reads as follows: «The pension fund may exempt a worker from membership if he is covered by another occupational pension scheme or there are other specific reasons for doing so.» However, the pension fund only has the right to exempt a worker from membership in cases where the member himself wishes to do so. The employee must therefore be informed in such a case that he can choose to retain his membership of the Pension Fund. Thus, this provision of law does not provide for unconditional exemption from membership of the State Pension Fund, but for the option of being exempted if the State Pension Fund agrees. It is therefore not possible to exempt this group from membership of the State Pension Fund within the current legislation, as foreseen in the examination of the case. It is therefore proposed to introduce an exemption clause in the Pensions Act. The State Pension Fund Act § 5 states that employees employed in the State's service with at least 14 hours of work per person. weeks are members of the Pension Fund. It is assumed that many of the temporary workers will have shorter working hours than this and will therefore not have membership. Both working hours and working hours will lead to many having less than a total of three years' membership of the State Pension Fund, which is required for entitlement to a pension. It could lead to difficult administrative extra work to decide which temporary workers will be eligible for membership of the State Pension Fund. It is considered unreasonable that a large part of the employees in the leasing business should contribute to a pension scheme from which they are most likely not to be paid. Membership would mean they had to pay 2 pst. of its salary in the amount of its members' contributions. In order to exempt the group from membership, it is considered that a clear legal framework should be established. This kind of legislation can also be applied to other groups where there is a need. The legislative proposal opens the way for the regulation to determine which groups are exempted from membership. It is assumed that the legal base should be used to exempt clearly defined groups from membership of the State Pension Fund if specific reasons warrant. The scheme shall not be used to exempt an entire State from membership, as this would be contrary to the law. However, this provision may also be used to exempt specific groups of workers in a specifically integrated activity from membership. It would be useful to use the same procedure here as the one used in the Civil Service Act. The scheme should be based on the same principle as set out in Section 1 paragraph of the Civil Service Act. 3, where it is possible for the King, where there is doubt, to determine to whom the law shall apply, and may also provide that groups of workers shall be wholly or partly exempt from the law when there are specific reasons for doing so. Instead, the king may lay down specific rules. This amendment to the State Pension Fund Act will not immediately have any economic or administrative consequences. A unanimous committee has no other comments and supports the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e78	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 331]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e92	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e101	In Ot.prp. No 34 for 2000-2001 the Government promotes proposals to extend the current prohibition of discrimination in the Work Environment Act § 55 A. This extension means that when employed in the workplace, discrimination against disabled persons is prohibited. Current Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act states that when employed, employers must not ‘discriminate applicants because of race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, homophilic orientation or homophilic form of life’. In the proposal, the Government proposes that disabled persons should also be included in the groups previously mentioned in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act. An overall committee supports the Government's proposals in this area and supports the inclusion of disabled people in line with the groups already mentioned in Section 55A of the Working Environment Act. The Government further proposes, in the same proposition, that sanctions be introduced in order to achieve the intentions of the law to prevent discrimination under Section 55(A) in the event of employment. In this context, the Government therefore proposes to introduce disclosure obligations, shared burden of proof and liability for employers who show irresistible discrimination in employment under Section 55(A). The proposal implies that employers who are charged with discrimination under Section 55(A) must prove their innocence in writing, while at the same time risking legal proceedings and financial liability in the event of breaches of these rules. During the examination of the Committee, the Government's proposal to introduce those sanctions has been endorsed by a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV. This majority believes that the imposition of disclosure obligations, shared burden of proof and liability will make the prohibition of discrimination for all grounds of discrimination under § 55A more effective. On the other hand, the minority, consisting of the Party of Advancement and the Right, has not found itself able to agree to such a type of law enforcement in this area, since, in the view of these parties, this will not necessarily be the best means of fulfilling the legal intentions themselves. For the Progress Party, we clearly agree that no one should be discriminated against on that basis by recruitment. But on the other hand, it seems equally clear that the type of sanctioning provision in question is not a suitable instrument for achieving the legal interest. In my view, these provisions will in no way benefit them at all. It is likely that, on the other hand, the provisions on sanctions would seem quite the opposite, so that the situation for those to be helped would become more difficult. This is a good example of superfluous policy-making that only creates problems for all parties. The recruitment process itself can be more closed. In that case, this is very unfortunate. Job seekers with less formal qualifications become losers. Is that good? What weight can an employer attach to their own assessment of personal suitability rather than formal qualifications? The employer's right to control is drastically reduced. You can no longer hire whomever you like. You can be forced to hire people you don't want. Does it create a better working environment? The legal jungle and the form field against small businesses are further exacerbated, and the law can create contrasts between the Nordics and, for example, the Nordics. immigrants. Moreover, the extent of the alleged discrimination has also been fully investigated. One can therefore question whether there is at all any real need for these sanctions provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e117	The joy of this matter is that everyone now agrees that people with disabilities should in principle not be discriminated against. However, both the Right Party and, in particular, the Advance Party are against all the instruments that can make this effective. They paint a picture of a closed process, of more or less frightened employers who now do not dare to hire whomever they want and who get a very anxious relationship with hiring new people. When I have had meetings with the NHO and with employers, they have been very eager to say that they actually believe that they need this workforce and that they want companies to hire more. So I want to ask the representative Torbjørn Andersen what's the reason why you're now painting all the counter performances and blowing them up big to show how difficult this is. Because it is wrong, as Andersen of the Progress Party says, that one cannot now hire the one that is considered most suitable. The paragraph we are adopting today does not give priority to disabled people, it is about non-discrimination. In some cases, non-discrimination requires the use of instruments in relation to some groups that are initially discriminated against. If one considers that one person is more suitable than another, it is lawful to choose whomever one considers most appropriate, even after the provision adopted today. The only difference would be that you can actually justify it. And what I think is such a reasonable claim that it is difficult for me to understand why the Progress Party cannot participate in such a mild instrument as the legal provision we are adopting today is in fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e126	To the representative of SV: I do not believe that the vast majority of Norwegian employers need this law. In fact, we cannot accuse the vast majority of Norwegian employers of consistently discriminating against this law. And if we assume that a few employers do, it is quite unreasonable to have to introduce an unwanted law that affects the vast majority of companies that have a clean relationship in this area. I think it would be very rude to accuse all employers in this country of engaging in ethnic discrimination. But yet this law creates problems for the thousands of small businesses we have in our country. I believe that this is an entirely unnecessary form of political foresight towards the many thousands of Norwegian employers. So why does the representative from SV say that the Progress Party must paint up all these counter performances? It should only be lacking that one should not paint counter performances when they are most relevant in this context. I don't actually see any need for the sanctions that are now to be introduced into this law, and as I know that SV from the very first moment has been very eager to introduce, but as some other parties, when we last treated this law, did not find to go in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e133	It is sad, but not surprising, that the Progress Party in a case such as this one uses as an argument to go against a more tidy law that changing the work environment law may imply greater contradictions between Norwegian citizens and immigrants. The party of progress profiles itself in a different context as the people with disabilities strongly defenders, and regularly makes proposals to improve living conditions. My question then depends on the relationship between disability and work. Does the representative Torbjørn Andersen see that a general purpose paragraph without sanctions in this area, with the experience that one has, can in fact imply the same state as today, that the disabled in very many contexts still have to fight social security offices, against other public authorities and against some jobs and see it as a giant that they can get allies out of work – with an employer and with others added – and a fighter if they get a job? Could the Progress Party have been so in attendance that they could see that these tools could at least lead to more disabled people in this country being included in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e140	I am absolutely for disabled people to have the best opportunity to get work in Norwegian society. However, I have some doubts about the consequences of the sanctions that we are now going to impose, whether in some cases they can lead to a more closed process of recruitment. And it's actually not beneficial for disabled people, perhaps primarily, nor for all the other groups included in Section 55A. I believe that this law is a form of totally misunderstood actions towards a group of people who need to win respect and respect in society in completely different ways than through something that I see as a form of stigmatizing legislation. I think this law could be a source of conflict between groups of people and between employers and employees. So it's the best papers to get the legal first right to work, and then it's the way to introduce new discrimination. The industry is already drenched by the form, by the prohibitions, by the prohibitions and in so far as taxes and taxes are concerned, and now there are even more serious problems to be dealt with. I believe that an important measure will, of course, be schooling and education in the groups of people who are involved, who have problems getting into the labour market. Another thing I'd like to say when, for example, Immigrants need to be able to expect an increase in self-employment in order to obtain self-employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e145	I think that this case clearly shows that disabled people need other speakers than the Advance Party. It's now very clear that it's just words when you talk about rights to people with disabilities. First, Andersen says that he will warn that those who have the best papers get a job, and then recommend that people with disabilities get more education and skills so that they can get a job. Then he says that it is gross to suspect employers to discriminate against disabled people and to be anxious about them, so to speak, that they are going to close their recruitment processes now. I have to ask who has a discriminatory view of the disabled. Then there are again false claims that this is about a statutory first right to get a job. Not at all! It's totally wrong. This is about non-discrimination. It is a matter of non-discrimination, and it is only a matter of proof that the person who gets the job is the one who is most suitable, and that you have not taken into account that a person, for example. is disabled. This law doesn't hit anyone. So this law doesn't hit anyone, as Andersen from the Progress Party says it does. On the contrary, this is a law that is there to improve the situation of people with disabilities. Now it turns out, as SV has always thought, that the Progress Party only has it in the kangaroo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e152	The President would point out that the last part of the line is hardly a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e155	I have little sense of the last article from SV, which tries as best they can to sword the Advance Party in this context. I'm going to say from this pulpit that if there's any party on the Stortinget that wants the disabled well and rights, it's primarily the Progress Party. I'm not going to have such frights directed at my person and against my party. I said that this law can be discriminatory in itself, as it can also be seen as a ban on employing people with low education and a lack of documented professional qualifications. So here one has created a law to avoid discrimination, but then it once again discriminates against other groups. In fact, what does SV mean by adopting a law that, in itself, discriminates against those who have low formal education, such as those who do not. do not have professional letters and good character books to wave with? I believe it is an unfortunate side effect of the law that we are now adopting, that in order to avoid conflicts and to end up in the courtroom, an employer must first and foremost take into account the purely formal, documented professional qualifications to be on the safe side in order to avoid conflict with Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act. So we're in a situation where those with the best characters make it strong, and I have little sense of that. We want everyone to be able to do the same when it comes to the right to work, but we don't think we need this type of legislation to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e163	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e166	Let me link a few brief comments to the setting. It is mainly aimed at the two theses that have been obtained. One of these relates to the introduction of the obligation to provide information, the sharing of the burden of proof and liability. From the Workers' Party we are a follower of a strong working environment law. It is important to have a work environment law that protects individual workers and jobseekers. It is therefore particularly important to have this Section 55A that we now deal with, and which provides protection against discrimination in the labour market for groups we know of experience being discriminated against. Therefore, it is also important that the Government promote the changes that are reflected in the proposition and the setting and that benefit people with disabilities. We have a good work environment law today, but no matter how good the work environment law is and will be, it unfortunately does not guarantee that discrimination takes place on the labour market. It is precisely in the light of the desire for greater protection for individuals that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to introduce a shared burden of proof in discrimination cases, while at the same time strengthening the provisions on sanctions. At my discretion, we are now introducing a shared burden of proof, an important innovation in labour law. It is important for the individual that, in the light of the changes that are now taking place, he or she should not have the full burden of proof in which he or she considers himself to be being overlooked or indecently discriminated against. This means that we are now introducing a provision that obliges the employer to ensure that discrimination has not taken place. That then also put a rice behind the mirror in the form of compensation in the form of indiscriminate discrimination, I think will have a preventative effect in that way. The other difference relates to the employer's own share in order to facilitate the employment of people with disabilities. An employer currently has an obligation to pay for the organisation of the work of employees who have been permanently employed in the enterprise for more than six months. This is also a question of removing this obligation from the employer. There may be a discussion and an assessment that needs to be considered at a later stage, perhaps in connection with the management of the Sandman Committee's settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e182	In order for this legislative proposal to become a little clearer, the representative of the Government Party has to answer the following very central questions: What is the weight of an employer’s right to put on the less documented qualifications of a jobseeker, such as: self-assessment of personal suitability by the employer? It is not possible that the formal qualifications of a jobseeker should be absolutely essential for employment under Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act. This is a very important element in this context. I hope that the representative Odd Eriksen from the Workers' Party knows what he will answer this question, which I repeat: what emphasis is it allowed to put on an assessment of personal suitability rather than the formally documented qualifications? I hope that question is understood, and that we get a good answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e189	There is in no way any provision in this respect that restricts the right of the employer to assess the suitability of an employee applying for employment. What will limit the right of the employer is that there are obvious issues related to the obvious discrimination of workers seeking a job, which is something they want to prevent by means of this legislative proposal. It surprises me that it is the small-body party that has the kind of concerns of the bill that Andersen's representative expresses. It is precisely in order to take account of those who initially find it most difficult to fit into the labour market that the law has been promoted. Disability is one of the groups we know from experience that have problems getting into the labour market. The more we are able to facilitate this group's ability to fit into the labour market, the better it needs to be. That's my starting point and the starting point of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e196	This was a very interesting answer. I understand this on the representative Eriksen that there is a very great opportunity for the employer to assess and emphasise the personal suitability, i.e. what comes on the side of what can be documented in any legal case about this, the purely formal, purely professionally documented qualifications. Would it then be possible to say that a person who complains and goes to court because he believes he has been discriminated against and discriminated against under Paragraph 55(A) cannot be expected to comply with a judicial decision even if he has better documented qualifications to refer to, than the one who was employed by the employer contradicting it by saying that the person who was added had other, more informal advantages – he was personally more suitable for this position, so I did not place such a great deal of emphasis on the documentary, formal qualifications of jobseekers? Is that the answer that Odd Eriksen now gave, so to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e201	I have by no means intended to enter into a debate on the recruitment procedures of the Chair here. What still surprises me is that the representative Torbjørn Andersen does not see that there is still room for us employers to assess the personal suitability of the people we are going to employ. Today, it is true that private employers are as good at employing people with some type of disability as they are in public. In many ways, it's the public that should try to be more good at employing people with some disability. The formal qualifications of a jobseeker will always be easy to document, so it is not at the level of concerns related to the law that the Progress Party is now expressing. What the law takes as a starting point is that there should be no discrimination against jobseekers linked to some type of disability, for example: And that kind of consideration I think there should be a broad consensus here in the hall to be able to attend to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e208	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e211	It should simply not be allowed to discriminate in our society, and it should certainly not be allowed to discriminate against disabled people when they are added. In the summary made by the non-discriminatory groups, there was an absolute lack that disabled people were left out. There are many people who have some type of disability, actually between 17 and 20 pst. And although the participation of people with disabilities has increased in the 1990s, the disabled have a significantly lower participation rate than the average of the population. I believe that the labour market’s need for labour will make corporate sports open up to those who are working in a disability. But it's a future. Per. the date when disabled people experience a high degree of discrimination in relation to their working life. These are the feedback I have received. And that's sin, for work gives access and a community and has great impact on the life of the individual. Therefore, enterprises and, in particular, society must provide facilities for disabled people to actually carry out their work, as expected. It is not the case that persons who have limited performance in relation to a position are covered by this protection of discrimination. It has to be clarified – and already has been done – that this amendment does not provide the right of access for people with disabilities but that it should prevent indiscriminate discrimination. And there's a difference between the two things. The Christian People's Party is concerned that employers' assets in the organisation of permanent workers with disabilities must be minimised, and it must also be easy to get such facilities through social security and other public services. That is why we think it reasonable to follow this up at the next budgetary procedure or perhaps at the follow-up to the Sandman Committee. The Christian People's Party also believes that the change of law can contribute positively to changing attitudes, that a person with disabilities is also important for the labour market, and the Christian People's Party has agreed that § 55 A becomes more effective by introducing information obligations and sharing the burden of proof. These are decisions that Swedish business already adhere to, and there are also two EU Directives on equal treatment in working life, so this is not unknown and uncultivated. The Christian People's Party believes that the change in the law will lead to more disabled people being included in the working life without any additional burden on businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e227	The suggestion in the option contains two elements. One is to include disabled persons in Section 55(A), and then it is to change the burden of proof and to introduce information obligations and liability for all those covered by Section 55(A). This case has been dealt with twice before in the current downgrading session. At the first reading, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party in this Chamber chose not to support the proposals they are in favour of today, namely change in the burden of proof, change by introducing the reverse burden of proof or sharing the burden of proof – dear children have many names, that is about the same – and introducing information and liability. This was clearly rejected on the basis of an argument similar to the one given by the applicant, namely that it would cause a large part of the employment not to be made through open calls, but through the use of recruitment agencies, or that people were found in other ways, because they were afraid that a company could be involved in a complex legal process, and therefore they were protected. You sometimes take the simplest solutions, you know you do. In particular, smaller enterprises have problems with fear of being involved in major legal rounds. My question to the Christian People's Party is, what is it that makes you so drastically think otherwise? I have read the comment, and in the comment they say that it is because the experience shows that this is not working. But the experience doesn't show that this isn't working. Experience has shown that a single case relating to § 55 A has not yet been brought before any court in Norway. This is a law that has been in operation for a year and a half, and you have no experience with this. Nevertheless, Christian People’s Party can already conclude that experience shows that today’s rules do not work. They haven't been tried!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e237	It is true that these rules have not been tested in relation to § 55A, but the equality law has such rules, and they have not had the negative effects on business that one was afraid of. In the case of equality laws, a total of half of Norway’s population is included, including all women – a very large proportion of jobseekers. The Christian People's Party has been very concerned that the disabled are, in fact, largely excluded from the labour market. And it's resource depletion. We believe that there is a need for sanctions to change this, and now the change has taken place in Section 55 A. The disabled are included, and it made it easier for the Christian People's Party to include sanctions. Otherwise, it's not that shared burden of proof is new and unspoiled land. Sweden has such instructions. The EU has this kind of thing. We could soon be forced by EEA requirements to have the same. And the equality law has had such an aspect for a long time, but it has had no negative effects on businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e246	To some of what Erna Solberg asked about, and as Apelthun's seal did not answer any particular question: It is true that everyone here is concerned that people with disabilities are getting the best possible job offer. The Christian People's Party is concerned that they are being excluded from the labour market, and it was said that the possibilities of work are now considerably increased by the sanction provisions of Section 55(A). But I heard little about what Erna Solberg asked about whether we could have situations where jobs were not published or advertised at all. And it is asked whether it helps these groups of people mentioned in Section 55(A) to get more opportunity to get work, when we have to assume that job calls will now take more anonymous form. I would like to get an answer to that exactly from the Christian People's Party, whether they think it is relevant, or whether they reject it as immaterial.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e253	The fact that companies go directly into the labour market and pick up the people they need, and as they know, without having been advertised or announced that a job is available, I think there is a growing tendency to assume that there may be few seekers to the positions they post. But this is a hypothetical question, and one shouldn't answer hypothetical questions. I don't think this case alone will be a factor that increases that trend, but I think the trend is there in itself, and so he can be a problem for those who are not asked to take a job. I understand that the Progress Party is very concerned that it is the formal qualifications that are now becoming unanimous. I have no faith in it. I've assigned thousands of people in the public sector, and there are also certificates of having done a good job, documentation, references, seniority, all of these that are not formal qualifications with exam papers, qualifications, as a counter, and that have to count further forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e260	Now it's the case that the Equality Act is not just about employment. It is also concerned with everything else that takes place in relation to discrimination, for example. when you are at a workplace. That's why I have a question, because I'm a little interested in knowing what it is that has made the Christian People's Party actually changed its position. Many of the cases that have been dealt with in relation to the reverse burden of proof in relation to the Equality Act relate to employment where, when you are first employed, you have a further right of governance for the employer than in other cases. Many of those matters are about it and about the private sector, because there are some questions about the degree of governance that an employer should have, and what can be put into the concept of a ‘substantial condition’. I just want to know if the Christian People's Party has gone through and looked at the number of things that have been, since they justify the change in position with this. In addition, I would like to, because there are so many different perceptions of what is a ‘serious reason’, to ask the representative to say a little about it. That's where the problem lies. What is the cause of employment? What do you put in that? Is it e.g. the stomach feeling that counts when you have interviewed five-six different people who are reasonably equal? Is it the feeling of the person who's going to work with the person that's crucial to who you actually want to have in the company? Is that a cause for concern? There are a lot of people, not least at first-time jobs, for example: by graduates, based on that type of assessment. If that's an actual reason, it's proven how to deal with this? There are such things that make me think that this law is difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e265	I have not said that it is easy to decide on this law. There are many laws that it is not. What is a very serious reason? There I have my own experience of building on it. It is clear that a very large number of options are decided at an interview and then there will be a subjective assessment, but there is no reason to say that there is no valid reason. And then it's possible to specify what the ratings went on. If that's not going to happen, we're going to get back to it. Here we are talking about active discrimination against a disabled person, and that is what this law prohibits. The second issue was blatant discrimination and equality law. I have not personally gone through this, but in the matter we are dealing with now, it is clear that the paragraph that is in the Equality Act, which is identical to the one that we are now introducing, has not resulted in significant burdens for the individual companies. I believe that, without having personally dealt with all the matters that have been dealt with under the equality law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e274	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e277	We have, as I mentioned in a previous line, dealt with § 55 A several times, in fact we have introduced § 55 A in relation to the protection of discrimination, during this period. When we did that, the Right had a serious discussion if we were to go this way, if we were to make this kind of law. Because we didn't originally mean to use the law for a number of attitude paragraphs or this kind of code that we know very well from other countries, for example. The United States, which the EU has adopted in recent years, and which other countries are also aware of. One of the reasons we have traditionally not been so willing to go that way is that we believe that the kind of discrimination issues you face here is not solved in the courts. This can be solved through other attitudes in society and by positive means of increasing the number of people with disabilities or from other ethnic cultures into the labour market by making their skills more visible. This is not primarily done by having lawyers discuss whether the feeling of stomach was correct or not in connection with an interview. So we've had a "two-position" for the whole paragraph. But we have said that because it is important to show that we are against discrimination, we have wanted to have a §55A. We also wanted disabled people to go under it, but we had initially wanted to get a better basis for investigation before taking the primary position. So that did not happen to the Bondevik government, and that is why we went in last year to oblige the Government to make a bill similar to one part of the bill that has been promoted today, namely that disabled people should receive a protection against discrimination in Section 55(A). There is no doubt that there are degrees of discrimination. Sometimes it is obvious that employment takes place through discrimination. Most of the time, I think there are many unknowing choices made by those who employ them, that they attribute to those who come from another country, another culture, another language group, or someone who has slightly greater problems of organisation because he is disabled, qualities that they actually don't have, or problems that it will create. This can be solved first and foremost by actively marketing and proving that these can work. That's why we have, among other things, promoting a proposal to improve labour market policies and the integration of people with disabilities, which we have discussed earlier in the Stortinget. When we oppose the proposals on the reverse burden of proof, compensation and disclosure, it is because we seriously believe that it is not the way we get more people with disabilities or foreign languages – or homosexuals for that matter – to work or prevent discrimination. On the other hand, we believe that this is a typical political flagship that is not about getting more people to work, but about making the activity visible for its own part. I have been amazed that the parties that otherwise do not like the United States and other countries of the European Union are the ones that are now most concerned about the legal activity and solution policy that is about meeting up in the courtroom for all things, and that it is those who will actually be involved in this. The main problem in these cases is what is relevant. And the main problem when you're going to face up to a courtroom is to tell you about the cause, about the feeling of stomach you had. There is a very big difference between talking about factual considerations and obvious discrimination, as some of the representatives have said earlier in the debate. Open discrimination is therefore so obvious that the person who is discriminated against can lead the case without the burden of proof being reversed. So with the reverse burden of proof, it's up to the right to start discussing the gut feeling you've had after interviewing people. I think what we're at risk, clearly, is that in the case of many types of work, you start moving the process of recruitment to the recruitment firm or to knowledge and friendship. I agree with the representative Apelthun Seele that it may happen anyway, not because you deliberately want to discriminate, but because I believe that such a new law helps to create a certain fear of getting involved in legal cases and problems. I see one positive thing about this: it is clear that this type of regulation will, of course, work better in the public sector, which has a completely different recruitment process, because there is the factual consideration to be taken, which can be read out of age and longevity. But there are bigger problems in other parts of the world of work, and that's why we can't go into it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e295	It is a matter of self-criticism that public employers are not good enough to employ people with disabilities. We really shouldn't be familiar with that, and we should do something about it. I believe that § 55 A will increase the focus on this, and that it will be exacerbating. And I do not agree with the representative, Mrs Solberg, who really believes that there are enough opinions. You have to have both opinions and Section 55(A), as it is now adopted. In this case, however, the Right Party and the Advance Party have found each other and are, almost as usual, on the employer’s side. I hear what the representative Solberg says, but it gets very half-hearted. The right will not have the reverse burden of proof, which means that the employer must prove that he has not discriminated against a disabled person in the event of employment. Nor will the right party have any obligation to provide information about this, nor will it have any compensation. On the right, the employer’s right of governance is protected in relation to employment, even though we know that many are discriminated against by employment today. At the same time, Right-wing proposals for increased labour migration promote to address labour shortages. This doesn't make sense. Why do the Right only welcome certain groups on the labour market even in a situation where we are sorely lacking in labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e304	It ran me through some unparliamentary expression when I heard the post. I'm not going to use them, but I honestly think that what the representative and the committee leader now said, really isn't what's in the law section even. The reason for sharing the burden of proof has been that the employer should not prove that he has not been discriminated against. Actually, that's not what Brørby is now saying, which is in the legal text, and which we are going to vote on. It's all the big difference between the reverse burden of proof and the dividing burden of proof. At the same time, all the representatives who have spoken have spoken about the right of management of the employer not to be restricted. However, the representative Brørby says that the right protects the right of the employer's right of governance, and therefore we do not want any more work – or anything else in that way. What I think is astonishing, is that the committee leader does not know what we should really vote for now, and gives us views that other workers' party representatives have actually also made comments about, which should be equivalent to the fact that they also believe that corporate governance is right. They do not believe that the enterprises are required to prove, but are required to verify. Proveing is something completely, completely different from probating. We want more people in work, and we want to do it in the most effective ways possible. In fact, I don't think these law paragraphs are any particularly effective way to get more people to work on. I think, on the other hand, that there may be some possibilities for some of those we want to help, to get into these types of jobs, because you create a fear of what consequences it can have for businesses to start an open recruitment process. Now I'm not going to blow this up any higher than that, because we think attitudes are being combated by having a general section 55 A, without these running-to-court and court paragraphs, which might be able to counteract what we really want. This has nothing to do with our proposal for increased labour immigration. Our proposal for increased labour migration is about bringing in people who the employer has already agreed to get a job. I think that the distress in Norway in terms of labour will ensure that we get far more in the job of all the groups we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e313	This is a historic day. There is a right-wing representative on the floor of the Stortinget and warns against two EU directives. From the Center Party's side, we want a law that contributes to consciousness and behavioral change towards a more inclusive working life. Today's proposal, which is in line with two EU directives, stresses that good proposals can be made by the EU. We want to have free trade to evaluate each individual of them. But my question will be: is it actually such that, in a growing period where the Right – often passive and without posts, but otherwise active – has given its support to the Labour Party on a case-by-case basis in order to introduce one EU directive after another in Norway, then is it when it applies to discrimination at the time of addition, right now will put the foot down?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e321	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has been the State Council and has therefore not met in the Stortinget during the usual debates of the Municipal Committee for two and a half years. If she had, she would have discovered that this was not the first EU thoughts I have distanced from, I think it has been foolish that we should implement them in Norwegian legislation. In fact, there are a number of things the EU does that are not particularly wise. There are a number of public compromises between different nation states where the sum is not what we wanted to do. But it is in a way out of proportion to the EU's benefits in terms of cooperation and peacekeeping and the ability to make effective decisions at a level that can implement them, and not in relation to all the other things we should really be discussing with regard to the European Union. It is not the question of the reversal of the burden of proof or the sharing of the burden of proof in the courts that is crucial to taking a position on an EU position; it is more the long-term trends in Norway’s ability to influence its own future – also in areas where we have already given authority to the EU. It may be that if Norway had been a member of the EU – at least with another government – they might not have been given exactly these directives, or this toy regulation, a regulation that I think most people in the Grand Duchy think is unnecessary, as it does not get as hot in slabs in Norway as in slabs in southern Europe, and it is therefore not so dangerous if the slabs in the kindergartens are facing east or west. There are many of those things that we might have gotten better rules for if our experience with other slides had been in the decision-making phase. So it's not today, and then we just have to include it in the rest of the legislation. But not everything is God-reserved in the European Union. They would have made an even better decision if we had been there. Sometimes we have to weigh what's important, up to what's not so important. Should there be an EU directive in this area that we had to implement, we would probably have voted for it. It has not yet come, and then we choose to stand on our own right in this area and say that this proposal does not believe we are deceived, whether it comes from a workers' party government or from a Council of Ministers in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e330	I'll have to ask a question and illustrate it with a very simple example. A Norwegian youth with little formal education is employed by an employer. He thrives very well. One immigrant - or another - applied for the same job. This person complains and considers himself discriminated against by law because he can refer to both better and more relevant education and to more practices. Should the employer then have to fire the Norwegian youth who finally got a job, and rather hire the immigrant because the law forces him to do so when the immigrant actually has better formal qualifications to refer to? He can go to a time-consuming and costly trial, which the employer is likely to lose anyway, and he may have to go out with a larger sum in compensation for this person. They have to be able to give an answer to this dilemma, these parties that then wholeheartedly go in to make the law just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e339	I think that this question should really be answered by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, I! So I'm going to leave to her to answer this line when she keeps her post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e347	Disability should no longer be discriminated against after the decision today. Unfortunately, in a society where objectives are still far from everyday life, a paragraph 55(A) of the Work Environment Act, which prohibits discrimination when added, is necessary. The decision today is a direct follow-up to both previous work from the previous and current government and also from previous statements from the Storting and from experience with the law that is in force today. The centre party wants an inclusive work life. When the number of young people with disabilities increases, and when there are many concrete examples that disabled people have to fight social security offices and other public services and experience it as a giant to try out in the workplace, we also have a way to go from Stortinget’s side – with all our fine formulations about a society for everyone. In St.meld. No 8 for 1998–99, On the Action Plan for Disability 1998–2001, measures to ensure work for people with disabilities are particularly focused. In the Smoothing message, there are several suggestions that include a softer work line and a more inclusive working life. I personally know several employers who see the resources of the individual and who see the positive in the lack of disability and people with a minority background included in their workplace. Unfortunately, both investigations and facts show that far from all of us are equally concerned about this. The Centre Party understands that employers may have counterparties against disclosure obligations, burden of proof and liability. We still think this is necessary to ensure that the law changes do not become a toothless purpose paragraph. At the same time, there is a clear signal in such a case that it is not a problem, a problem for employers or for employees. We hope that the change we are making today will help more employers to see the possibilities instead of all constraints. We also hope that the decision taken today will contribute to a greater awareness and a change in attitudes in the individual workplace. In this case, there is also an assessment of the need for a change in the laws of the people. The Committee gives a clear signal to the Council of State to help reduce the duration of treatment in the emergency centres. SV proposes a change to the laws themselves that will facilitate the economic situation of the individual employer by facilitating conditions at work when a permanent disability is added. I would ask the Government to consider this proposal in the context of the 2002 budget or in the context of the follow-up to the Sandman Selection. I could like to challenge the Council of State to answer what will come first, and how quickly the Storting will be sent to a case that involves a follow-up to the Sandman Selection. I received a direct question from the Progress Party. I want to make the Progress Party aware that it is now making suggestions, not actually about the privilege of some groups, but about non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e367	I'm sorry for the little deception I showed instead. However, I will be given a reply to the representative from the Central Party about some of the things I asked for last time, and I hope I can get an answer. It's said that this law is very difficult to deal with. Several representatives have been involved in just that. And there will be many examples, I think, that will show that that is the case. For example, a Norwegian youth with a formal lack of education has been employed and preferred by an employer. Then there is a person, who comes under one of the groups mentioned in Section 55 A, who claims that there is discrimination on the grounds that this person was not employed before the Norwegian youth. Should the employer then have to fire the Norwegian youth, whom he thought was well suited for the job, and thus also hire e.g. an immigrant because the law forces him to do so, because the immigrant can refer to both more relevant practice and professional experience and better formal education? It is possible to take a legal action on this, but the likelihood that the employer will lose such a legal case is striking, and the fear of liability may make it not appropriate to take such a legal action. I will once again ask the Center Party to answer the question I have just asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e378	The representative Erna Solberg reminded Stortinget that I don't have that long seagoing time in the municipal committee. I now have a certain sense of the fact that the representative Torbjørn Andersen is actually taking a fight against a law that has been passed and has been in force for a long time, and is thus subject to a ban on discrimination against a number of groups, among other things. by people with a different skin colour. I want to remind you that what's going on today is two things. The one thing is whether disability should also be included in such a prohibition. I'm recording that the Progress Party is in agreement. The second is whether there should be sanctions. But what this debate is not about today is whether there are groups that are going to pluck out and give preference to others. Torbjørn Andersen re-shows something that is sad, but not surprising, simply a concern about assigning people with a minority background, with a different color of skin, to work. It is clear from the law that there is a ban on discrimination, and therefore a ban on discrimination also applies to enforcement of non-discrimination. Then it's up to the individual workplace to evaluate the individual case and situation. And let's hope that the law helps us to get more equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e390	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e393	I would first like to address the proposal that has been included in the vote. This is a very happy day for SV, and it's a happy day for disabled people. We have worked on this matter for a long time, and today it is a full victory. I'm also very happy that today, unlike when we treated Ot.prp. No 16 for 1997-98 and document No Last year's 8th proposal, promoted by SV, does not have a debate with the Labour Party and the central parties on the matter. It may be a mixed pleasure to have a debate with the Progress Party and the Right, but it is not so disturbing when it comes to the lines of conflict. I think that most people outside this room would be quite confused if they knew that until today it has not been legal, but that it has not been explicitly stated in the law that you are not allowed to discriminate against disabled people in the event of employment. I think that most people's legal awareness is completely in line with the provision we're now making. There have been many strange counter-conceptions during the debate. If the employer is now able to decide what to pay attention to. Yes, the employer can. When you place an advertisement for a new job, the employer can write in it exactly what you want. You can require as much competence as you want, in most jobs where there are no special technical requirements for operating machines or for having special functions. You can only focus on personal properties, if you want to, you can focus on experience only if you want to. It is up to the employer to ask what you are actually looking for. Personal fitness can be the most important thing – then you write it. If formal qualifications are required, you write it. What is not allowed is to say that one has not assessed the person because he is disabled, and that one has assessed it in such a way that disability has a negative impact on employment if it cannot be proven that he does. It's no worse than that. This is about mental work, says Right. I tried instead to get a line on the Right, but I realized that it went to the Advancement Party, which actually had a line to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. But mental work also depends on how we talk about things. During the whole discussion of the case, both the Progress Party and the Right have systematically spread the rumor that the governing right is under threat. There is discrimination, and there are prejudices, and such prejudices are growing when you talk about the matter each time you talk about it, talking about how difficult it will be if you get a rule of law in place to sort out these issues. Employers have feared that the involvement in the recruitment process, such as: Erna Solberg from the Right took up – was going to be very big and annoying. I think that the fear of interference might lead you to think carefully about and make a proper assessment on a factual basis, and that through it you will get employment that you might not have got elsewhere, and that will give disabled people the chance. The employers I have spoken to, who have employed people with disabilities, have basically very positive experiences, and say that they are a little surprised at how positive it actually is. So I actually have more faith in the employer's side than it seems that the right parties have in this case. In addition to this, employers are asked for the removal of 1⁄2 G. It can be discussed whether this is a major and important matter for many employers. There is not much money involved, and perhaps you can discuss whether an employer who cannot afford to do so should hire someone at all. But now they have stated this as a very important point of appeal against employing disabled people, because there are a few dollars here. Then we have chosen to take them up and say that we are now putting leadership in place here and demanding that they justify their employment, and we are going to make sure to remove the small extra cost that they might get after some time by hiring a person with a disability that might require some adjustment. Disabled people encounter a lot of problems. They are often not seriously assessed by employment, and that is what we get into place with this bill that we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e412	Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e418	With regard to the need for the legislative amendment that we are adopting today, there are some who have asked questions about it, and whether there is really so much discrimination in this area and among the groups included in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act. It has been claimed that this has been too unexplained. Where can it be demonstrated that the need for those degrees is present in order for the sanctions to be enforced, as they are now entering? I ask myself the question of an actual creation of complications with regard to the part that goes on the sanctioning provisions. We're going to have a simpler Norway, someone's talking about it. Now we make Norway more difficult with all these laws. And how can SV really be so sure that there was an overwhelming need to introduce so – I would call it – drastic sanctions rules for, as they say, making this law more effective? Where does SV get its information? For my part, I have tried to get information. I have not been able to find evidence that this has a volume that suggests that such drastic regulation was necessary, and I am thinking about the sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e427	The evidence is that disabled people have a much lower employment rate than other parts of the population, and that in periods when unemployment has fallen sharply in all other groups, it has been high and, in part, rising among the disabled. This means that in a situation where employers cry out for labour, people with disabilities, even if they have received a good education — people with disabilities usually have lower education than the general population — do not work. Very many of them face great barriers when they are looking for a job. Very many of them never get answers, their application ends up in the trash. It is also completely impossible to bring cases after a law that does not exist. So far, disabled people have not been included in this legal paragraph, and then it has also been completely impossible to raise such cases. It may also be understandable that some of them actually have neither the economic nor the ability to do so, when there have been no proper legal provisions. So to what it is that makes Norway easier and easier. For SV, at least the most important thing is to make Norway easier and easier for people with disabilities. That's our main goal. Nor do we believe that this provision makes it particularly difficult for employers, because we believe that most employers, when they get the strong signal, go through their recruitment procedures and get a system in place where they assess people factually and properly. Then a few more disabled people will have work to do. In addition, there are many other things that need to be put in place to make people with disabilities equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e436	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e439	I think it is nice that a collective municipal committee joins the Government's proposal to extend the prohibition of discrimination in the Working Environment Act § 55 A, second paragraph. In this way, disabled people also receive protection against discrimination when employed in line with other groups that have been given a special basis for listing in Section 55(A). Unfortunately, we see many examples of disabled people being discriminated against when applying for a job. There is reason to believe that, among other things. are attitudes or prejudices of employers or employees, which form the basis for such discrimination. It is important to combat these prejudices. It's important in relation to the individual disabled, but it's also important in relation to the quality we're going to have in this society. Legislation against discrimination against workers with disabilities will give an important signal that discrimination on this basis is not accepted. An overall objective of the Government is to be able to participate as much as possible in the labour market so that they can support themselves through work. Social differences are more than anything else related to lack of work. A job ensures individual income, a social network and the ability to use their abilities and resources. Disabled persons are an important labour resource and they must be given the opportunity to find their special place in the labour market. An important prerequisite for this is that disabled people do not encounter barriers to their entry into the labour market. It is important that all groups who are exposed to discrimination in the workplace are effectively protected, whether because of ethnic origin, sexual orientation or disability. Experience with the current prohibition of discrimination in Section 55(A) shows that it is necessary to propose amendments to strengthen the provision. The government's proposal to introduce information obligations for employers, shared burden of proof and liability will make the prohibition of discrimination more effective for all grounds of discrimination in Section 55(A). Those rules shall ensure more effective enforcement of the prohibition of discrimination. I have also noticed the general objections of the minority to interfering with the employer's right of governance. To this end, I would like to point out that the employer will always have to operate within certain socially accepted standards, whether justified on grounds of protection or non-discrimination, and even if this would have certain consequences for employers, they will have to deal with this. I stress that this is not a new situation for employers. In this case, consideration of the right of governance must give way to the non-discrimination of job-seekers, irrespective of their possible disability, ethnic origin or sexual orientation. I am referring to the fact that the proposed sanctions provisions are based on similar rules in the Equality Act, in Swedish Special Laws and in two EU Directives on non-discrimination, respectively, on grounds of ethnic origin and the prohibition of discrimination in employment. The provisions of the Equality Act have worked well, and according to the employer’s opinions, these provisions have in practice had no adverse effect on the individual enterprise. Then I was asked by the representative of Meltveit Kleppa about when we could count on the government to present the Sandman Committee's assessments to the Stortinget for both public debate and decisions. It's a little early to say, and it's a little hard for me to say it, because I'm not the one who's responsible for the follow-up of this. That's what the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs is. But we've been working on all the questions related to the Sandman Committee's setting, and will come to Stortinget as soon as these are processed in the Government and ready for treatment in the Stortinget. In this respect, let me also mention that it would then be right to consider the questions that SV raises in his proposal, and to have this put into a large context. That the proposal is rejected today, I do not see that the Storting is in principle opposed to such thinking, but that it is requested that this be assessed in a slightly larger context. And I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e459	I just want to follow up some of what I've been into in my previous lines. The SV representative claimed, inter alia: there was ample room for assessment of characteristics other than purely formal, substantiated qualifications. The Council of State was also involved in this, and I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of exactly what it is to be able to assess other characteristics, such as personal fitness. Is it so that there is a liberal discretion in this area? I think it's important that the Council of State makes its point of view aware of that, because I feel that if there's a judicial decision in this context, then some of the dividing lines and some of the discretion will lie right at this point of intersection – which weight you can attribute properties as personal suitability. In terms of purely documentary, purely formal, qualifications, these are much easier to identify and compare. But if there's going to come in a great deal of discretion about what's personal fitness, it's pretty interesting. I have understood this in the debate today that this is how it is interpreted here, and I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of whether it is and will be a liberal judgement to consider other characteristics in terms of employment than the purely formal, purely documented, qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e466	I allow myself to say that if we invited the Storting to make a decision that everyone should feel good, I think it would have been unanimously adopted. But at the moment that we were going to start defining what is good, and then putting some tools in place to achieve it, there was going to be a lot of disagreement. It's my definite impression that here we have the same thing. One is willing to say that there should be no discrimination, but when the Stortinget is invited to decide on the means to be used to avoid discrimination, the Progress Party in particular becomes opposed and finds out the most incredible curvatures to justify its opposition to the proposal. I find that amazing. The employer himself determines the qualifications to be required when applying for a job vacancy. And if applicants meet the qualification requirements, the applicants should be assessed against each other. Discrimination is not allowed because of disability, but it is, of course, possible to make an opinion about the personal characteristics of the individual. That's what you like to do in an interview. However, if an application is made by a disabled person who fulfils the qualification requirements and nevertheless chooses to hire a person who does not meet the qualification requirements imposed by the employer himself, it is clearly discriminatory and should no longer be allowed under this law. I don't think it should be so hard to understand this. Most of the employment in the labour market today is employment that takes place without both a call and an interview. And I have no particular belief that this provision will lead to more direct employment and fewer applications. I believe the employers who are looking for qualified personnel, advertise and employ those who are most qualified.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e475	The Council of State now started a legislative interpretation process here in relation to a given example. I personally agree that the example he gives is an example that is largely to be regarded as discrimination. It may be that there are candidates with completely different qualifications that are good for an employer, but these are not the things that I am most concerned about. There is uncertainty in the cases where applicants are close to each other and where the employer has to choose one of the applicants. So if, for example: The disclosure requirements have not been so very specific, and the applicants are almost similar, is it the feeling of stomach of the employer who employs, who will be allowed to be dominant in this context? Or is it that the employer must then have very clear, objective criteria for why one was chosen? This is not always the case – I assume that the Council of State has also been through recruitment processes – that there are objective criteria to be considered. You often have to choose between candidates who may be somewhat alike, and then you have to trust the personality impression and the gut feeling you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e480	It is true that if the applicants are similar, as the representative of Solberg says, the employer chooses from this similarity. The point of this legal paragraph is that it is not permitted to disqualify a disability with good qualifications, in some cases perhaps the best qualifications in relation to what is requested. That is what is the legal issue in relation to this. Then it's not possible to set up a whole lot of hypothetical problems. What we have said here is that when the employer chooses, and if there is a case, it is the employer who has a duty to prove that the criteria on which he has based are not contrary to the law that there is unanimity in the Grand Duchy that we are to adopt. Then it's only the court that can decide on it. But I guess there won't be a need for so many trials in court on such questions until you get a case-law that you can simply deal with. And I repeat: these provisions have been laid down in the Equality Act, and it has not created the complete chaos in the labour market – rather, on the contrary. It has meant that we have got a lot of good women into a number of jobs where it is necessary to have representatives from both sexes. This was not the case in the past, and I believe that the Equality Act has helped upgrade and upgrade Norwegian working life in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e487	No more people have asked for a line, and others have not asked for the floor in case No. 2 [[See page 332]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e495	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e529	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e537	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e543	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on the social security clauses 10 to 7 so that the employer's share of 1/2 G in the organisation of workplace conditions for disabled persons is abolished.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e601	The Right Party and the Progress Party have notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e624	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e632	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22-lower.ana.ud1197e641	There is no record available.
