ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e68	Three permit applications are available: From the delegation of the European Parliament to the 105th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Havana, Cuba, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. The application concerns the authorisation of the representative of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from 29 March to 6 April, of the representative of Karin Andersen from 30 March to 6 April, and of the President of the Stortinget, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and of the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Petter Løvik, Einar Olav Skogholt and Anne Britt Stråtveit from 4 April to 6 April, from the representative of Steinar Bastisen, from 4 April to 6 April, from the representative of Jon Lilletun, to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Moscow from 5 April to 6 April. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Dagfinn Ripnes, the first alternate of Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal County, has received an application to be exempted from meeting under Mr Petter Løvik's leave from 4 April to 6 April, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West-Agder counties: Dagrun Eriksen and Sigmund KroslidFor the Buskerud counties: Gerd JohnsenFor the Hedmark counties: Nils Amund Røhne, Sondre Nordjordet and Helge BjørnsenFor the Møre and Romesdal counties: Elisabeth Røbekk NørveFor the Nordic counties: Arvid FalchFor the Rogaland counties: Helga Rullestad and Unn Aarrestad3. Dagrun Eriksen, Sigmund Kroslid, Gerd Johnsen, Nils Amund Røhne and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Anne Britt Stråtvej, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, Einar Olav Skogholt and Petter Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e178	Helga Rollestad is present and will take the seat. The representative of the polling town of Haugland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e183	On behalf of Per-Kristian Foss, Siv Jensen, Terje Johansen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove the tax on the cost of treating the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e188	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e191	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to make proposals to legislate municipal councils for disabled people by the end of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e196	The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e199	On behalf of the representatives Sverre J. Hoddevik, Michael Momyr and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals that a share of the corporate tax should again fall to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e204	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e216	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e227	The Stortingsmeld «Børs og katedral» is an economic message for the Norwegian Church. The notification is based on the financial distribution of responsibilities within the Church, which is currently shared between the municipalities and the state. Today, we refer to the Norwegian Church as the ‘State Church’, but in a financial sense, it is more appropriate to use the term ‘municipal church’. The notification draws a picture of the Church's economic development following the introduction of new church law in 1997. This picture shows that the Church has been given increased resources after this year to establish administration at the church council level. The majority of the committee, all except the members of the Workers' Party and SV, believe that the Church in many communities has a tight economy and little staffing, making the Church vulnerable to economic cuts. The Committee's position reflects a majority and a minority. The majority, consisting of the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, mainly support the Government's proposals. There is therefore a majority to include today's grants to the Council of Churches in the framework grant to municipalities. Furthermore, this majority is in favour of extending the use of the Information Society Fund as a source of funding for tasks within the Church, including: refurbishment and maintenance of church buildings of protection. The minority wants to continue today's earmarked grants to the Church Council, while another minority does not open up for new purposes in the use of funds from the Information Society Fund. There is also unanimity on several points. It concerns the proposal to ask the Government to ensure that no document fee is levied in cases where, as a result of new church legislation, property is transferred from the municipality to the church council. Furthermore, the proposal to propose a provision of the Church Act that opens up different experimental schemes in the Church. There is also unanimity in granting a state basic grant to the Church's KIFO Research Foundation, and in maintaining the funding of restoration work at the Nidaros Cathedral on the State budget. A majority, all except the members of the Workers' Party, asks the Government to draw up criteria for the State grant to the Maritime Commission/Norwegian Church abroad, and asks the Government to propose this in the State budget for 2002. I also refer to the speakers of the various parties and their contributions to the debate. In the Christian People's Party we record that the majority line in the vote will increase the Church's dependence on the municipalities. By integrating the state grant into the framework transfers to the municipalities, the majority of the government grants create uncertainty in the Church about their economic development. The position of the majority is weaker at this point than that of the Government. The serious thing about the majority's proposal is that they remove the money from the Church without adding any leads to ensure that the municipalities use these funds for church purposes. Uncertainty is also created about the distribution effect of funds, while the population-rich municipalities will have more, while the district municipalities will have less. It is positive that the majority will provide a guide for the cooperation municipality and church, but the best thing in the economic sense would have been to continue the state grant. The Christian People's Party will consider an increase in this grant in budgetary terms. In the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that the church hearing bodies believe that a unified church economy appears to be a necessary prerequisite for improving the economic conditions of the local church. The constitution of the government does not solve the fundamental weaknesses of today's division of responsibilities: the bishop determines the activity, the municipalities have to pay, while the church council has the financial responsibility. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it should be an objective to follow the principle of financial responsibility by ensuring consistency between responsibility and financial responsibility. We therefore believe that an investigation of uniform state funding for the Church could have developed the grey areas of the present system and provided solutions that could clarify a number of issues. I note that there is a majority in this Chamber who want an investigation into a unified church economy. This majority has different premises and wishes for such an investigation. Unfortunately, we have not been able to formulate ourselves for a coherent proposal. However, I believe it is desirable to have a quick investigation into this, and I cannot see that such an investigation needs to wait for the Church Council's own work in this area. In addition, I have understood that the church hearing bodies themselves want such an investigation. Questions about the Information Society's fund are another central debate in today's vote. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the Storting should now recognise the Church's ownership of the Fund and give the Church's organs a majority of the Board of Directors of the Fund. It is important that the use of the means of return from the Fund remains proportionate to the purpose of the Fund. The government's proposal, which essentially gets a majority today, means that the Church should use its savings to pay its own activity. In this way, municipalities and the state are exempted from financial obligations. Although the Christian People's Party could have been involved in discussing new financial tasks for the fund, the majority's arrangement provides opportunities for such large withdrawals from the fund that we do not find it appropriate today to recommend a change in the law that allows for such withdrawals. Church officials are also warned against assigning financial responsibility to the Fund for the refurbishment and maintenance of protective church buildings. The Government wants this purpose to be among the highest priorities. There is therefore good reason to fear that the objectives supported today by the Fund, child and youth work, diacony and joint church activities will receive less funding from the Fund in the future. There is little reason to believe that in the future the state or municipalities will provide funds for this. Our church buildings are an important part of our national cultural tax. It is important to take care of them because they are a central part of our national and religious history and cultural heritage. An overall committee underlines the responsibility of the State to safeguard these cultural values. There's a lot of need. The Riksantikvar has estimated the cost of meeting the refurbishment needs of DKK 1.8 billion and annual maintenance costs of over 100 million. kr to prevent further maturity. These are economic sizes neither municipalities nor the Church can contribute. Therefore, the State must take in and assume a financial responsibility. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we now need to consider different state grant schemes. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the Swedish system of direct state subsidies to the Church is interesting. We also think it is necessary to explore grants from a future Norwegian cultural memory fund. However, to allow funds from the Information Service Fund to be used for this purpose is, in effect, to relieve the State of its responsibilities. Nor will the fund of the information society have the financial strength to bear this cost alone in the future. I'm disappointed that the majority opens up to such a use. The Christian People's Party also believes that the Government of the State budget for 2002 must propose appropriations for the protection of church buildings. It is difficult to see the principles in the majority's argument when they open up money to the cathedrals, but not to Nidarosdom. However, I can understand this from an economic assessment of the fund's resources. The main impression I'm left with after the committee treatment is that there's little willingness from the majority to give the Church increased resources in the future. Instead, the Church must use funds from the Information Society's Fund for tasks that the State is currently paying. This grip may release funds that may be used for new performances. However, it is positive that the majority, all except the members of the Workers' Party and the SV, wish to continue the earmarked contribution to deacony, teaching and church music. It provides the State with an instrument to give priority to future bets on doping training. A majority then also announced increased resources to the Church in connection with the treatment of the baptismal training and staffing plan in a broad sense for the Norwegian Church. In this setting, we can see the outlines of future church policy divisions. These are distinctions that I think will strengthen in the years to come. It's about the relationship between state and church. The most intense champions of today's system, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, stand together in today's setting. The other batches open investigations that may bid for changes in this ratio. In the Christian People's Party, we now see the need for a reorganization of the state-church relationship, which means that the Church can in the long run have an independent and unified economy, as well as greater freedom in several other areas. I address the proposals for which the Christian People's Party is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e257	Arne Lyngstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e262	During the past week it has become increasingly clear that we are approaching election campaigns, and it was basically no surprise that the Christian People's Party in the setting, and Lyngstad now in its post, are putting up to run over and about Norway's championship in pointing out that the Church could do much more if it had more money to travel with. It is obvious that the Church, in the same way as anything else that money is granted here in the country, could find a number of good purposes to spend more money for. But what I'm still responding to in this setting is that the Christian People's Party not only spends a lot of time criticising the principle of local funding that a broad majority of the majority in the United Kingdom were united about as late as 1996, but the Christian People's Party and the Left are making it about a premise in the vote that we should separate church and state as quickly as possible, and at the end of his speech, the case-rapporteur spent about 30 seconds on this. In the setting, both the Christian People's Party and the Left are in favour of uniform government funding, and the following comments are made: ‘For the purposes of the religious interests linked to the issue of ownership, these members consider that the Norwegian Church owns the Information Society’s fund.’ You almost make the Church a separate legal object, based on what's in the notes. I think this is such a big and important debate that if the Christian People's Party is going to use this debate, which is really not about separating church and state at all, and the Great Council's pulpit to say that one wants a distinction between church and state, I think it's important to get clarity in it. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Lyngstad: Does the Christian People's Party believe that the Storting should be leading the church-state debate? In case the answer is no, why is it so urgent to determine who owns the Information Society's fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e278	As far as I know, all the parties in the vote say that with regard to the ownership of the Information Society Fund, it is primarily a political assessment and not a legal assessment. On the way, I can agree with that. But that also means that the parties are free to conclude for themselves when you want to give signals about the ownership of this fund. In many ways, the discussion about the ownership of the fund is really a terminological debate, and thus it is actually a political assessment. Our assessment of the purpose and use of this fund over time is that it has been so strongly linked to church activity that it should therefore also be perceived as the Church's property in the future. Yes, the Christian People's Party is willing to use more for church purposes. It reveals to the replicator Synnøve Konglevoll that the Workers' Party is not, and I see that as the most important thing. The main problem with regard to the majority’s positions in this position is that everything should be so economically unobligable. And that's what I think is serious and something that the church bodies have to take inwards, and that must lead to the church sector in the future having to work more to make their role visible in society, the important task they have in a number of fields, such as culture, child labour, diacony, etc. I have no intention of bringing up any major state-church debate in this debate. However, I would like to point out that taking into account the time when this message came, it would have been possible to determine some grey areas that I think there will be a need to investigate in the future as well, no matter what one concludes about the state-church relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e289	In all essential questions, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party stand together in the vote on this matter. I therefore naturally feel no need to argue against any of the points made by the rapporteur in his statement. Of course, the issue of the ownership of the Information Society Fund is a very important issue, both in legal, legal and political terms. The note from the Christian People's Party at the top of page 10 of the setting is actually exemplary. It says, ‘By no means should it be possible to establish that the king’s right to rule over the fund does not differ from the authority of the Stortinget and the King in other state churches. Whether, on this basis, the church owns the fund, the fund belongs to the church, or the fund is a state church fund, these members consider far on the way a terminological question.» But then the strange conclusion, which I have a little bit of difficulty in getting involved with these premises: ‘For the purposes of the religious interests linked to the issue of ownership, these members consider that the Norwegian Church owns the Information Society’s fund.’ That it's a terminological question is absolutely correct, and the description of what the question is is is also quite correct. But what surprises me a little bit is that since it's a terminological question, one chooses to crush a particular terminology as the right one for the "respect of the church interests". It seems to me to be a logical blow from the premise to the conclusion. I should have heard a little bit more specific about the context. But then to the important question. The rapporteur pointed out that one third of the centre option is on one side of the dividing lines in this case, the other two thirds on the other. If you had been in government, it would probably have been a significant problem. But it is also a significant problem when you want to go to elections as a government option. How does the rapporteur view this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e308	The representative's salary is included in our remark about the Information Service's fund and the demand for the logic behind it. The logic behind it is relatively simple compared to the conclusion. It is true that when the purpose of the fund and the fund have been used have been so clearly linked to church duties, it has just underlined the church affiliation that this fund has. Based on the logic of what the fund has been used for, we think it's a natural process that one also recognizes and derives the Church's ownership of the fund. So the representative polishes wages against the fact that the center parts of this setting have chosen different solutions. Yeah, we've done it. However, I believe that one should have been able to find a common position on these issues also in the government position. I think that in future negotiations we would have actually been able to find solutions to these challenges. We also agree on some points in this setting, although the main lines show that we are a little different in position. We stand together to maintain the contribution to deacony, church music and education. We also agree to notify increased funds in connection with the treatment of baptismal training and the staffing plan of the Norwegian Church. This is the starting point that makes me think that we should actually have been able to figure out a solution. But there are differences between the center parts, and here we're also shown that there's no disinterest in the force ratios between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e315	It is rare to serve an introduction that sounds like a distrust of municipal autonomy as the introduction to the representative Lyngstad. There was little confidence that local politicians would show the will to prioritize the Church within a tight economic framework. So Lyngstad said that the minority, the Workers' Party and SV, did not recognise that the Church has a tight economy. It was a rough statement based on what is in the text. We just record that there has been a growth in support for the local church, without us deciding whether this is too small or too much. We're just recording that there's been some growth. I think most of us will recognize that the Church, in line with other public institutions, also has a tight economy. So Lyngstad said that we make the Church's economy dependent on the local economy. That is so correct. But as long as we have a church that is publicly funded, it will depend on some level. If there is reason to believe that the state will be better off defending the Church than the municipalities, I will put a big question mark on it. Based on the figures presented in the Communication, there is evidence that municipalities show a strong willingness to give priority to the Church. Then turn to a specific question for the representative Lyngstad. SV has a proposal to investigate a unified church economy. My and our starting point are different from Lyngstad's. We're starting from the municipal, the local church. That's where the decisions have to be made. It shall implement the priorities. There must then be a link between those who make the decisions for the individual congregation, those who are employed in the individual congregation, and those who are to finance this church. With this assumption, I have a proposal that the representative of Lyngstad cannot vote for. So my question is, when there is a proposal to investigate a unified church economy, why can't the Christian People's Party vote for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e326	I think the representative, through his conceptual practice, makes the issue visible in the SV approach, because he talked about the municipal church – the municipal local church. Locally, the Church is not a municipal church. It is an independent legal object, an independent local church. So the question is, how is this local church to be financed? Although the Norwegian Church is made up of many congregations, it is also a structure in which the different dioceses form a church community nationally. Will the State be a stronger defender than the municipalities? No, not necessarily – I share the opinion of the representative of Rikvam. Not necessarily. But we have a tradition in Norway with a church of office, where the priestly salaries have been the cohesive thing that has come from the state. The problem with today's system is that we have a mixed funding. There is the representative, Mr Rikvam, and I agree. Why, then, could we not have supported SV's proposals? It's quite simple because SV is only concerned with figuring out one model. The Christian People's Party has actually, through a proposal, opened up different models, so that it would have been possible to coordinate this. But unfortunately we haven't been able to do that. No, I have no mistrust of municipal autonomy. But I think that when the majority is in favour of reorganising the systems, the majority should also introduce leads that make sure that the Church knows what financial resources it has to deal with in the future, including in relation to the state contributions that one makes to the transfers to the municipalities. That will has not been shown by the majority. There's actually the government better than the bulk of the population and the slope.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e341	The background to the debate we have today is that, in the context of the 1999 government budget, the Storting asked the Government to present an overall assessment of the Church's economic situation after the introduction of the new church law. As a unanimous committee also determines in the setting, the Government has followed up this decision with the message we are processing today. As the spokesperson of the Labour Party in this matter, I am very pleased that there is a majority in the Storting in relation to all the most important questions in this message. Suffering if I wish the majority had been wider, I am glad that the Centre Party and SV have joined the Workers' Party and thus obtained a majority, where we agree. Firstly, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are united to hold on to what a broad majority in the Stortinge stood together in 1996: that the economy of the local church should continue to have its essential foundation in municipal appropriations. Secondly, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are united in integrating the earmarked grant into the general framework transfer to the municipal sector. Thirdly, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV agree that an assessment of any major changes to the financing mechanism should wait until the investigation by the Church Meeting's own Church State Committee, the Bakkevig Committee, has presented its position. Fourthly, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are united in asking the Government to facilitate increased efforts to restore older churches and antiquarian church furnishings, and that this must already be done in the escalation plan for cultural memory protection announced by the Government. Fifthly, in order to achieve this goal, the majority, still composed of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are in favour of including the Government in the creation of a Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund, to which the Storing agreed last year, protective churches of cultural historical importance for the purpose of the Fund. And sixthly, this gives the majority its support to the Government's proposal to use more of the returns of the Information Society's fund, among others. for the restoration of older church buildings and antique church furnishings. It is probably just the proposals relating to the Information Society Fund that have created the most debate in connection with the processing of this message. The Foundation of the Information Society has its basis in the Basic Law of § 106, which deals with the ‘benefied Goods’, i.e.: properties which from an old age belonged to the individual post of retirement, as income for the pastor. The Fund is currently governed by a separate law of 1996. The fund owns and manages large forest and agricultural properties, land, buildings and money capital. Only the sales value of the properties are estimated in the message at approximately NOK 2.4 billion. In addition to the sale value of the properties, the value of the capital fund comes. At the end of 1999, the market value of the capital fund was approximately DKK 1.5 billion. So it's not about small money. It is also such that the purpose of the Information Service's fund is, inter alia, to: is to ensure that the fund benefits the Norwegian Church. So I would like to stress, on behalf of the majority, that we are clarifying the purpose for which we believe that money should be allocated. We mean, for example: that the cathedral of Nidarus should still receive its allocation from the State budget. So should church research. But the majority of people give, among other things, its clear agreement that the Information Society's fund should take responsibility for all clerical housing and episcopal offices. The main proposal, however, is what I have already mentioned: subsidies for the restoration and refurbishment of older churches and church furnishings. There are many unresolved tasks in the Church. Among other things, the fund will be able to assume responsibility for the priesthood and the dioceses to release state funds to employ more performers. Not least, there is a great need for funds to restore our old church buildings. I believe that today is a joyous day for the Norwegian Church because it is a majority in the Stortinget that opens up that we can collectively facilitate increased resources for church purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e380	Whether this is a "joy day" left to see. Only the future will show it when we see the budgets. And as the representative, Mr. Konglevoll, has explained, the government is now given an scarce majority of many of its proposals. After the decision today, the church becomes more dependent on local government finances. The working party will include earmarked grants to the Council of Churches in the framework transfers, and the main message on page 35 states that: «the municipal expenditure obligations of the church must be regulated from the time when the named add-on scheme is included in the framework contribution to the municipalities». The Church Act's division of labour means that the Church itself determines the business, while the municipalities have to finance it. Church bodies and KS are concerned about the possibilities for conflict between municipal and church bodies. If then this becomes a joy to them, remains to be seen. The Christian People's Party will therefore explore different models of uniform church funding, as many church bodies also ask for. What is the Workers' Party afraid of such an investigation, because they can't be involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e394	Elsa Skarbøvik follows in his line up the message Arne Lyngstad had in his post, that the inclusion of the 110 million. kr should be such a serious blow to the Church's economy. I'm having trouble understanding that. I fully share what the representative of Rikvam says, that this testifies to the mistrust of the municipalities. That the fact that we're proposing to include 110 million. kr, representing about 8 pst. Of the municipal appropriations, to have such dramatic consequences, I have great problems understanding. With regard to the question of a state investigation, I believe that the premise for the proposal for an investigation can be understood quickly as a political signal that a wish to speed up the debate on a possible future distinction between state and church. We in the Workers' Party believe that there is such a big and important debate, and that if there had been a majority of the Stortinge who had supported the comments of the Christian People's Party, it could have been perceived as if the Stortinge in this matter chose to speed up a debate that we believe the Church should first get to sea, and which in any case must take place in a proper and proper way. We believe that there is no urgency whatsoever. In fact, I do not believe that the voters of the Christian People's Party do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e401	On two relatively important points, the majority of the vote, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, also oppose the Government's message. One point relates to the issue of the ownership of the Information Society's fund, where the notification concludes that it is the State that owns the fund – with the somewhat curious reason that this is to be stated by an investigation by the Ministry of Justice's law department on the understanding of Section 22 of the Salmon Fish Act – of all things! Indirectly, the majority also say in their comment that there is no agreement with the Government's conclusion on this point, and I think that is a pleasure. But I should have liked to have seen a little more clearly accentuated from the spokesperson of the Workers' Party that this disagreement is actually present. On another point, there is a disagreement that also has practical significance. The majority disagree with the Communication's proposal that the Nidarosdom should also be overturned over the Information Society's fund in terms of future responsibilities for building maintenance. The same proposal promoted the Government in the draft state budget for the current year, and it was only the budgetary agreement with the centre that prevented it from obtaining a majority at that time. But I would like to hear a justification from the Workers' Party for why we are going to go in order to ensure that the Nidarosdom is still on the state budget, while all other tasks of the same category for the future are to be transferred to the Information Society's fund. It's hard for me to see any principle position behind this, and therefore I would very much like to hear the reason why you've landed at this obviously inconsistent position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e408	The answer to the representative Inge Wohnning's two questions is basically pretty obvious, but I'd like to take it and say it here from the pulpit. The answer is that we have formed a majority that has been passed on to all of the main issues of the Government in this message. But in such a majority establishment, it's clear that you've had to give and take, and this is a compromise. We believe, in any case, that it must be assessed on a political basis in relation to the ownership of the Information Society Fund. But we fully agree with the Right that it is not relevant to go into the details of that discussion now, because it is of little practical interest as long as we have a state church arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e413	The representative Konglevoll spent a lot of his time talking about the return of the fund. I think it's strange that the representative did this this way, because it's only the Progress Party that will limit the use of returns for a wide range of purposes, such as, among other things. includes research. All other research is funded differently than through funds — fund returns as they are. We should not forget that there is SEK 1.5 billion in the fund. Nor should we forget that the need for refurbishment is estimated at DKK 1.8 billion, and that the annual maintenance thereafter is in the order of 100 million. kr for these church buildings. Nor should we forget that the insurance premiums for church buildings have recently increased by several hundred percent, so that it is at all difficult to get these buildings insured. If it comes from the condition they have to be in – some of which are almost ready to fall – or if it comes from church buildings burning at a much larger rate than other buildings, we should not discuss here. However, what I would like to ask the representative, Mr Konglevoll, is how the Workers' Party – after they spend relatively modest money on the returns, because they also have to take care of other things with the returns – has thought that this large item of DKK 1.8 billion and SEK 100 million. kr for annual maintenance shall be financed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e420	As the representative of Ursula Evje knows very well, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have, in fact, come together earlier in Stortinget that we want to use the returns of the Information Society's fund for, among other things. upgrading the cathedral of Nidaro. But when this matter came to the House, it turned out that the Progress Party had completely different premises to do this than the Workers' Party has. Among other things, the Progress Party calls for the lifting of the duty of residence of the priests and therefore believes that there should be no reason why the Information Society's fund should operate with reindeer housing. We disagree. When it comes to the great challenge of restoration and refurbishment of old church buildings, I am very pleased that the representative Evje asks about it, because in this setting we are actually launching an offensive together with the Center Party and the Left. We are promoting proposals that make clear demands on the Government that there should be an increase in investment in this area, among other things. in the escalation plan for cultural memory protection to be submitted by the Government, and we propose that church buildings should be part of the purpose of the cultural memory fund, which the Stortinget, but not the Progress Party, has asked the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of. In addition to that, as part of an increased investment, we suggest that we use the proceeds of the Information Society's fund for upgrading old church buildings. So I believe that just this setting shows a very clear position by a majority in the Storting about taking on this responsibility. We have many beautiful church buildings around the country that are an amazing part of our cultural heritage in Norway, and it is clear that we have to stand on what we can to make this work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e427	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e430	It must be assumed that it is the coincidence that the Value Commission completed its work the day before the debate on Stock Exchange and Cathedral in Stortinget. But in today's media it can be read that of the many proposals that the Commission has made, the proposal to change the Constitution is also on two points. One is the provision in the Basic Law Section 12, which reads as follows: «Of the members of the Government, more than half of the number should look to the public religion of the State» – that is, the so-called lex Mowinckel. The second amendment is to the Basic Law § 28, which deals with the provision that officials are to be appointed by the King of State Council, and ‘other matters of importance’, as it says in this paragraph. This refers in practice to the appointment of bishops and the appointment of prosthetics. You can meditate a long time on what is the value of these proposals, but they are interesting as an example of how little we are today conscious of the context of the Constitutional Law on State-Church Relations. It is obvious that, with these two changes, the Constitution would also fall §2, 4 and 16 or at least be emptied of any political content. Then it would no longer have any purpose to maintain the provision in Section 2 that «The Evangelical Lutheran Religion remains the State's public religion», the provision in Section 4 that His Majesty the King «stedse» shall confess to it and enforce its interests, nor does it refer to Sections 16 and 28, which mention the king's obligations to make substantial decisions on the matters of the church. When it is important to point this out in the context of a communication on the future economy of the Church, it is because it may seem that the level of awareness of what our current church system really is about, and what it obliges the Norwegian state, is relatively modest. Governments in particular may appear to have left the Norwegian Labour Party with almost unlimited ambitions to uphold the King's authority to decide in the area of the Church, while having a very modest level of ambition to follow up the state's obligations towards the Church. I believe that this is the main reason why in political opinion there has been a significant shift in recent years towards the fact that more and more political parties have programmed in their principal programmes – and in part also in their electoral programmes – that they want to wind up the state church system. It is obvious that it is unreasonable if, in reality, our inherited state church system, which dates from the time of the Single Church, is to be practised in such a way that the state insists on fully redeeming its right of destination over the Norwegian Church in ways that differ sharply from the state's right of determination over other religious communities in that society, while at the same time refusing to take the consequence in terms of the financial obligations to secure the future of the Church. The rapporteur pointed out that the broad dividing line in the Committee's position goes between the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, on the one hand, and the Christian People's Party, on the right, and in most contexts also the Progress Party plus the Left on the other. It is interesting to mention that the three parties that make up the majority consist of the two parties that are most concerned with preserving the status quo in relation to the relationship between the State and the Church, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, plus the party that has been the longest in principle opponent of the State Church system, and that has in every single period of enlargement promoted proposals for constitutional changes that dissolve the Church of the State, namely SV. It's not quite easy to understand why SV, who is the principal opponent of a passed church system, joins with the two parties that are the most cordial followers, to preserve the current economic system, which in itself is an economic system that makes it difficult to release the Church in the short term as well as in the long term. The Norwegian Church's biggest economic problem today is that the economic system is so complex and complex and has so many different actors with each of their responsibilities that it is almost impossible to predict the overall economic outcome for the Church. In essential areas, the decision-making authority in relation to church activity is one place, while the responsibility for meeting the costs lies elsewhere. No matter how one might think about the relationship between local church self-government and municipal self-government on the one hand and the state on the other, it is clear that this in itself is a situation that for a large organization like the Norwegian Church is difficult to live with. And it's also hard for the actors who have different obligations in the system to live up to their obligations. That's why the Right, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has very strongly wanted to go in for an investigation of a comprehensive economic system that will make it easier for the Church to plan its activities and start its operations locally in the future. Like the rapporteur, I see reason to regret that it has not been possible to bring together a majority for this proposal. That means that we will be in a situation where you lose several momentum when the Bakkevig Committee delivers its attitude about a future arrangement of the state/church relationship in a year. Then you might have to decide at that time to start such an investigation about a future, whole church economy. If you had decided to do so today, you would have been able to establish a decision-making basis and a basis for further action on the important issues of the future church system, which would not have resulted in the time loss that is now at risk. During the committee's work on this matter, there have been quite clear observations from the church authorities and also from the Municipal Councils that today's economic system in the Norwegian Church is being found to be of little value. The majority of the Committee did not attach any importance to this by not wanting to carry out an investigation into how a more coherent economic system could look like. For my part, I find that regrettable. So finally a few words about the Information Society's fund. I pointed out in the previous reply that it is gratifying that a unanimous committee rejects the Government's view in the paper that the Information Society's fund is to be regarded as general state property. It's a step in the right direction. Therefore, it is difficult for me to understand that the bulk of the population still wants to manage the Information Society's fund as if it were general government property. What is real is that we are taking a long step towards strengthening the trend of last year's government budget proposal to roll financial commitments that are currently in state and local authorities over to the Information Society's fund, i.e. relieving public budgets by shifting new categories of expenditure to the Fund. It does not improve the case that this is combined with proposing increases on some points that the state traditionally has the obligation to cover, namely the number of performance positions. What happens in that way is in reality – as the case-rapporteur said – using the Church's savings and presenting it as if it were gifts from the state. It's in my opinion an unfortunate example of double morality, and it's not like, as many people think, that double morality is twice as good as single morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e453	Now I'm a little uncertain about whether the representative's salary in his post put the emphasis on the church-state relationship, or whether it was the economic situation that he put the most emphasis on. It is a matter that the representative also had to pay, which is a little unclear to me. When the representative attacks the plurality of inadequate financial commitments towards the municipalities and a difficult financial situation for the churches by integrating the proposal for a church council into the framework of the municipalities, and by opening up funds to the Information Society Fund, the representative says that we should have a rapid clarification here. It is also set down in the setting, even in a proposal that has not received multiples, but that Right is associated with the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Left. In the next round, it is stated in the comments from the Right and the Advance Party that it is not unnatural that the question of a unanimous government funding of the Church's purpose is discussed more thoroughly, but one suggested that ‘more radical changes in the forms of funding occur’ – pending – ‘for a more detailed discussion of the future relations between the Church and the State’. What's my real right? In one eye, a quick clarification is needed, and as the representative pointed out, it must be at the same time as the settings from the Bakkevig Committee of the Council of Churches. In the next session, a not so much haste with this, as I understand it. Is there a need for a rapid assessment, or should we take the debate church-state first?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e462	The answer to the representative Upbeøen Hansen's first question, whether in my post I was most concerned with the relationship church-state or of the Church's economy, is yes. There are two sides to the same issue, and not two different questions. If you're going to have a real political debate on these things, you actually have to put the discussion about the Church's economy into the historical setting where this discussion belongs. Otherwise, the discussion becomes uninteresting. To the second question of the time perspective, my answer is clear. There is no contradiction in what the representative Uppøen Hansen referred to. It must be kept clear that we live in a society where investigative tasks take some time. What we've asked for is an investigation that should provide a reasonable basis for choosing between different models of a future church economy. When we have fixed it so that we have asked for such an investigation to be carried out at the same time that the Bakkevig Committee's setting is presented, it is precisely that we should not waste undue time. On the other hand, the implementation of a new economic model will of course not be possible at any time other than in the context of changed relations between state and church. So the reasoning goes to my discretion very well in hops. We have asked that this investigation be carried out simply because everyone who lives with the problem of daily life, the municipal elected representatives and those who are responsible for the church activity, has asked for this because they have the shoe on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e469	There was an unusual reason why the analyst the pay representative had when he was trying to explain the positions of the various parties to the distinction between church and state. That it was to be the Workers' Party's will to decide over the Church and at the same time their inability to donate the Church's money which was the reason that several parties gradually went in for a separate church-state, surprises me. It is possible that this is the case in the Right, but with us in the SV, there are probably more basic fundamental considerations underlying it than such a pragmatic attitude as the Wage suggests. Inge Wohnning was concerned that the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who have different positions in relation to the church-state division, have agreed on this matter. In relation to today's financial management, we make relatively small changes to this setting. I would probably like us to go even further in the direction that the municipalities would have a greater responsibility, and to build up the earmarked funds. There are small adjustments, and I think the representative of Wage should acknowledge that there is no dramatic reversal of the funding of the Church that lies in this. Some adjustments, but important adjustments in that part of the struggle is now to be conducted locally, where the Church and the congregation are. No pay was concerned with a unified church economy. I have to ask a question for Inge Wage. I have a proposal where we ask for an investigation, and where we connect a number of other things to such an investigation, which is going on a democratization of the Church, how to manage to increase the activity and participation in community council elections. This cannot vote in favour of Inge Wohnung, but we have the same goal – a unified church economy. So I have to ask Inge Wohnung why he cannot vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e478	I have experienced a slight decrease in hearing today, so I am not sure whether the representative Reikvam said that I had provided a reason or a green analysis. But I'm definitely taking both variants for information. It is right that the representative, Mr Rikvam, points out that the majority to which he himself belongs is proposing microscopic changes. That's actually what I put the emphasis on in my post, that you basically want to cement today's mixed economy for the Church. That's why I pointed out that for me, it's a little surprising that SV, who has such fundamentally justified counter-conceptions about the integration between the state, the municipalities and the Church, wants to semente today's system. It does, of course, appear to be relatively mandatory exercises when SV regularly submits its proposals for the abolition of the state church system during each major period. It gets the character of an obligation race, at my discretion. Then I also register that SV has undergone a conversion. Of course, when it comes to a matter like this, it's not negative that people are being converted. During the first three quarters of this major period, the representative of Reikvam has been opposed to framework transfers in all our cases, especially in school cases, in all our cases, and has repeatedly proposed defining minimum standards by the state and controlling them through earmarked appropriations. After the SV national meeting, I have recorded that the exact opposite line has been laid down and developed a rhetoric where everything is to be included in the framework transfers. It's an interesting reversal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e487	The representative Inge Wohnning noted that he was concerned that since there would not be a majority in this Chamber for the proposal to investigate a state funding of the Church which could be presented at the same time as the Bakkevig Committee, the process of any distinction between the Church and the State would be delayed. I may have misunderstood very much, but it seemed that the representative of the payroll felt it would be a pity if that process were delayed. I have to say that I have problems understanding why the Right has been given such urgency in this matter. The right is a conservative party, and the state church system is a system of a hundred years long history, which the representative Inge Wohnning was also involved in his post. If you were to make such a profound change, why is it so urgent that if you were to do so, you wouldn't be able to spend a few more years on this? I would also like to ask the representative for the salary: if there had been a majority in this position for an investigation, with the premises on which the representative for the salary is based – he used, among other things. a lot of time in his speech to talk about a majority in the Storting is to separate church and state – wouldn't it be that the Storting in a matter that really isn't about the state church system at all, would it take a position on a debate that is now going on in the Church? How is it compatible with all the arguments that we still hear about that we must take seriously and take into account the Church's own processes, the Church's own opinions and the Church's inner rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e496	The representative of Konglevoll is quite right in his observation that the Right is a conservative party. On the other hand, she is mistaken in her observation that the Right is particularly in a hurry to abolish the church system. What we are in a hurry to deal with this matter is to solve the problems that the users, namely the municipal politicians and those responsible for the Church's activities, have pointed out to the committee. We think you should listen to those who wear the shoe, because they know best where it prints. For them, this is not a long-term issue of some future finding a predictable economic system that clarifies the obligations and coherence between the power to make decisions and the obligation to cover the costs of those decisions. For them, these are quite fundamental everyday questions, which cannot wait for a clarification of the constitutional issues, which under no circumstances will be able to be resolved in this magnification period, even during the next growing-up period, but at the earliest in the post-growth period. In Sweden, where there has been a similar arrangement for the relationship between state and church to what we have historically had in Norway, the Riksdag has the power to lay the foundations for unanimous decisions across all party divisions if the Swedish calls ‘changed relations between state and church’. My wish is that we in Norway should show the same ability to get this in place. What worries me is that what today is driving the Church question forward is the Workers' Party's almost unlimited appetite to overrule the Church according to the uniqueness's pattern.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e505	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e508	The main objective of the Advance Party for the Church is to have a free and independent church. This means both internal self-government and financing based on clear financial responsibilities. The responsibility for the funding of the Church of State is and must be the direct responsibility of the State. The current situation with many different sources of public funding is not suitable for a comprehensive administration of the Norwegian Church. Unforeseeable frameworks and poor management of the cultural-historical building mass are also the result of the pulverisation of responsibility between several public actors. Furthermore, the willingness of insurance companies to draw policies is very small, and it costs a lot. This is why the Advance Party will co-finance the restoration and upgrading of the Church's cultural-historical building and furnishings to one place. The Progress Party does not consider it appropriate to fund the return of the Information Society Fund on child and youth work, research, etc. These should be clear economic responsibilities over the ordinary operation, and thus directly by the State. We have freedom of religion in Norway, we have an acceptance that it should be secured by state appropriations. It must be a guide. The ownership of the fund seems to be clear, but it seems to be clear in two opposite directions, namely that one part of this assembly believes it is the state – to use as the state wills when the state wills – and the other part believes that it must belong to the one who has started the accumulation of the fund, namely the Church itself. The most natural place to have this overall administration of cultural values is in the Information Society's fund. This is known as a fund based on the sale of church property, and on that basis, the fund's task must be to care for the building mass that this is about. The fact that the fund's yield has to be defined in the same way as is usual for other funds appears to be natural. This does not mean that there is a desire for a gradual weakening of the fund by using all returns, so that inflation will eat the fund's real value over time. The Progress Party wants a clear increase in the Information Society's fund, because the preservation of church cultural treasures is not a project that is being completed, but something that must be worked on continuously. A well restored and upgraded church property will be a good both for the Church itself and for society for the rest. In Norway, of course, we are closely linked to this church cultural heritage. In order to strengthen the Fund in order to carry out its tasks in an appropriate manner, a faster sale of nurseries is necessary. The intrusiveness shown cannot continue. Therefore, an overview of how far one is in the process and what are obstacles that create delays. The progress party does not see the obligation to live as a good starting point to ensure the performance of the Norwegian Church. Especially problematic is it when one forces individuals and families to live in attractive old buildings. Forces in this respect cannot be defended, even if they are practised. The party wishing to replace the place of residence with a right of residence which gives the municipality an obligation to make suitable accommodation available if the priest so wishes. This will provide greater flexibility for all parties. At the same time, the clergy are given a golden opportunity to get into the housing market before being forced to move there, by having to leave their nursing home because they have reached retirement age. This is a right that priests should have in common with all other people in this society. A natural consequence of this is the disposal of the foster homes owned by the Information Society's fund and the capital added to the fund's basic capital. The dwellings owned by the municipality under the 1996 Act are still owned by the municipality. The Progress Party sees it as crucial for the whole and sensible operation of the Norwegian Church that funding goes directly from the state to the Church. Then one will see that all of the Church's tasks and operations are carried out in the context. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party that are described in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e536	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e541	There is not much Progress Party and the Working Party will merge in this setting, and it is quite natural. But I would like to comment and ask something about the Information Society's fund. From the Workers' Party's side, we're very busy taking care of the cultural treasures that are very many of our churches, and that have, as we've heard, been pointing at many times today, a need for restoration of the size of $1.8 billion. Nidarosdom is one of the churches specifically mentioned in the big news, and in the setting there are several in the committee that point to different things about it. But for the 2000 budget, the Labour Party and the Progress Party were united in describing the situation in Nidarosdom as being of such a nature – one thought – that here should be a use of the Information Society Fund to make some repairs and some restoration, and one asked the Council of State to come back to this in connection with this big message that we are currently handling. Then the representative says Evje that sometimes will use the fund as the state will, and sometimes will use what the Church wants. Last year, the Progress Party would agree to use the fund as the state would – they said it then – but now the representative says something completely different. It is difficult to stick to the Progress Party's positions in the use of the Fund at any given time. At any rate, I am pleased that a number in Stortinget – without the Progress Party now – will be used by the fund to restore the churches, even though Nidarosdom is not here. The Nidaros judgment shall be financed by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e552	I wonder if I am in the same situation as Mr. Wages, that I hear bad because of cold. The voice has at least begun to get bad. We have always been very clear that the performance of restoration tasks can be paid by the return of the fund, not by the fund's capital. And then you don't use the fund, but the return. We have also said that the rules on the use of returns need to be changed and normalised in accordance with other types of funds, but that we want it restated so that inflation does not over time consume the fund's capital. We have at no time intended to write down what we have said about money for the restoration of Nidarosdom. But I would like to refer to the Evening Post of 24 February this year, which describes the fact that 142 of 232 religious services in Nidarosdom have to be cancelled in 2001 because of economics, and that operation cannot possibly be the responsibility of the Information Society Fund. Nor does the party of progress want it to be. That's where we're clear. The rate of return following the inflation adjustment of the fund's capital shall be subject to restoration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e564	The representative of Ursula Evje said that the Church has many different sources of funding. It's a truth with certain modifications. The church is now largely financed directly by the state, and the other part is financed by the municipality. The state is responsible for the performances and the central church bodies, mostly, plus some earmarked funds to the councils. The rest is a purely municipal responsibility. That's the situation today. I'm a little uncertain about what is the Advance Party's thinking about this. I think I got it. I understood it so that Ursula Evje believes that the state will take over the entire funding, that is. that nothing should be channelled through the municipal sector, but that it should be channelled directly from the Stortinget, directly from the State. That is to say, the posts to be created locally in each congregation, will then be created here in Stortinget, if I have understood the Progress Party correctly. Today, it is the church councils that are responsible for the new positions in the fields of community work, diacony and all this around in all Norwegian municipalities, in all Norwegian congregations. I think it's important that they clarify whether that's how they look at the Norwegian Church in the future, at least as long as we keep a state church. Then to the fund. The small adjustment we make, I see as a relatively small adjustment. Today we're using the rate of return, and there's been little debate about whether we're going to use the piece we're using today. The majority add up to, we're going to take a slightly larger return, that is. part of the value creation of this fund, which is then not assigned to the fund, but which goes to the Church. It must make sense that this money can benefit the Church in some way. Doesn't the Progress Party agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e573	Rolf Rikvam has perceived it quite correctly. We want a direct state finance responsibility. We want the funds to go directly to the church councils, which are actually responsible for the Church, and not go artificially through municipal budgets until they disappear to the councils, as they are to do. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that direct financing should preferably not be involved in local employment. The ecclesiastical councils must be able to employ those people who are required by law, etc., without interfering with direct government funding in this. As for his last question, that the return from the fund should benefit the Church, it is clear that there is something the Church needs more than anything else in order to be able to work and bring out its message to people most, preferably on Sundays, but also on other days, there are buildings to do it in. It's just these buildings we want to attend to, and not just to practice religion, they're a cultural tax that can be used in teaching students, which can be used for tourist purposes, which can be used in a wide variety of contexts, be alive and in our everyday lives, but then they have to be cared for. They must be restored, and they must be kept in order continuously so that they can be used – not as today, that we must save on them in order for them to last another five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e580	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e583	The title ‘Børs og katedral’ is a good name for the content of St.meld. No 14th @item: It represents both the material needs needed by a living congregation and the resources needed for the functioning of religious life. The notification is a response to the Storting's decision to obtain an overall assessment of the Church's economy, cf. decisions within the budget. S. No 12 for 1998-99. The Church Act, which began to apply from 1997, stressed that the Church would have a stronger local anchoring. Church councils were the innovation. This body should include, inter alia: relieve the administrative councils. It has been shown that the Church is struggling with poor finances in many places, just as both the school and health sectors do. This has materialized in a demand for more state funding of the Church. The centre party believes this is a wrong direction to go in relation to the intention of the church law. There is also a cross-sectional dimension of the central batches to reduce ear-marked substances. Therefore, the Central Party supports the Government's proposal to include the 110 million. kr in the framework financing. I have noticed the scepticism that the hearing bodies have to incorporate this state grant. The Committee majority assumes that a supervisor will be developed that underlines the responsibilities of the municipalities in relation to the church councils. In addition, we say that the scheme needs to be evaluated. And I assume that in this regard the government will look at the criteria for the transfers, so that it doesn't become like it's been suggested here today, that the smallest municipalities get it worse than the largest. By the way, I would like to remind you that Utsira is going to cost 1534 kroner per person. head for church purposes, while Skedsmo gives NOK 104. So it's not supported that the relationship between large and small municipalities is the way it was suggested before today. The Central Party does not support the Government in its proposal to include the 30 million. kr for deacony, church music, etc. in the framework transfers. Because we believe that these are important incentives for the churches to create a diversity in religious life. The Government's proposal for more performances is fully supported by the Centre Party. That is strictly required. But that alone is not enough. An open and inclusive people's church also needs other positions, such as deacons, catechists, etc. The centre party is therefore with and constitutes another majority which points to the need for these posts in order to meet those needs. The Church Council is responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of the churches. I would like to stress that it can be a major challenge for small, and poor municipalities that have more old, protective churches, to meet this economic promise. The need to secure the older stone and lumber squares is very great. The Riksantikvara estimates, as we have heard, $1.8 billion plus an annual amount of $100 million. kr. The central party believes that a force must be taken to save these national cultural taxes, and that a state cultural memory fund must also include these churches. We are therefore in favour of making proposals on this. We believe, unlike the Government, that Nidaros Cathedral will continue to receive funding from the State budget, because its position is special. I would also like to highlight the special position of Oslo and Stavanger in relation to the tasks they have. The new approach adopted today by the Stortinget is that funding from the Information Society's Fund for the restoration of old churches and church furnishings can be sought hereafter. This is what many are happy about, while others are similarly dissatisfied. The centre party believes that it is right to extend the use of the returns to accommodate both what I have mentioned, and expenses to municipal and diocese homes. It is important to stress that the fund should not be weakened. It shall continue to grow and guidelines and common criteria for the use of the funds shall be developed. Last week, an NTB message came out that Oslo Domkirke had secured 70 million. kr. Of course that's not right. It's very unfortunate that there are such statements, because it might give the impression that there's a Sarepta pot that we can now start popping off. That's completely wrong. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that by extending the fund’s yield base, a number of church tasks can be solved. I remember that to date there has not been such a great willingness in the Storting to improve the church economy in general beyond what the various governments have presented in the budget. By expanding the use of the fund, you will help the municipalities/joint councils to solve tasks for the benefit of the community. I know that we have a lot of opinion with us when we have chosen to use some of the fund for the churches. Let me end by referring to the situation of the Thirteen Church in the Øyer municipality. There they have had to take down the clock tower because the foundation of the church is so frightful that there will be a danger of falling. The need for restoration has been estimated at 12 million. kr of the Riksantikvaren. Experience shows that the amount will then be even higher. It is clear that a small, poor municipality cannot make such a promise. I have a good conscience today when I press the for-button to improve on this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e621	As a result of the debate, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party stand together and form a majority in several good matters in this position. Therefore, my line does not apply to the content of the vote, but to what has already emerged from the debate. I want to grasp that in this matter there is something new in itself, by the Central Party for the first time in the Church, Education and Research Committee during this process of enlargement, taking advantage of the possibility that the Centre Party actually has to go along with the Left side of the Stortinget in matters where the Centre Party is closer to the Workers' Party and SV than to the Christian People's Party and the Right. My question to the Central Party is therefore natural enough, and hardly any surprise to the representative of Marit Tingelstad: Does the representative of Marit Tingelstad consider this case to be an exceptional case, or is the Central Party open to take advantage of its strategic position if it were to become relevant in other matters during the rest of the enlargement period?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e630	I notice that the representative, Mr Konglevoll, is now going to go up a government-forming debate on this issue of the economy in the Church. That's kind of weird. I have a very good conscience now that I have accepted the Government's proposal in this area and will use some of the Information Society's fund to restore old, protective churches. There is no answer to the question whether we have thus left the centre platform. We're on it. But as everyone knows, the Center Party has found together with the Workers' Party in some things, we've found together with other parties in other things, and we'll still do that. I don't want to stand here and say that now we've changed sides. It'd be quite mind-blowing. And I found that the line was quite strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e639	I listened to Tingelstad's posts and noticed an honest commitment both to increased baptismal training and also to increase the staffing of the Norwegian Church. This is commitment that I appreciate, and I also agree that there is a need here. Nor am I directly surprised by the position of the Central Party in relation to the use of funds from the Information Society's fund, nor in relation to the inclusion of the grant to the Council of Churches in the framework of the municipalities. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that many church councils experience the 8 pst. as essential for its final financing. It's always the last heads that are perceived as important and decisive. That's why it's important to make sure that the 8 pst. which is currently there, will continue to benefit church purposes in the municipalities. I think it is good that the Central Party has received a majority comment that a guide should be developed for the cooperation between the municipality and the church. In the Commentary of the Christian People's Party, it is stated that we see for ourselves to maintain and strengthen local cooperation through, for example, local cooperation. local cooperation agreements, and that seems to me to represent something of the same way of thinking. It is important to take care of this perspective. But it is a fact that when a person incorporates the earmarked grant into the transfers to the municipalities, the distribution is also affected. Did I hear correctly when the representative Tingelstad said that the centre party would have investigated the distribution effects of such inclusion in the framework transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e650	Yes. That's the answer to the representative Lyngstad's question. What I said now actually expands the perspective of this area in relation to what's in the setting. I've listened to what the KS representatives have, among other things. said during the hearing that one must look closely at the criteria if this becomes a fact, because it may have an adverse distribution effect. I want to challenge the Council of State to respond to this, that's why I had it in my post. I think it's very important. I have to admit that I have received two enquiries about this that we have chosen this scheme – to transfer the 110 million. kr. I have received two enquiries after the setting was given. I don't think that's an expression of the huge uprising. Should it have been a big uprising that we have been here with the Government, I expect the phone to be red-hot. I am not saying that there cannot be many more than the two that are dissatisfied, of course I am not, but I would like to remind you that the transfer of the 110 million. kr was a transitional arrangement. It was meant as a transitional arrangement also in the government that both the Christian People's Party and we belonged to. We realized that we had to grant state subsidies here – as a transitional arrangement. I'm very concerned that we're going to get more local autonomy in this area as well, and I think we're keeping a clean line when we're now trying to get more and more of the so-called earmarked funds across to the local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e662	I noticed with interest that the representative Tingelstad said that the interpretation of the majority position that the committee's chairman expressed in the media by issuing – that is, that now Oslo Cathedral can expect to cover 70 million. kr over the Information Service Fund – is an interpretation taken out of the loose air. I find that interesting. The representative Tingelstad pointed out that the differences in the efforts of the municipalities towards the Church are so large that there is a ten-time difference between the most-providing municipality and the least-providing municipality. There is a not insignificant difference, and one has to assume that it is not justified by the differences in the Church's needs in these respective municipalities, but is due to completely different circumstances. Does the representative of Tingelstad assume that developing a written guide would be a sufficient instrument to balance this difference, given that we agree that there is an unreasonable difference in the Church's working conditions locally? Finally, I noticed that the representative Tingelstad was a bit ‘gliding’, because she added that perhaps both Stavanger’s cathedral and Oslo’s cathedral were in the same special position. My question is, is the reason why the Central Party is going in order to retain the status of Nidarosdom as a post on the state budget, is it the sole reason that Nidarosdom has been there for some years now, and therefore should continue to stand there? Or is there a fundamental difference between the purpose of Nidarosdom and the purpose of other church buildings? I am really amazed that the Central Party, which is otherwise not very small in terms of the willingness to increase the expenditure on the state budget, does not see the possibility of increasing the state's obligation to care for church buildings above the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e672	It's nice to have lines, so that a clear enough can elaborate on it one said or not said. First of all, with Oslo Cathedral and the 70 million. kr. I see it as a complete misunderstanding on the part of journalists, and it was corrected immediately. I just wanted to make it clear here. The efforts of the municipalities are different. But when it comes to these transfers, they represent 8 pst. – I repeat 8 pst. – of the total, I believe it is proper to be able to do this. I honestly admit that a supervisor alone is not enough to get all local politicians to understand that it is now just as much to bet on the Church in that municipality in that year. Of course it's not like that. But we could have transferred this problem to the school and seen how much it's being delivered to the school in each municipality per. student, we would have seen the same difference. So this is not a situation that is special to the Church. As for Nidarosdom in relation to the Oslo cathedral and the Stavanger cathedral: if the representative had heard what I said, he would have heard that I described the cathedrals in Oslo and Stavanger as a little special churches, and that I would pay particular attention to the Cultural Memory Fund, that these churches also had to become part of it, to say so. Nidarosdom is in a special position, it is a special cathedral in Norway and the Nordic countries, and I want it as a separate post on the state budget. It shall not depend on the fluctuations in the Information Society's fund, on the stock exchange, etc. because it is certain that the withdrawals of funds from the Oil Fund will vary greatly from year to year. Although a buffer fund has been added, it's clear that we can't hold it by saying that we're going to have 40 million. kr every year. If it's bad returns, it has to get smaller. It'll be up to the new board and the ministry to add, as it says in the notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e685	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e688	The attitude reveals that there are two fundamental views of the role of the Church that collide in this matter. This is reflected in the two proposals that go into an investigation of the Church's economy. On the one hand, a centralist state-funded church with roots in the official church and a strong performance. This view is marked by distrust, both to the local church and to the local government. It is also characterised by strong confidence in the state bureaucracy and the willingness of the Stortinge to take financial responsibility. I would assume that in other matters relating to the Church's inner life, those who stand for this view will dissuade the influence of the Storting, the Ministry and the bureaucracy. On the other hand, we have them, and there is SV, who believes in the local church – a local church that has its task in the individual church. The vast majority of the Church's activity has its basis in the work of the individual church, and the commitment exercised in the church. The Church can only survive to the extent that it manages to take people's lives seriously, go into people's everyday lives and be out there. The Church does not depend on how much government transfers it receives. For the Church, it will be important that the individual members of the Church see the connection between the work done and the responsibilities of the members as part of a municipality. In other words, the Community's responsibility for the ecclesiastical economy must be added to the municipalities. The struggle for how much of the community's money to spend on the Church must be taken locally. That's where people see the connection between the work done and the need for money. That's where one should prioritize between the different tasks. It's the local government that's going to balance the different interests with each other. Communicating the Church's economy is also a struggle of interest about who has power in the Church. This is a struggle whether it is the local congregation or the central church bureaucracy and the state bureaucracy that will have power. Communicating the economy and increasing the power of the local community and of the Councils will become a vitalisation of the people's church. This, hopefully, will lead to increased responsibilities and participation in the Council's public opinion elections. We should and we must be able to get up on the level of the other Nordic countries, such as the United States. Denmark. That means that the turnout must rise from 1-2 pst. to 10-15 pst. This is necessary if the Church is to remove the stamp as a special group stakeholder organisation. Democratisation of the Church by the participation of more people and the locality of financial responsibility must go hand in hand. This means that the local church at the Joint Councils must also have overall responsibility for all kinds of positions. It is the Councils, who know the municipalities in their municipality, who must be able to give priority to different job categories. The appointment of a pastor or a youth worker should be up to those responsible for the activities of the congregation. Today, this is shared. It is the Stortinget and the Ministry that are responsible for the recruitment of clerics, while in most other positions it is the local authority or councils that are responsible. For a few slide shows, there is a shared responsibility between the state and the local community. The aim must be to shift all responsibility for additions and priorities down to the assembly and to the Councils. In the first instance, all earmarked funds must be included in the framework grants and the distribution must be left to the municipality. Because we know from reports we've received from the National Audit Office, that designation is a bad way to direct activity. The majority open up to taking out greater returns from the fund by allowing the capitalisation of the securities to be used for church activity. Compared to current practice, this is a relatively small change. Some of the returns should go to the restoration of old churches. I am also pleased that SV has received support to convert Church Research into a common foundation that will receive basic funding in line with other research foundations. Today, church research is funded by the Council of Churches, mainly by the allocation they receive. That's where they get their basic allocation. I'm addressing our proposal, where we're asking for an investigation into a unified church economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e711	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e716	I find it interesting to hear the arguments of the representative of the Socialist Left in this matter. He assumes that there are two views regarding the financing of the Church – a purely state funding, and then the representative Reikvam builds up a rhetoric around the local community, saying that it is desirable to municipalize the church economy. I find reason to ask the representative Rikvam what this concept of municipalization of the church economy means. Is it possible to municipalise the economy of a body that is an independent legal entity? The reason why I ask is: what is the objective of the Socialist Left when they want an investigation of one level? And what is the concept of a unified church economy? Can it be, for example, also concerns the volume of the church economy, because that has to be a little bit of the point? Or could it also be that one is talking about an independent church economy for the local church? Because if that's the last thing in it, there's some reasoning about getting a unified church economy. But if there's going to be the municipalization of the church economy, it's a little illogical to understand the relationship there's a desire between the Church, whether there's going to be an independent future for the Church, and the SV's line in the state-church argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e723	As long as we have today's ties between state and church, we believe that it is a public responsibility to finance this church over the tax bill. We defend that as long as we have today's ties between state and church. And then there's two ways to do it. I can't see that it should be more problematic than that. We can do as the Progress Party says: it is the state that is going to finance this through earmarked appropriations directly to the Councils. That's what they said, and then it was a little unclear how to set up posts and all of this, but at least the money would go directly from the state to the councils. There's one possibility. It's a purely state funding, where the Church's role in many ways is placed in a slightly different situation than we want, namely having a church out there that's going to be involved in the struggle for the allocation of resources that's going on in the individual municipalities. That's what it's important to get there. And it's important to put the Church into that role, if it's going to be able to defend that it's going to get money from the public. That's what's our model, and what's in a municipalization. It simply means moving the money that the Church receives today directly in state funding to performances and all of this, to framework transfers and saying that this is part of the transfers to the local government sector, and that the struggle for these resources is to take place. That's what's in a municipalization. I am absolutely convinced of one thing: if we get to such a system, it will vitalize the Church out there in the individual congregation, and it will also be able to make visible the role and tasks the Church has, in a completely different way from what it manages today, with today's way of financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e732	The representative Reikvam sketched an interesting picture of an actual dividing line in this matter between those who want a centralist church ruled by the clergy, and those who want a people's church in the meaning of a grassroots church. That's an interesting point of view. I guess that's one of the reasons why SV – otherwise in the company with the Right – has failed to join a note in this position that specialises in the clergy, and that maybe we're both a little too little high-church to be part of it. What surprises me, however, is that he does not reveal a single sign that there can never be such a small contradiction in the relationship between the SV's principle position on the state church system and the SV's practical position on the same. It would be close to assuming that, for so many years, the SV has stood at its principal position, the party must have thought about how to imagine that a future free people's church should be able to recover financially, and one must also have thought that if it is to become a reality, it might not be particularly wise to integrate the Church deeper and deeper into the general public economy, the municipal economy. How does Reikvam view the situation of those whom I thought was the starting point of the SV's principle position regarding the church system in the future – the 15 pst. who are not members of the Norwegian Church, either because they are members of other religious communities or because they are not members of any religious community at all – how are they supposed to serve the integration of the Norwegian Church deeper and deeper into the municipal economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e746	I tried in my post to draw up some principal dividing lines. I also believe that there is a dividing line in this case between SV and Right in relation to what people believe, and what commitment people have to the Church. I actually think that people have a strong commitment, and that they want this church well. That's my starting point, among other things. That means that when we come to a distinction between state and church, which we want and which is a natural development of a historical process, we have come to a point in Norway where it is difficult and also not desirable to maintain a state church. Then we imagine – I think, without any details – that this church must be provided with income, but it is not the public that should do it. We have a model from Sweden, and I see to the extent that the Swedish model is perhaps the only possible model, i.e. that the Church itself prints a fee, or the individual congregation, the individual community, prints a fee, and then it's the community that charges this fee on behalf of this Church. That's probably the only possible model, I think. And with my starting point and my belief in people's commitment to the Church, I'm not worried that people won't get involved and take the responsibility that's going to come. I perceived Inge Wohnung so that he does not have the same faith in the Church and in the people in this context. I can't see that a municipalisation – which is the concept I use and which I have tried to define in the past – will have some meaning. Rather, it will be a natural part, because when we break the bond and the congregation of the individual church itself locally must decide this charge, this will be a taste for it, as they have to join in and take the battles locally over the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e756	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e759	This case is factually about a limited relationship with the Church's economy. But it's hard to see the matter independently of the church-political rug that exists, a church-political rug that is expressed by, for example, that. The working party and SV would like to override the Church in questions where it seems that the Church is not moving fast enough, for example. in the issue of employment, where this comes into conflict, inter alia: by the fact that some of us are church members, the Church itself thinks it should settle down, namely, the struggle for gays to become priests. In these questions you direct. At the same time, there is today a capacity to provide, not to provide much, but to start providing the Church's savings. The sum of this is, in my opinion, about a change of regime, at least from the Workers' Party, from the respectable and musically oriented church policy line that has been represented by the Government Councils of Førde and Hernes, to the line that the Council of State of Gishe represents, which is another. Now it's obvious that there's the more short-term moods that characterize this, and not the long-term lines. And it's in the long lines that the relationship between church and state has to be considered. It must be either the Church of the State remains, or it will be as I and many with me want it to dissolve. If it is to be dissolved, it must be dissolved in a dignity and properness that will end up with a liberal people's church as a result of a divorce process. And I don't see – when we go down to the practical level that we've seen today – that this is the answer. It may seem that the Workers' Party is now beginning to regard the Church of State as almost a state body or, to illustrate it with a metaphor, as the State's Directorate for Church and Religious Affairs. And if you have such a church policy view, you will of course become very practical in any approach to the Church's inner life, to the Church's financial basis and to how to resolve the relationship between state and church. On the basis of such a hindrance, the Left now wants a complete investigation of the Church's economy in connection with the Church's Bakkevig Committee, and we're doing it, among other things. because any process in the Norwegian Church has to rely on a kind of liberality on the financial issues that are absolutely necessary. And we're going to go against including the earmarked grants now, because we know that there's the fine balance between scarce municipal appropriations and these earmarked appropriations that means the margins of freedom for the communities Rolf Rekovam is so concerned about. Yes, I would like to point out through the President that Mr Reikham's representative is calling for a broad colloquial group to be set up together with his party traps in the capital, so that we can get this church-political perspective drawn by the representative. Then you could really get a test of whether the ability and the will for this carries beyond the rhetoric in the staging room. With regard to the really heavy appropriations involved in this matter, namely the building heritage represented by the Church, there is a broad consensus among all the trade unions that the cultural heritage that Norway has is largely the churches. Because that's how Norway was: Norway was a poor country, we could afford the churches, and fortunately we couldn't afford to stay with nobility and what the nobility demanded, as well. That is why it is the church heritage that needs to be secured. It can be secured through some of the majority's approaches, by having a large, voiced and genuine cultural memory fund. But we do not know this until we are certain that there is a plan that obligates the Norwegian state, just as the Swedish state has undertaken to preserve this legacy in a long-term perspective. Personally, I don't think it's powerful enough to commit the state to this, is going to be wrong, if, with the short-term grip we already have, you start taking some of the returns on the Information Society's fund to try to patch up what is not properly organized. That is why, on this basis too — in addition to the long-term church policy — the Left will not make such an outlay of the Information Society's fund. We believe that the cultural heritage needs to be secured, either by direct government appropriations, or by a large and generous cultural memory fund, as expressed in the proposal we have together with the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party on different models in order to ensure this and get a practical plan that enables us to secure the cultural heritage. Then, in parts of the setting, questions have been raised, which are very special, and which I will mention at the end of this article. This concerns the special operational conditions that have arisen in Trondheim as a result of the local budgetary alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and the special circumstances that have arisen in Oslo in connection with the Crown Prince's wedding. There are so special issues that a majority here in the Chamber has said that they will reserve the right to return to the matters relating to the treatment of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e781	When I heard the representative Dørum, I must say I thought it was a good deal of things that were in no way related. He was talking about a long-term church policy, he was talking about properness and properness, and about the need to settle the church-state relationship with order and dignity. At the same time, it is the same party that – in a minority, fortunately – is stressing towards liquidation and will almost end a thousand-year tradition in hui and haste. But that's not what I was going to bring up. What I think everyone agrees on is that it's important to take care of church buildings in Norway, not just because of religious commitment, but because they represent many amazing cultural buildings that have great historical value. We have a cultural tax that in many places in the country is in shamefully poor condition, and I think a lot of big people and a lot of governments would wish it had been done more earlier to secure that legacy. What the Government says in the message, and to which the majority subscribe, is that we want a somewhat more active use of the Information Society's fund to refurbish these important buildings. I thought that the representative Dørum was – he likes to talk about himself like that – a practically directed politician. The Labour Party and the majority believe that we need to be able to draw a little bit from the fund in order to get started with the absolutely necessary maintenance of the church buildings, our national cultural heritage. It will ensure the stability of funds and the stability and long-termity of the process of upgrading church buildings. We just have to record that the representative Dørum and the left here chooses to adopt a cross-position, an assumed principle and little practical position on the issue of how to get the Norwegian church buildings upgraded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e790	When I took up the relationship between church and state, it was on the basis of the curtain I presented in my post, and that goes beyond this matter. Because when we look at the relationship between church and state, it's the back porch and how to take care of it, is absolutely crucial for the long-term processes. So I dragged it into this case, and then I thought, and I repeat, I think it's short-sighted to drain the Information Society's fund to solve precarious cultural memory tasks. Yes, I am a practically directed politician, so practically directed that I can reveal the secret that I exhaled when, as a member of the government, I was charged with a research fund. It gets to be a public secret coming from this pulpit. Now the sitting government has been charged with a cultural memory fund. Of course, it is not against me that it gets such a volume that it ensures they approx. 200 million. kr in the year to preserve the cultural heritage of our church buildings, both in terms of refurbishment and maintenance. But because I'm not sure that we're getting such a fund, I thought – one knows of the Workers' Party's ability and willingness to seek enthusiastic experiences in their social-democratic party spheres – that they could take a study trip to Sweden, where a very red and genuine state financial attitude towards the Church in general has been established, and in addition, have established a reasonable state long-term attitude towards the Church in relation to the cultural heritage. And if I were to eat it to, the actual situation is per. Today, Norway is far behind Sweden in research escalation, but we are also doing so in terms of the ability and willingness to take care of cultural memories. And it's a cross of thought that one state has had a bottomless debt, but abilities to deal with this, while in Norway, with our economy, we have significant problems. Then there are these grips that are crucial, and not to take a bit of the savings store called the Information Society's fund. It should stay there, so that at the time you might get a distinction between church and state, you know that you haven't been in all care of that sugar jar away in the hallway because you didn't think long enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e799	The representative Dørum had an interesting and, at my discretion, comprehensive description of what it is that makes the inherited state church system more difficult and more difficult to maintain, that it has to do with a lack of awareness of the prerequisites of the present church system, among other things. the assumption in Section 12 of the Basic Law that the government and the members of the government as such have no place in the church administration at all. They only have that in their capacity as members of the Church. It's a pretty substantial provision in the Constitution, and like the representative Dørum, I have the impression that the awareness that this provision exists is modest in today's Workers' Party. But now I also understood the representative of Dørum so that he wanted to point to the paradox that it is the parties that are the hottest followers of maintaining this state church system, which today contributes most effectively to undermining the prerequisites for it. I asked a question earlier in today's debate to the representative Lyngstad about how he sees for himself the fact that the centre option in this case is on both sides of the dividing line. I would like to ask the same question to the representative Dørum, who is the junior partner in this partnership – not with regard to the age of the party, of course, but with regard to the size – if the junior partner also sees with some concern that the centre party participates in the very process for which the representative Dørum criticised the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e808	I'm not going to deepen the representative's consideration of how to see two church-political alliances, an alliance, a minority in the hall on important issues, which consists of parties that essentially share the desire for a distinction between church and state, and another alliance consisting of two parties that do not want such a distinction, in partnership with a third party that definitely wants it. - I'll leave that. I'm going to deal with the question that I perceive is about cooperation between parties. Then I would say this in the following way: Based on the experience I have gained from participating in such cooperation for two and a half years, I am quite convinced – just as the representative Tingelstad previously stated – that one had been able to find a church policy and fiscal prudence on the issues that exist here today. I am absolutely convinced that, just as we are members of the public, we can see at some point how the different parts of the working party family are putting each other in agreement to decide, in full transparency and partly behind closed doors, how to manage and arrange the wealth of the Norwegian people. We're witnessing this, and we see that it's done. And then I'd like to add that we – just as the junior partner in the Oslo City Council had to stand still with the church bureau, it wasn't right in its time – can fix it, because it's not the size of the party that's crucial, but it's the clarity of opinions and the will to stand for something. That willingness is a prerequisite for making compromises with others at all. It is dangerous to make a compromise if you are mindless, but you can make a compromise if you know which direction to go. The answer to the representative is therefore that the Left has experience in cooperating with others. I wish all the parties had. I want the largest parties in the hall to develop such a culture – but it is completely independent of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e817	The representative Dørum gave a description of the situation in Sweden. It needs some comments, because it was rather inaccurate. In Sweden, it is the Church itself who, after the distinction between state and church, prints out the tax. When the church and the state were separated, the church got a foundation, and then the Riksdag has adopted a stepping-up plan for state grants to church buildings that need restoration. Otherwise, no money was granted, but at least it was a stepping-up plan, and I expect that the Swedish Parliament in Sweden feels a little more obliged to its decisions than the Swedish Government does. When Stortinget adopts a stepping-up plan for research, for example, it is not particularly well followed up either by Dørum or others, so I expect that the Swedish Parliament in Sweden feels a greater commitment to its own decisions. And from that point of view, they've shown a roughness to taking care of their old churches. When the majority have said that using parts of the fund for restoration is good, it's about small funds compared to what we need. According to what the Riksantikvaren has said to the committee, we need appropriations that go far beyond those we can obtain through the fund. But it could be a start. This is money that's there, we can take out some of the returns, put the money in and start some processes. But it's quite clear that if we're going to do this seriously, if we're going to make real use of resources, it's going to have to be direct appropriations over the budget, and I hope that the Left and the Door will follow up when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e826	I thank the representative, Rikvam, for giving a full description of what I called generosity and liberality in Sweden in relation to the Church. I didn't get that in my previous line. The representative Reikvam has done an excellent job in filling that picture, but the conclusion to that description is the same as mine, namely, that one has shown roughness. There's a glimmer of funding for the Church through the grips that have been natural in Sweden, and a glimmer in relation to the plan it was referred to, to take care of a cultural heritage, and that I feel is something different than where we are now moving in Norway. The representative Rikvam and I share the view that even what he is in a majority, that of withdrawing from the Information Society's fund, is going to be small money in relation to what is going to happen. I'm glad that it's being corrected, because we could get the feeling of each of us reading the Evening Post's evening number for a while back, that $70 million. All of a sudden, it was going to flow out of this sarephak to Oslo Cathedral. But back to the matter: what is crucial is that these grips are found for this cultural heritage. These handles may be provided either through direct State funding grants or through a cultural memory fund of a dimension, or through a combination. I don't think it's right to take out small sums from the Information Society's fund, because it would be to change the relationship between state and church, whether the Church of State will pass, or it will be dissolved. Now I'm not going to go any further, except to say that I'm going to find out that the Church of St. Reikvam, on behalf of SV, has turned the Church of State into a municipal church. I would like to give the following description: as a member of a local council in Oslo for a long time, I would say that it is the combination of the earmarked grants that come through the state, and that municipality is willing to do, which means that you actually have this vitality's power of action that the representative, Mr. Requam, calls for. It is possible that conditions are different in Akershus, where he has his experience from, but in the big-city reality, also characterized by the clear presence of the representative of the Reikham party traps, it is such that it is this small input from the state that gives the margin of freedom to be a little creative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e837	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e840	The paper on the Church’s economy provides a comprehensive overview of developments in the local church economy over the past ten years. I am not aware that Stortinget has previously been presented with such a large number of figures on the Church's economy, and the Stortinget itself asked for the notification to be drawn up. The background to the Grand Duchy’s request was the introduction of new church legislation from 1 January 1997. The new church legislation included, inter alia: that the Church's activities were no longer regarded as municipal activities. A church council elected in each municipality would then manage the municipal appropriations for the Church. A discussion of the Church's economy will naturally take place on the basis of an understanding of what the Church should be, of what and who the Church should serve. It's a big and important discussion, and it's going on in many places. In the past, it has also been conducted in Stortinget, not least in 1996 in connection with Stortingen's treatment of the new law of the Church. At the centre of this discussion is the vision of the Church as an open church with a strong local anchor, where members know and experience recognition and belonging. I've noticed, and I agree, that the committee's discussion of the Church's economy is taking place on the basis of the objectives we have for the Church's activities, without me seeing here and now any reason to go into it. It's the financial arrangements for the Church that are the topic today. One of the main messages was to describe the development of municipal appropriations for the Church over a ten-year period, in order to obtain a comparative basis as to how the new church legislation may have affected municipal appropriations for the Church. I refer here to the comprehensive number material presented in the message. Based on that material, it is difficult to see that the Church and the Church Councils as a whole have come out less resource-intensive as a result of the new church legislation. The material also shows that the public contributions to the Church have shown a good growth in recent years. Of course, there will be variations, which we have also underlined in the message. And of course, in the Church, as in other social sectors, there is a need for increased public transfers. A central theme of the Communication has been to discuss the church tasks for which the country is to be financially responsible and what is to be a local financial responsibility. The notification does not address the issue of significant changes to the financial instrument for the Church, as it should wait until the Church Council State/Church Committee has provided its investigation. I note that the majority in the committee agrees. In order to improve the cleanliness and clarity of the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipalities in the church area, the Communication proposed that the specific State grants to the joint councils now granted over the Ministry's budget should be included in the framework grant to the municipalities. It appears from the Committee's opinion that a majority is in favour of the overall grant to the Joint Councils of 110 million. kr is included in the framework grant subject to the development of a guide stressing the responsibilities of municipalities in relation to the joint councils. I have noticed that assumption, and I believe that such guidance could have a positive impact on a common understanding both in Municipality-Norway and in Church-Norway of what is the scope of the municipalities' financial responsibility. I have also noticed the representative of Tingelstad's wish to look at the distribution effects of this conversion, and will take it with me in the further work. Otherwise, I have noticed that the majority does not ask questions about the fact that the operation of the services should be the task of the State and that there is a need to strengthen the services. I also note that the entire committee is in favour of the state taking over the travel expenses of the priests. Another important theme of the message is the use of the Information Society Fund. With so many unresolved tasks in the church area, not least in terms of the protection and protection of our older churches and church furnishings, I believe that the fund should be used to help solve such tasks. I am therefore pleased that the majority have adhered to the proposal to amend the law of the fund, so that the proceeds from the sale of securities should also be counted as returns and used for the maintenance and maintenance of older churches and church furnishings. The guidelines for such a grant scheme from the Fund will start work on, inter alia: in cooperation with the Riksantikvaren and ecclesiastical bodies. In this context, I have noticed that a joint committee emphasises the central place of church buildings in our national cultural heritage, that church buildings of national and cultural significance need to be considered as part of our national cultural memories, and that the state has a special financial obligation to safeguard these cultural memories. The majority of the Committee endorses the future financial responsibility of the Information Society Fund for the Municipal Priesthoods and the Dioceses, and that the documentation project ‘Noregs kärkker’ may receive funding from the Fund. In particular, the coordination of the financing of the priesthood under the Information Society's fund, I believe, will in the long term be in favour of the Church and of the performance. The Committee considers that the State grant to the Norwegian Maritime Commission must be drawn up on the basis of criteria or cost standards, so that the grant becomes more predictable than at present. I will discuss the matter further with the Maritime Commission. At the same time, I assume that in this context the Committee has not considered that the Maritime Commission should have a grant scheme which automatically triggers increased government appropriations if the salary and staff costs of the Maritime Commission increase more than the usual price and salary increases. I would point out here that the Maritime Commission itself determines its level of activity, which salaries are offered to its employees, and what supplements the employees should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e871	I noticed that the Council of State consistently omitted the other half of what is the name of the Norwegian Maritime Commission, the Norwegian Church abroad. In it there is a not insignificant shade. It has repeatedly been stressed by the Storting that what was previously an offer to Norwegian seafarers has become increasingly a commitment to the Nordics who have lived abroad for a short or long time. This is the background to the majority’s position in the position: that the same criteria should be used for the public coverage of the costs of the Maritime Commission, as those applicable to the Norwegian Church in the home country. So I believe in that point not that there's any doubt about what the majority has meant in the setting. I pointed out in my main speech that it is a generally accepted principle that authority and responsibility should be followed. This is true in secular as in ecclesiastical contexts. And I pointed out that there is a notable trend in the Church policy of the Workers' Party today that one wants to strengthen the exercise of authority, not least in the intangibles, while one does not show the same enthusiasm for strengthening responsibility in terms of material matters. I also allowed myself to point out that, in my opinion, this is the main reason for the change in opinion that has taken place regarding the view of the future church system. To test out the question, I could imagine asking the Council of State what happened when the Government presented the notice of gay lives and proposed to specialise in the Norwegian Church in relation to other religious communities. Did only those who are members of the Church participate in that treatment, or did the entire Government participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e880	I want to take this opportunity to take quite a distance from the reality description given by the representative of the Workers' Party and the Government's relationship with the Norwegian Church. It's not right at all, as the representative on the payroll says, that we want to have an over-management of the Church. I also notice that the representative's salary consistently in his posts does not mention a single concrete example of what kind of override this is about. Now, in this reply, a reference was made to the discussion on Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act. But let me say that the change in the Working Environment Act § 55 A is not something that we use state-denominational bodies to treat. The Labour Environment Act is a civil law applicable to Norwegian society in the same way as criminal law, road and road traffic legislation, etc. In this law, there has been an exception for religious communities in relation to discrimination against homosexuals. We are now proposing a change to it, so that this derogation should no longer be such that the Norwegian Church has the opportunity to discriminate against people on the basis of gay orientation. But this is not a church proposal. If we hadn't had a state church, had we had another religious community, which had been freed from the state church, it would have been exactly the same discussion in and of itself within the Church, but also in relation to the Working Environment Act § 55 A. Probably there would have been even more people who would have joined if you hadn't had the kind of church system you have – what do I know? But this has nothing to do with each other, so when the representative Salaries says we have a desire to override the Norwegian Church, it's not at all right. But we must, both as church members and as socially engaged people, be allowed to engage in the discussion of the position of homofiles in the Norwegian community, and especially in the church community that actually includes 85 pst. by the Norwegian people, who are so leaders of values, norms and attitudes in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e888	When I hear from the Council of State, I hear a slightly different message from what I can read from the media about the debate that is going on between the Council of State and the Church bodies on a number of questions. I mean at least to be able to record that here there are some different attitudes to and experiences of the situation. Then I also want to support the interpretation and interpretation that the representative Wohnung came with in relation to the Norwegian Church abroad and the Maritime Commission. However, I think it is right to point out, as the Council of State pointed out, that this is a big message about the economy of the Norwegian Church. The material concludes that it is good overall. But the Council of State points out that there are variations, and he also says that there is a need for increased public transfers. Yeah, what's up? Does the message respond to the need for increased public transfers to the Church? No, that's the big problem of the message. It does not take any action to get it beyond taking the savings from the Church itself. So I feel that the Council of State is actually not responding to its own analysis, namely that there is a need for increased public transfers. So my question is: how will the Council of State contribute to strengthening the economy of the local church? What ambitions do the Councils have in this area? And finally, the council had noticed what the majority said about a state responsibility for protective churches. What will the Council of State do to make this state responsibility visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e899	One of the main prerequisites for ensuring a good church economy is, with the arrangement we have for church activity in Norway, a good municipal economy. And that's why, in the 2001 state budget, we also received one of the biggest promises in the municipal economy for many years in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. The company that the representative Lyngstad has been involved in in this case is not a company that I think will be a guarantee of a future good municipal economy, because I think the tax bill, whether it is 17 billion or 100 billion, does not provide any good basis for increased transfers to those who are actually going to run the church activity. So it's said over and over again in the debate here that we're going to take the savings from the Church. No, we're not. It is a generally accepted principle in relation to the Fund of the Information Society that the return of the Fund can be used for church activity. But then it's like those who run this fund are pretty smart people, and they've figured out that instead of putting the money into a bank account and thus getting interest for them, it's going to be possible to put the money into shares, because it's going to make a bigger return, that is. it yields no greater return than the interest, but it yields a return and an appreciation. After all, it's like saving shares that it makes both dividends and an increase in value. And since that form of saving has the feature that it's the way you get a return on the shares, that's an increase in capitalization, we say that then it must be reasonable that that increase in capitalization can also be used for church purposes. It may not be possible for the fund to have to save in such a way by depositing the money into a bank account instead of into shares in order to obtain more for its own purposes and for the two types of savings to be discriminated against. The fund must be able to use the savings that make it possible to increase the value and benefit so that we can use the money for church purposes. The basic capital, the savings in the fund, shall not be affected even if we make this adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e906	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for having a positive response to the challenge I gave him when it came to the criterion basis in relation to the inclusion of these 110 million. I am also pleased that the Central Party was given the impression that Nidaro's cathedral was still on the state budget; that's not what the Government provided. In the setting, the majority say: ‘The majority will underline the long-term nature of the fund. The majority consider it very important not to weaken the OVF, but to build it on.’ The main message is as follows in the reference to guidelines for the financial management of the Fund: ‘The requirement that capital should not be used up and that the value of the capital should be secured must be established.’ As one here sees, the committee majority has a stricter restriction on the use of the fund than what was originally in the message, and I am satisfied with that. Because even though the Center Party is now in favour of using some of the returns for the purposes I mentioned earlier, we would like to stress that the fund will grow. But we accept that it can grow something slower than it has now. I therefore have the following questions to the Council of State: 1st@item: inlistbox Can he confirm that he will follow up the adjustment as it exists today? 2nd@item: inlistbox Is the Council of State willing to influence the sale of the prestige stock to get a little more speed, as the Storting has decided in the past, so that it can also provide the fund with additional funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e931	Of course, I can confirm that I will follow up on the suspension and the decisions that are now being made in the Storting in connection with the notification, and I think it makes sense for the representative of Tingelstad to assume that the fund has a gradual structure and that it has a prudent policy in relation to it. But, of course, it is also the case that, in the context of each year's budget, the Storing has the opportunity to give leadership on what kind of appropriations we give. As regards the sale of the agricultural property and the leasing uses belonging to the fund, it is continuously working on it. We are well along the way, we are doing a good job, and the last use of the package is to be considered for sale in 2001. So we're working on it, as I said, and we're going to make sure that it also helps to strengthen the fund's economy. So I'd like to say a few more words about this with the use of the fund. I am very pleased that the Central Party has joined and is in the process of forming the majority that has emerged. When it is presented as if this was almost taking the savings away from the Church, and that the state is using this as if it were an ordinary state fund, I do not agree with that description. For what is the money to be spent? This expanded use is, of course, investing in church capital, perhaps the most important capital of all that the Church has, namely building and church furnishings. So there's a transfer from one type of capital to another type of capital within the Church we're doing here, so that the Church might keep the money to a greater extent than they would if there was a discussion about the fund. In a future discussion – if there is a distinction between state and church – it is certain, as it also says in the setting, that there will be a discussion about who has the ownership of the fund. But I would think that the church buildings and the church furniture will certainly follow a secluded church, if it's not a state church, so, in that sense, a transfer from the foundation to church building will be a sure guarantee that a future church, if any, will get those values.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e940	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e943	Church values and traditions create a common hold between generations, and are a central part of our cultural heritage. The great enigma of the Church's markings and events in its individual life shows what the Church still has to say as a gathering church of people. The Labour Party wants an open and gathering church that strengthens values such as closeness, human dignity, care for those who have it difficult, and international solidarity. The big message that we are handling today about the Church's economy represents a comprehensive material on the Church's economic situation and the development of the Church's economy. As we now discuss the economy of the Church, we are well aware that we are awaiting major changes in the financing arrangements for the government/church selection. That's why I'm completely in disagreement with Right, who owes the majority his proposal to make the economic situation of the Church more difficult. Actually, it doesn't. Our society needs a warm, living and above all open church. We see in today's society that many need guidance, comfort and help. This will also be reflected in the increasing pressure of the clergy in the Church. An increase in the bet on performance adjustments, which the Labour Party has supported in the State budget this year, among other things. by creating 35 new performance positions, and the priest's working environment is important for the church sound and for the work there. I would also like to highlight the important work done by the deacons, the catechists and the others working in the church sound. The Church is a cultural institution and an important part of our common cultural historical heritage. But of course, the church is much more than culture, the church is a commercial house and a religious service house. The state has a special economic obligation to secure these cultural memories for future generations. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that a stepping up of cultural memory protection is necessary, with increased efforts to restore our old churches. It's actually increasing the value of the Church, regardless of how we view the use of the Fund. The most important thing should therefore be to refurbish and refurbish the inventory in our beautiful church buildings. The Workers' Party, in addition to the others who have been in the plural here, believes that a large part of the returns to the Information Society's fund should be used precisely for the maintenance and initiation of work to take care of our old churches. I'm very happy that we have got multiple numbers and breakthroughs for this vision. In fact, I think this has not only been a sport of the Center Party, they have always been involved in these matters and have shown that this is what they stand for, even when we had the case for handling. The minority is so concerned that the state should not have ownership of the Information Society Fund that they cannot come up with any concrete solution-oriented measures to solve the problems we are facing right now in today's situation. There is not enough criticism; finding a solution is required. That's what we've been up to in the majority, and I also thought that the minority should have gone in. It is not enough to say that one will look at the issues in relation to the next year's budget or revised national budget, one must show the willingness to do something. Transfer from the state to the ecclesiastical councils is this year of 110 million. kr, and the municipalities help with approx. 500 million. Total kr. We believe that it is important that the financial responsibility for the local ecclesiastical activity lies with the community. The church is a meeting place with strong local anchoring, for example. has been building up the local church administration would be very important for the local work in the church sound to work well. I have great confidence in the Church Councils, and I only hope that this project, as a project, will be launched in order to increase the activity of elections to the Soccer Councils, will be closed, and that there will be more than 2-3 pst. Of those who are in the Church, who go to the parish council. It's important for the parish council, and it's important for the church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e964	The new church legislation was introduced in 1997. One consequence was that the municipalities would still be responsible for the majority of the funding for the Church, while the responsibility for managing the municipal allocations was transferred to a popular church council in each municipality. The economic situation of municipalities is therefore also important in this context. The message we are handling today gives us an understanding of how the new church legislation has affected the municipal transfers to the Church. The municipal contribution to the Joint Councils has increased dramatically — by more than 50 pst., i.e. from 966 million. DKK in 1991 to SEK 1487 million. 1999 kr. This is an illustration of the economic and administrative implications of the new church law. Select to mark is the local variation of the appropriations. This is due, inter alia, to: together with variations in the needs for the operation and maintenance of church buildings. The Labour Party considers it important that the responsibility of the State should be confined to the performance of the services and to the activities of regional and central church bodies, while the other church tasks closely related to local needs should be financed locally, i.e. outside the performance service, where the municipality will be the main contributor. The Church plays an important role in the local environment as a centre of faith and not least as a cultural centre. The Labour Party therefore considers that the State grants to diacony, teaching and church music and the general grant to the Joint Councils should be included in the framework grant to the municipalities. The financial responsibility for the activities of the churches lies as mentioned in the community, and then it is unfortunate that the state is responsible for local church funding. There is close and good cooperation between the municipality and the church in most municipalities. Another argument is that the Church's basic organisation is the individual congregation. It is also important to point out that the establishment of joint church councils should not weaken the autonomous responsibility of the municipalities for the local church. The minority claim that this would result in a more difficult economic situation for the Church is a type of argument that is often promoted against incorporating earmarked schemes into the framework grant to the municipalities. It's not specific in this context, we often find that. But we must also be able to trust that the municipalities are able to take this responsibility. It's about trusting local self-government. Inclusion of the general grant to the General Councils of 110 million. kr in the framework grant will result in an increase in church and municipal autonomy. The Labour Party believes that it should be a local responsibility to give priority to different church tasks and actions. Indeed, the intention of the Church Act is that such a priority should take place locally in close cooperation between the municipality and the church. This is a continuation of the idea of the municipalities as the main service producer. For the Workers' Party, it is about developing schemes that best meet local needs. It's about responsibility and decision-making authority being moved closer to people and out into the country, out to the municipalities. This must also be seen as part of the renewal of the public sector in order to have more simplified legislation and procedures that promote good services for users. The Church of the People depends on the municipalities to recognise a responsibility for the Church's activities, and that they follow up their responsibilities in relation to the church councils. In particular, an amended financing scheme will help to strengthen the local democratic church. The Labour Party wants an open, confessing and gathering church, and, in this context, a clearer distribution of responsibilities between the State and the Commune in the field of church duties. We are pleased with the support of the Center Party and the SV. The majority's proposal is a step in a direction that is correct from the point of view of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e983	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e986	I would like to raise a problem that the Committee has not raised in its position. In many of our municipalities, the state has precincts, consisting of land, forests and buildings. In many places, the country has sold or fixed land for housing, public buildings, etc. This was previously done at acceptable prices. Over the last two or three years, the Information Society's Fund has changed its pricing policy. State Forest Contract Service is responsible for selling lost land to be disposed of. I want to refer to the price development of land in my own municipality, North Odal. Unfortunately, we have the same price developments in many municipalities in the country. In May 1999, Stadskog Contract Service set the price for raw materials at NOK 20 per year. m2, corresponding to the market price in the area. I assume that the owner had registered that a discretionary transaction from 1996 had reached the same real estate price. In November 2000, Stadskog Contract Service set the raw material price at NOK 83 per year. m2, or a four-fold increase in the price of one and a half years. State forest and contract service thus takes four times higher roughage prices than private owners in the municipality of Nord-Odal and in a large number of other municipalities in the country. The price is determined by a valuer obtained from the central eastern region. Municipal representatives and/or representatives of buyers/festivities were not informed about the taxiing. I am surprised that the State v/Information Service Fund should be the driver of an unreasonable increase in property prices. I hope the Council of State will look into these matters as soon as possible and contribute to the follow-up of a more district-friendly price policy consistent with the locally prevailing market price in each development area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1001	The background to the debate today is the new law of the Norwegian Church which began to apply on 1 January 1997. The law then had the intention of giving church bodies greater autonomy in the framework of the church system. This is why church councils were also set up and earmarked for the state budget. This will now involve a majority in the framework transfers to municipalities. The Church thus appears as a two-part organization with spiritual activities and a local activity linked to Council bodies. The state runs from the responsibility for the Church, which is given a self-responsibility by law. I would like to stress here that it is the Church's own bodies that are calling for an investigation into a unified economy. The government will have increased efforts on the performance service. This is necessary, because we want more priests who are assigned to the special service of preaching the gospel and managing the sacraments of the churches. There is also a need for a predictable economy as the basis for the Church to be a confessor, a servant, a musing and an open people's church. The majority today also state that the escalation plan for church staff will require increased funding. Then I also think of other church duties, such as education, deacony and church music. The Christian People's Party is pleased that state subsidies to these groups are maintained. But the majority of the Storting will not decide that the Information Society's fund is owned by the Church itself, as the Christian People's Party will. I understand that the law department's statement, which refers to an interpretation of Section 22 of the Salmon Fishing Act, does not provide sufficient grounds to conclude on the issue of ownership. But there are also other investigations. But with the fund’s clear ecclesiastical anchoring and conditions, there can be no doubt that church bodies should have a majority in the board of the fund. And I'm surprised that there's no majority for this either. But I find that there is a majority in favour of new tasks for the Church being covered by the savings, while also recording that there is a common commitment for the Church as such. And I expect that this will also show up in future budgets, because in the hearings we've had, it's a very unambiguous announcement to improve the financial conditions for the Church further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1012	Buildings and houses belonging to the Church must be preserved not only because they represent important cultural memories, but also because they are the framework of a living community life. The great uprising of the Church's ceremonies and markings of events in the individual's life shows the importance it still has as a gathering church of people. In the debate about the Information Society's fund, a few impressions may be that the right side wants to create a big distinction between those who are for and those who are against a state church. It is very sorry and not worthy of our purpose with this message, which states that the Church is being kept in the best possible and appropriate way. One of the purposes of the Information Society Fund is to ensure that the Fund benefits the Norwegian Church. According to Section 6 of the Law, the proceeds of the fund may be given for church purposes or added to the capital after the decision of the king. And in my opinion, this is the majority and the minority divide. It seems that the minority only wants to add the returns to the capital without using it to the precarious needs of the Church, such as. The restoration of our beautiful church buildings and furniture. The majority of the Committee, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, want the municipalities to be able to apply to the church councils for support for the financing of older and sheltered church buildings. This may be done by allowing the gain from securities held in the Information Society's fund to be used actively. This can speed up both the maintenance and restoration of churches and church furnishings. It is only the gain on the sale of securities that is to be used in a different way than in the past. This does not mean that the money should be taken from the fund itself. The fund shall continue to be built up and the fund capital shall not be usable. It is important here to stress that, in cooperation with the Church Councils, municipalities should continue to be responsible for church buildings, but that it should be possible to apply to the Information Society Fund for support for exceptional maintenance and restoration. The Ministry is expected to develop common criteria and candidate guidance. Another important emphasis is that such increased investment should not be compensated for the responsibilities of the church law to the church council and the municipality or the church owner concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1028	More and more people are coming to the conclusion that the Church of State should be abolished, not least because the Church itself is not being respected on many important issues today. The Norwegian Church is pressed from behind and edges that are not even members of the State Church, who are engaged in anything other than Christian work, but who just as far from it would like to affect how Church and church sounds should behave in their work and function. In my view, therefore, there is a pressing need to speed up the reform process with the transfer of greater responsibility to church bodies and with a view to ensuring that reform work should lead to a distinction between church and state. By reading your current settings carefully, you will find interesting shades of angle and wording. One sees that the plurality, the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre, want a church that is quite familiar, and that focuses on closeness, human dignity, care for those with difficulty, etc., while the Right Party and the Progress Party refer to a church that is familiar, mind-blowing, and tantalizing. I expect that the Christian People's Party will notice these differences. Church should, of course, be something more and have higher objectives than being a controlled piece in the welfare state. When it comes to staffing for services and other tasks in the Norwegian Church, there are at least two ways to do so. Since the Value Commission claims that Norway is a Christian, perhaps the faithful of several priests should go down. There'll be fewer customers. But one can also turn this trill around and claim that at such times there is a need for a spiritual effort like never before. There is no doubt that staffing needs to be increased in order to achieve better baptismal training. If it is no longer necessary to tell about Christianity in the Norwegian school, despite the fact that the parents who have chosen to baptize their children, must be sure to be a proper training for them through good ecclesiastical arrangements. The church is fuelling the economics of the local church work. The inclusion of the church council in the framework of the municipalities will create uncertainties and concerns in many places in the country. The same applies if funds from the Information Society's fund are to be used in heavy areas that are currently state tasks. The information service's fund is a prestigious fund. The return has so far benefited from the Church Council and the Bispedium Council for various church purposes and projects. That's good. Many would, however, appreciate the fact that the fund could also be used more for cultural purposes, for example. to high-ranking church concerts, larger shopping, etc., which are otherwise difficult to finance through ordinary channels in cultural life – small money for the fund, but great money for music life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1043	What amazes me most in this matter is the Central Party's position. We have all noticed that the majority in this case will incorporate the grants to the Church to a greater extent into the general grants to the municipalities. I assume that the representative Tingelstad and the Central Party want the best for the Church, that we should have a living, committed church that covers the broad spectrum of the population and that has a necessary financial framework. If we look at the next thing we're going to deal with today, the majority, including the Center Party, have come to the conclusion that the state has to take over the funding of technical colleges, because you've seen that you don't locally prioritize as our intentions are here in the Stortinget. But in this case, the Center Party has come to the opposite conclusion. Here you have full confidence in local politicians and their priorities, without the slightest fear that the priorities will lead to a further suffering from the starvation of the church. I don't quite understand this. It seems to me that the Center Party does not have any clear lines, but changes the basics and principles on a case-by-case basis. It might be tempting to ask: How can it be that the Central Party has full confidence in local politicians as regards the prioritisation of the Church, but not confidence in technical vocational school? Otherwise, in this case one can well know that there is a strong crack in the cooperation between individual parties in this room. This is underlined by the clear invitations served by the representative of Konglevoll to the Centerpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1056	The representative Inge Wohnning tried in a previous line change to present it as if SV had gone through a reversal. Now this is a word that's being used in charismatic movements. I assume that's the starting point he had. But when he claims that SV has undergone a conversion, I think this is due to the fact that Inge Wohnning has slept in the hour and was simply not interested in our life and life. In recent years SV has been aware that we want more funding for the framework transfers to the local government sector. We've been clear, even before our national meeting where it was strongly emphasised, that we want to move money from earmarked funds to the general framework transfers. Obviously, there has been no Inge Wohnung. Then I can help him here and now by saying that this has been a policy that we have been pursuing for quite a long time. We realize that in certain areas there must be minimum standards. But there's a difference between minimum standards and ear tagging. The National Audit Office is quite clear that ringing is a very bad way to control it. So a little bit about the Maritime Commission and the Norwegian Church abroad. SV is a member of the majority who requests the Ministry to contact the Maritime Commission with a view to obtaining funding methods and more predictable appropriations for the Maritime Commission. It must be clear that what we are now talking about is the responsibility of the Maritime Commission as the Norwegian Church abroad. The Maritime Commission also has other tasks. What we're talking about now, when we ask the Department to contact the Maritime Commission, is to figure out a system for exactly this particular role: being the Norwegian Church abroad. There we are and there I believe that there is a need to find models, so that the Maritime Commission has some security in terms of funding. This does not mean that if the Maritime Commission considers that there is a need to set up posts, it should be automatic. It must be clear that this is to be jointly implemented by the State and the Maritime Commission. So finally, several have referred to the fund as the savings of the Norwegian Church. After all, the Norwegian Church is the state church that has been given these funds and thus has them at its disposal. It must be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1070	Now when I draw myself to a three-minute post at the end of the debate, it's because I think it's been spent both a lot of time and a lot of words on a description of reality where you struggle to be the one who makes the mildest promises to the Church. Words have also been used in the setting such as anxiety, disappointment and a great deal of distance between objectives and financial resources. So the representative Arne Lyngstad in his main post manages to present this as if the Workers' Party is not concerned that the Church should be well-kept. Then I'm going to encourage a little bit more reality. To those who argue that government funding would be so much better, it must be said that the decision taken by a broad majority as late as 1996 to continue the responsibility of the municipalities was a totally wrong decision. To the Christian People's Party in particular, it must be pointed out that the party has not only been in government for two and a half years, but it has even had the minister of the Church for two and a half years, without it having led to any violent growth in the appropriations either to church activities or to positions in the Church. To the left, it must be possible to point out that the Minister for the Environment has been in office for two and a half years, without leading to any billions of funding for cultural memory protection or church construction. It must be allowed to point out that we have had three central parties that have ruled for two and a half of the four and a half years that have passed since the Church Act came into force, and it must be allowed to point out that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been with and adopted two of the four state budgets that have been adopted since the Church Act came into force. It should also be possible to point out that the centre parties — if not all, so at least one of them — have been involved in and adopted every state budget over the 1990s. So the reason why the Workers' Party has not addressed the majority's comments is that we don't think we should use settings for, for example. to say that in the future it will be considered to escalate some subsidies. Rather, they commit themselves to the calculations — and we do so when it comes to upgrading church buildings. But when it comes to evaluating appropriations for the years to come, there's actually something that all the parties are obviously doing, not just in the Storting, but in local government and in county councils and where it was going to be. So this isn't about that we're not concerned about the Church's well. And to finally take that point, the Church's economy depends on the finances of the municipalities. We made a significant increase in the framework appropriations for the municipalities in the autumn, and it is clear that it will also be positive for the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1085	I think the setting that we are handling today has become a great setting. So here the government has submitted a message that has been passed on to the most important points, while we – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV – have together managed to write a setting in which all the parties have put their mark on the church policy that we want to pursue. There have been very good solutions: first, that one should continue to increase the local anchoring of the Norwegian Church, and that one can use some of the fund's added value to secure church cultural treasures. I think it's a little strange to hear how some people have blind faith in the state, blind belief that the Storting will provide sufficient funding – and similar mistrust that local politicians, the municipalities, can do the job. We have very much faith in our local politicians, as opposed to some others here in the Chamber. We have confidence in local self-government. We're convinced that things don't automatically get biter by the fact that it gets centralized. I'm afraid that if you're going to make the Church more dependent on government appropriations, it could be more alienated from the local involvement, and that the upsurge of church work could actually be weakened. I have listened relatively carefully to Inge Wohnning many articles so far. One thing that remains after those speeches is the repetition of the fact that the Workers' Party has an premature override of the Church, and that in a way we intervene in what was to be the Church's inner affairs. When he started talking about this, I listened carefully and tried to get hold of it: Where is the override really? What are we doing so wrong? I listened and listened, and he repeated this without a single concrete example. So suddenly it appeared, and then it came to my mind: it is that we have proposed changes to Section 55A of the Working Environment Act. So there's the override. I have to say with respect that it seems that I was grotesque. And I hope that the representative, if he's going to continue his rhetoric, can provide some more concrete examples of what we're doing so wrong, and in what way we're running an untimely overmanagement of the Norwegian Church. We must be able to demand that when he uses such strong words, he can make his criticism concrete more than he has done today. So I look forward to hearing about what the Workers' Party is doing that is so terrible for the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1096	Just some summarizing comments from me: There has been a major debate on the Information Society Fund. It is underlined by the majority that one now wants to build up capital without using it. I also noticed the representative Tingelstad's reply to the Council of State on the limitations in the management of the fund. That is what I think important nuances are to be found, and it clearly gives some assurances that one will manage this fund in a good way in the future. But what's a little bit of the challenge here is that a new purpose is being added to the use of the fund's returns, and it's these new purposes that are likely to distort part of what is being supported by this fund today. That's why we in the Christian People's Party see, when we see the sum of all these new purposes, that here we can't put any more purposes into it, and that we must therefore hold back from the change of law that the majority wants. So we're going to vote against V. I have also discovered that during the debate the expectations for the contributions to church maintenance are nuanced. That is good, and it only underlines the need for state grant schemes for the maintenance of church buildings. I also allow myself to comment on two articles at the end. Synnueve Konglevoll accuses the centre parties – at least the Christian People's Party – of pursuing over-the-counter policies in order to make its own church policy visible. But when one points out that the criticism we are making about today's system is a criticism of ourselves in 1996, I would like to remind you that an important part of the 1996-97 reform process was to make the churches more independent. Thus, one also introduced the local church as a separate legal entity in relation to the municipalities, and thus one must have a good dialogue and a good cooperation between the local church and the municipalities. Here the experience is more nuanced than that one could say it works well over all places. Because it doesn't, and I see that the system can be conflict-making. Finally, the representative Tomas Norvoll says that the Christian People's Party wants to stress out a millennial tradition. First of all, I just want to remind you that the state church system in Norway is 500 years old. That's the one. The other thing is that we don't go beyond the church bodies themselves have asked on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1114	Of course, to some extent I can understand that the Christian People's Party is a bit hurt today when they cannot – or will not – join in, they are allowed to join – in the plurality that takes care of the Church's economic situation in the future. But that's the way it is. Once you've been in the center of this before, the representative Lyngstad may feel a little disappointed. At least we're all the more happy that we're in this plural, and believe and mean and stress that we're committed to the Church and want to participate and also make the financial conditions for the Church as good as possible. I want to deal with the matter that we've had going on about Nidaro's cathedral. It is the only church that has stood as its own post on the state budget. This emphasizes that Nidarosdom is special. It has high church activity and concerts as well as church sound work. In addition, it has a staff that can perform restoration work and that can help the other churches in the restoration work that needs to be done. It is important that one takes care of the competences that are among these peoples, and that one has a special view of Nidarosdom, as well as the Oslo cathedral, which has also been mentioned. Following today's decision, it will still be such that the Nidarosis will remain on the state budget, because one should not use the Information Society's fund for work on the Nidarosis Cathedral. On the part of the Labour Party, we should wish that we could do so, but, as we have said, we have reached a compromise on this, but it must not lead to the Nidarosis not being preserved. In the end: I am not cold, and I hear quite well today. I've heard this claim to Inge Wage about override several times. I thought that right now had to become a little bit more concrete. And it's not just today; it's kind of been a simple speck: the Labour Party will override the Church, the Labour Party will not church well, the Labour Party has no trust in church issues. I'm not going to say that I let myself be annoyed over the Right, because I don't take them seriously in terms of letting me get annoyed, but I think it has to be a little bit more concrete. If you want to make such claims, they have to contain them. As the representative Norvoll said, it may not be a suggestion from the Government to change a paragraph of the Working Environment Act so that no one can be discriminated against, which is over-control. I don't even think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1128	First a little response to the visit that the Progress Party did to me. I recommend the representative Knudsen to listen to the post I am going to have about St.meld. No 20, and listen to the reasons that I have there, which are in line with the position of the Berg Committee. So to the claims that the majority is now in the process of further weakening the Church's economy because the majority has the proposals for decisions that exist here. I believe that we know that we now relieve the municipalities of something by helping them with the restoration of old church buildings, etc., with our hands on the heart to say that we would rather strengthen the municipality's economy. But what I really took the floor for was Einar Olav Skogholt's posts, which were timely. It was about the price policy followed by the Information Society's fund. There are more than one Santas that react here. I remind you that the renting fees for the service gardens have increased somewhat dramatically without the necessary maintenance being carried out. It's in my vocabulary almost a shame that that happens. But when that is said, I must also remember that it does not help challenge the Council of State on this and say that he will conduct a different pricing policy, because the Information Society's fund does what the Stortinget has asked for. An economically sound price policy shall be pursued in order to maximise the return on capital and on funds. That being said, I am open to mention some more nuances in certain areas, not least in the case of the precincts. It was very useful that the representative of Skogholt developed this in the debate, because it has been completely absent. But at the same time, if one goes completely away from the big decision that was made in its time, it is clear that the fund will grow slower.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1139	I want to grasp this with the overarching of the Church as a problem, to which the representative Wage opened up, and to which the Council of State reacted very spontaneously. The Council of State obviously sees the Church as completely equal to, for example, State Road Service and other public bureaucratic devices. The Labour Party has a clear need to govern the Church of State, and it comes out clearly. The same need actually had the Romans, led by their emperor, when they tried to force the Christians. The Romans failed. Do you want the Workers' Party? Misinformation to the users or people most can also be a good way to create opinions about the Church in general and other faiths than the Church of State in particular. In repealing Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, Muslim communities will also be imposed, for example: employing lesbian imams. I am not sure if they would think it was particularly nice, but it is in the nature of the matter. To point out this with incorrect information: I recently attended a small debate where the Council of State was not present, but where one came on behalf of the Council of State. The following was said in this debate: ‘... in a congregation, whether imam or pastor of a Catholic community in the free time...’» It made me start wondering if there was anything wrong with my understanding of the Catholic Church, so I wrote a letter to the Archbishop of Trondheim and asked questions about this. I have received an answer to the letter, and the answer is correct: ‘The simplest answer to your other question — whether it is possible to be a pastor in our Church as a leisure assignment — is negative.’ So it's probably about misinformation, you might say, in a debate with a little bit of a hot, things you can't quite stand for. I think, when we talk about the Church, we have to start to be more sober and take things up in the magnitude it really is about, out of respect for and out of respect for the staff of the Church – those who run there – and for the people most, who are going to listen to us and listen to the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1158	Some brief comments at the end of the debate. Those of us who have had comments about the Information Society's fund have just criticised the lack of principle in thinking. We've criticized it because in some sort of fissure and dugnad argumentation, the fund's return is beginning to secure cultural heritage. But splintered and hard-working practice in Norway is based on reciprocity and volunteering. There are no church organs that I've listened to in this case, which think this is some catchy idea, so this is a coercive action that doesn't promote what's fissure and the good idea of good mentality, that's that people give each other their hands and promises with. Here, the state decides that this is a good move – because the Council of State does not have money in its budget, it does so. It's the conflict, the collision, between being so practical short-sighted and the principle here I've previously criticized. So I noticed that the representative Tomas Norvoll's contribution to having great confidence in the local populace. I would then recommend that the representative Norvoll take a study trip to his party traps in Trondheim, which in a strikingly uncritical way has made sure that the cathedral in Trondheim has come into a hopeless operational situation. It could be an interesting study trip in meeting with Trondheim United Workers' Party. I wish you luck on that trip, because it's absolutely necessary. That is what has led a majority in the United Kingdom to say that we need to consider coming back to this in the context of the revised national budget. So in the end, I heard the Council's response to the representative on the payroll – and, to a large extent, on mine – post on what I would call the Workers' Party Church Week. I am among those members of the Norwegian Church who have for a number of years struggled to see gay cohabitants living in marriage positions in the Church, and I have found that there has been a trend towards this – a quite clear, positive development. It peaks with Jens Torstein Olsen. Obviously, there are many in the Church who don't like it, but the state council's justification per. Today was almost that he here raised himself above any principle thinking in relation to a religious community. He made it almost a matter of labour law. Then comes the litmus test, as others have also said: Is it then the Norwegian Church that is to be overruled in this way, or is the overcontrol also to apply to other religious communities? Of course, you don't want to do that. And then I'm going to add: it's crazy to act like this when we're active church members, see how the meeting with the practical reality actually makes people change their minds. Because it is not possible to be dogmatic inside your head when confronted with a human being that you know, and one sees that the human being stands for something eel-ridden, even though it was not in your book when you were little that it was to be eel-ridden. It is precisely this whole process that leads to the appointment of Jens Torstein Olsen through the majority council in the majority room, and it is the lack of respect for this that leads to the Labour Party Councils being able to reconcile about most people in the Church internally to say: we will not. It is this lack of principleal coherence that I have previously characterized as a change of regime in the Church policy of the Workers' Party, a shift away from the line drawn up in the axis between the Førde and Hernes, and the Gisk, which implies a breach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1168	I take note that the representative Rikvam does not want it sitting on him that he should have undergone a conversion. However, as regards the reality of what we have been discussing, I note that he stressed that he is still a member of the State's minimum standards for the performance of municipalities, for example. in the field of school. Now the representative of Tingelstad showed earlier in today's debate that the differences in the grants granted by municipalities to the Church are dramatically much greater than in the difference in the grants granted to the school. My question is therefore: why does the representative of Rikham not find any reason to set minimum standards in terms of municipal services for church purposes, when he considers it necessary to do so with regard to school benefits? The representative Norvoll stated that he has absolute confidence in the local politicians of the Workers' Party in caring for the Church's economic heritage. It's reassuring with confidence. But, as the representative Dørum mentioned, the Workers' Party – for the occasion with the Advancement Party – has clearly created a situation in Trondheim, the church capital of the country, which would in practice lead to the demise of even the basic church activity, the services, through the budgetary decision taken in view of the next year. I assume that the representative Norvoll will let it flow to the local politicians of the Workers' Party in Trondheim whether he trusts in such conduct or not. So to the fundamental question of the Workers' Party's desire to use the political authority to instruct the Norwegian Church in spiritual matters. There are two current examples. I have mentioned one: the proposal relating to the Working Environment Act § 55 A. The second concerns the Equality Act. In both contexts, the Labour Party operates with an absolute distinction between the Norwegian Church and all other religious communities in that country, and it is believed that because of the state church system it is entitled to implement this discrimination, that on a political basis it is possible to dictate its position on ideological issues, while – for the time being at least – it has refrained from trying the same thing with regard to other churches. There is a lot of evidence that the Catholic Church is facing a papal election in the not distant future, and if the Workers' Party were to be consistent, one should have made an advance to get the Norwegian Equality Act in place in time for that election to take place. At least they had a consistent religious policy. My main point is: the state church system does not give the workers' party government or any other government the right to implement this discrimination between religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1177	When the representative of Wohnning digs so deeply into the argumentation issue that he brings forward the Equality Act in connection with Norway's relationship to the appointment of Pope in Rome, I have to say that the argument is relatively thin, and the search for concrete examples of over-management of the Church still applies. He mentions the Working Environment Act and the Gender Equality Act. Both of these laws are civil laws that apply in Norwegian society. Whether or not to include the Norwegian Church is completely independent of whether or not the Church is a State Church. It's not a church council that decides these matters, it's not church politics in that sense. There is civil law in force here. In my view, church communities and religious communities should also, as far as possible, be covered by civil law. For example, we accept. We do not accept sexual abuse in the name of religion, nor do we accept discrimination in the name of religion. The Norwegian Church includes 85 pst. by the Norwegian people, and therefore stands in a special position in relation to legislation and in relation to norms, values and attitudes that characterise Norwegian society. And when the Church meeting itself says that equality is in line with good Christian ethics, I see no reason in the world why the Norwegian Church should not also be subject to the equality law. But I record that the Right sees it as an important struggle to ensure that equality law does not apply in a church, even though equality is good Christian ethics. So I still want to know what concrete examples the representative has of over-management of the Norwegian Church. Because we don't use the Church's organs to instruct the Church on theological issues, on the contrary, those questions lie with the Church itself to decide, but we use civil law to cover as much as possible of Norwegian society, as we've always done. Then we get to accept that there are different views about it, but you have to stay too good to use the argument about override and instruction when that's not the case. I believe that Section 55A of the Working Environment Act will not have such a great practical impact, but I think it is a clean-up that we do not have a discrimination clause for the large Norwegian church community in our civil law, which covers most of the Norwegian people. I don't think it's going to lead to any major practical problems for the Norwegian Church, but it's a step in the right direction in relation to equality between gay and heterophilic in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1188	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1191	First, I want to thank Inge Wohnning for letting go of the name again, because I don't feel like it. So the economic differences between municipalities. When we go into minimum standards in education, it's simply because we have numbers that say that municipalities use everything from approx. 30000 and up to 120000 kroner per person. student. There are so many differences that we think there is a need to set some minimum standards. Where they are to be, we can discuss, but there is a need for it. As far as the Church's economy is concerned, it is now divided by two. The state is responsible for a good deal – among other things. priests and some slide shows – and then the municipality is responsible for the rest. And the fact that responsibility is shared does not make it the big differences. But if we got through our model – where the municipalities got responsibility – and it turned out that there were unreasonable differences between the municipalities, I will be involved in discussing it, but per. Today, there is nothing to suggest that the municipalities do not prioritize the Church. That there is too little money, applies not only within the Church, but largely within all the public sector, and is a result of municipal poverty, created by, among other things. No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1200	No salary has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1203	What worries me is that the Council of State obviously does not understand the issue of discrimination between religious communities. A society uses civil law based on the principle of equality of laws. That's what I thought was elementary, and it probably has to apply also to religious communities that there should be equality for the law. The fact that the Council of State does not understand that it is contrary to this elementary principle of equality, and also in violation of the principle of freedom of religion, when the Government uses its formal authority in relation to the Norwegian Church to force it into something that one does not want – or at least does not try to force other religious communities – confirms with all clarity that it is actually the basis of the Labour Party's church policy. That the reason was to be that 85 pst. the population is a member of this church, and therefore it can be discriminated against in principle, must at least be meant to be a joke — and as such it is bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1208	I record that Inge Wohnning has now stopped talking about that it is the state church authority we use to override and instruct the Church, and so this debate has had a learning outcome. It is civil law that applies, and I must say that I am surprised if it is that the Right does not in fact agree that the churches and religious communities should as far as possible be part of civil law. If the representative does not see that there is a difference in Norwegian society in the Norwegian Church with the tradition, the position, the cultural heritage and the social heritage that we have as a Christian country for a thousand years, and other religious communities, I must say that I am surprised. Of course, it is the Norwegian Church with 85 pst. by the Norwegian population as members in a completely different way characterise values, norms, attitudes in Norwegian society. Then I believe that in the work for equality e.g. is what the Norwegian Church is doing, what the Norwegian Church is doing, and the question of the extent to which the legislation also covers the Norwegian Church, quite fundamentally in relation to gender equality in Norway. When the Council of Churches says that equality is in line with good Christian ethics, I demand a good reason from the Right Party for why not the Equality Act also applies to the Norwegian Church. In that case, there is not even a theological argument for an exception clause in Norwegian legislation. But I'm glad that pay now has realized that it's not the state church issue that concerns this. One may have a discussion about which parts of the Norwegian law religion should be exempt from, but it is completely independent of whether or not one has a state church system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1215	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1218	The Council of State has fully made it clear that his religious and church policies are based on coincidences. If you define the Norwegian Church as a religious community, and in fact most people do, this religious community must be treated either in a completely consistent way with the others, or you have to refrain from the practice that is now presented. What the Council of State documents with all its reasoning is that there is no principle, church policy or religious policy, present in his reasoning, but it is only a sort of need by elegant rhetoric to try to harmless the Norwegian Church as a religious community by saying that it includes 85 p.m., and then it basically presupposes the right to forget all the principles of religious society, freedom of religion and treatment based on respect for the landscape in which faith develops. From my point of view, this last post from the Council of State was an excellent summary of what I have previously claimed, that there is a breach between the Council of State of Gishe and his predecessors as church politicians in the governments of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1223	Let me first thank you for the compliment on elegant rhetoric. When Trygve Bratteli was asked what reputation he was going to have as Prime Minister, he said that his successor was well to the extent that it could harm his successors. That's probably also what counts when Odd Einar Dørum now boasts both Hernes and others, especially the Leader, up in the clouds. I seem to remember that the church policy debate also at the time was marked by slightly different attitudes and opinions about the councils as well. It is interesting that the representative Dørum believes that there is no principled attitude here. Well, that's a principle attitude. My principle is that I believe that women and men should be equalised in Norwegian society. I believe that gay and heterophilic are to be equated in Norwegian society. It's solid. Then there's another question about religious freedom. I believe that religious freedom is an important principle, but there are limits to religious freedom in every society. For example, we accept. not, and I believe that the representative of Dørum agrees, in the name of religion. Even if you use theological grounds for interception, we say no, it's not acceptable in Norwegian society. Then there will always be a discussion about where to go the boundary between what is “religious freedom” that is not accepted in civil law and what is religious freedom that should be accepted, even if it conflicts with the norms and values that civil society provides for. I mean that limit goes, for example. in the case of discrimination between men and women. I don't think the great Norwegian church community, which includes most of the Norwegian people, should be exempt from the Equality Act, and especially when you say at a church meeting that equality is in line with good Christian ethics. I can't understand why that should be the only reason why the Church should be exempt from the Equality Act when the Church Meeting itself states that it is in line with good Christian ethics. Then you can discuss what is most appropriate to make the process go in the direction you want. As church members, in my view, we have a right and an obligation to participate in that debate. Odd Einar Dørum makes it seem that it is his commitment that has led to Jens Torstein Olsen being appointed. I must remind you that it was this Council of States which appointed Jens Torstein Olsen as a priest in the Majorstua congregation after the Bishops' Council in Oslo sent the matter to us for treatment. Someone thought there was an over-control of the Church. I don't think it was overruled by the Church. I think it was a right decision in line with the values underlying the Norwegian church community. Then, in relation to a principle of religious freedom, one might think that that limit goes somewhere other than where I think it should go, but it's not about whether you have a principle or not. These are different attitudes in relation to where to apply those principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1238	I shall be honest and say that I did not really intend to take the floor in this matter. But after the quite unlikely interpretation that the Council of State has now come with in its last three posts, I'm still forced to do so, because here there are some borderline moves where I think it's necessary to get clear where the Council of State stands. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with the Council of State that gender equality is important, and that equality and non-discrimination between homosexuals and heterophiles are important. But here's one thing that has to separate: who is it that's going to enter and decide whether these points are in a trust society, and where are the limits of what is a trust society? It's supposed to be religious freedom in Norway, says Giske. But at the same time he says that there must be a limit to that religious freedom. It's possible, but I thought with respect to report that the Council of State was very unclear at where that boundary should go. The conclusion I draw from what the Council of State said in its last speeches is as follows: The boundaries of religious freedom go between the Norwegian Church as a threat society and other threat societies. Then we're in on a very dangerous way of thinking. The Council of State has said that it is civil law that should apply. Yes, of course it is. But when religious freedom applies and it is not the state church system that is to justify discrimination, is it correctly understood, as I say, that the boundaries go between the Church and the other faith communities, or is there any other border that the Council of State Gish will set for this? There's a very central question in the debate we're now having.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1250	Once again, I just have to say that I am pleased that we have now been able to move the debate from the issue of over-management in the form of the church system. Nor does the representative Løvik address that thread. Then I think it is probably accepted that we have put that ball to death, and that we now have a discussion – that is in itself a good and proper discussion – about where the boundaries between civil law and religious freedom go. Yes, I believe that the Norwegian Church is in a special position in Norway. It surprises me that the party Right does not agree with that. The Norwegian Church has a completely dominant position in Norwegian society. We've had a state church arrangement for well over 400 years. We've been a Christian country for 1,000 years. Then, over the last decades, we've gradually been given some other religions represented to a stronger and stronger degree, and this leads to new discussions. For example: equality, I believe there is a difference between the Norwegian Church, where the Church meeting has said that equality is in line with good Christian ethics, and some other religious communities, which have different attitudes to it. Then I believe that it is in line with respect for religious communities, it is in line with a room for freedom of religion that we say that the equality law should apply to the Norwegian Church, but that we are waiting for the other religious communities that have different attitudes to it. I think that makes a lot of sense. It has nothing to do with a lack of principleal attitude, but on the contrary, a principleal attitude that we should take into account the objective of equality, both between men and women, between different sexual orientations and the consideration of freedom of religion, while at the same time realizing and taking on board that the Norwegian Church stands and is to stand in a special position in Norway with the position it has for our culture, for our society, for the values and attitudes we have in this society. It must be absolutely fundamental.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1259	I think the last sequence was actually very interesting to listen to. But what surprises me is that the Council of State places the Norwegian Church in a special position because it is a majority church. Then I wonder, are the other religious communities in a special position when they reach a certain percentage limit? Because it's just a percentage limit that's the difference from the reasoning that the Council of State makes. So this percent understanding is going to be a wrong approximation. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party regards the Norwegian Church as a religious community that must be treated in the same way as the other religious communities on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1264	I must admit that I was sitting in an office and heard one of the Council's posts, which made me startled. I think it's amazing that it's possible at all to interfere with the principles of interception in this discussion. There is – and here the Stortinget has recently had a quite fundamental debate on the issue of prayer – a difference between laying down the rules on human rights and the protection of the individual, and talking about the right of religious communities to govern themselves and to do something else, to choose to be independent and not to be regulated by law. So we have reason to believe that we don't want to ban prayer, even if someone living in the neighborhood could have just said that we'd banned it, because we're going to take into account internal circumstances and the possibility of faith. But we have said that when this limits the violation of individual human rights, if there is an abuse against individuals in shelters of some kind of religion, we must, of course, draw different boundaries. To meddle this in a discussion about how much the state should govern the content and employment policy of the Norwegian Church, I think it is incredible, to say the least. This is not about assault, it is about respect for the fact that the Norwegian Church is a religious community similar to the other religious communities we actually have in Norway. To compare: if we, for example, should have imposed on the Muslim population in Norway the Equality Act, I think the case had been brought directly before the International Court of Human Rights for violations of fundamental human rights. The fact that the Council of State cannot see the difference between the Norwegian Church as a religious community and what we are going to regulate in that relationship, and how we behave towards other religious communities, means only one thing, that this hall is soon to have to mannify itself to make a distinction between state and church, so that a council of state of the type Trond Giske may cease to have too strong opinions about the relations with the Church and we can establish the fact that the Norwegian Church is a religious community and not primarily a state matter, as it appears that many of the spokespersons of the Labour Party believe that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1273	It is a pity that Solberg's representative has not followed the whole debate and has gone through the same learning process as the representative's wages, because the state church question is now beginning to be re-examined. The discussion on whether the Equality Act should include the Norwegian Church or the Employment Environment Act § 55 A should include the Norwegian Church is completely independent of the governance of the Norwegian Church. I don't understand that you don't see it. We do not use the Church bodies to impose any employment policy on the Church of Norway, we say that the Church of Norway is to be covered by the civil law applicable to this. Nor can I understand that because a Muslim religious community is opposed to equality between men and women, the Norwegian Church, which says that equality is in line with good Christian ethics, should be exempt from the Equality Act. It's a completely incomprehensible logic to me in that argument. Now I have been instructed by the fraction to stop debating this matter, because we have several issues that will be completed during the morning meeting. But I can just repeat what I've said, that I respect freedom of religion, but we're also going to have a civil law, and there's some kind of boundary there. Because there were some here in the past who gave the impression that in the name of freedom of religion one can really avoid any civil law. Of course you can't, you can't use theology and religious freedom as arguments for some things that we say no to in Norwegian society. Where that limit goes, I fully accept that there might be a discussion about, and so on, this discussion here is really quite fundamental and interesting. But I also have to say that I am really quite surprised at the party Right and in and of myself also about the Christian People's Party in this matter, because this was exactly what I said at the Church Meeting in Trondheim last autumn, and which then received relatively positive reception. But the party Right is of a different opinion and has a much stronger reaction to this than the church meeting had last autumn. And that's interesting in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2523]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1296	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1305	As a case spokesman, I am both proud and happy about what we have done in this setting, especially because of the rather thin basis that the government presented in St.meld. No 20. Apart from two special comments from the Progress Party, the number, the center, the Right and the Progress Party are grouped together. I assume that the minority, the Labour Party and SV, will do their own thing for their point of view, so in my post I will concentrate on the results that the majority have achieved in this matter. And they're not very few. The most important thing we have been given is a powerful boost to vocational education. We've had a strong increase in higher education in Norway over many years, and this is very happy and very positive. The status of academic education and the status of academic education have been established, but the majority of these have been missing is that even those who take a more practical education can gain a status that is commensurate with their education and the job they are going to have. This is why the majority have opted for practical training. In the NOU 2000: 5, which is the basis for the notification, it was proposed that the Berg Committee should establish an independent intermediate level – a vocational school education – organised under its own law and with its own Council structure for the approval of offers. The majority think there is a need for a level of vocational education in Norwegian education, but we don't see this as an intermediate level, but as an alternative to higher education. Such practical and professional rights parallel to higher education will provide a natural and stable place in the Norwegian education system for technical colleges and other practical courses. This could open up to several such educational provision, which could promote the quality of supply, and it would also, in the view of the majority, increase the status of vocational training, give them an identity and more visible vocational training as an equivalent alternative to higher education. I am disappointed that the Workers' Party and SV would not participate in this status lift, but I note that fortunately there are a number who have this view of practical vocational training. A very important part of vocational education is technical disciplines. Technical colleges have been funded and run by the county municipalities. The school has lived a very uncertain existence in recent years, and very many places have become a balancing item in the county budget. The majority believe that this school team is very important, and we want to ensure technical disciplines by giving the state direct responsibility for funding. We want to oblige the government to give at least one offer in each state, but we need to have the flexibility that the recruitment of the many different lines can of course take place from several states. I believe that this school has been lacking for many years, and the majority will now ensure technical disciplines in the financing system we are proposing. Another important point that distinguishes the plurality and the Workers' Party and SV is the view of many people in Norwegian schools. The government would cut and, in part, take away the appeal of several important schools, such as art schools, Bible schools, secretarial training, and some similar ones. The majority think that we need to focus more on the lack of education, and we are rocking through the setting we are debating today, these offers and giving them the opportunity to develop further. The government also provided a strong cut in the study funding for many professional courses without public support. This too has encountered very strong resistance from the school teams and the many students who wanted to be framed – we are talking about several thousand. The plural also goes against these platters. All in all, I thought this has become a very good setting. The majority south here to maintain a shortage of Norwegian business, Norwegian social life, Norwegian youth and Norwegian education systems need for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1331	Today, we are going to decide on education at the so-called intermediate level, i.e. between continuing training and higher education. These have, of course, not found their legal place since Reform 94 was introduced and the new training law became applicable a few years ago. These are mainly technical colleges, art schools, and Bible schools. When Stortinget handles St.meld. No 42 for 1997-98, the reform of competence, it was said that the department wanted to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for legislation and with a financing system for technical training schools. Furthermore, one would also look at other public and private offerings that were at this level. So this is the background for the Berg selection in its time. They submitted their settings one year ago. When it comes to short vocational education after continuing schooling, the Labour Party believes that it is important to facilitate such provision of education within our state colleges and thus do not add up to a permanently owned level between continuing education and higher education, as is the case with a multiplicity. A level of your own can easily lead to blindways and transitions for students who want to progress in the higher education system. In our view, a level of ownership may in the long term weaken the decentralised pattern of education we currently have within higher education. It surprises me that the Center Party is in favour of such a weakening of today's district profile. An exception for an arbitrary intermediate level is the technical discipline. Here I believe the Workers' Party and SV that this offer must be maintained as part of the county's responsibility, but with a separate law of technical discipline. We can quickly learn that today's law has not worked so well. The layer of the scaffolding has been suspended and, in several states, the provision is threatened by closure. The reason is, as I see it, not the unwillingness of the county council, but simply the lack of a financial framework. The Workers' Party proposes that the Technical School Act should contain a guiding clarification that all counties should provide technical training schools. And then one in the next session will evaluate this in relation to the economic aspect. The Labour Party has confidence in what the majority now propose, namely that the State should assume responsibility and the economy, while the county must be charged with operational responsibility. In other words, the plurality sets up a system of the corresponding country line system in continuing training, a system with which we do not have such a good track record today, and which we have actually wanted to remove primarily for the benefit of more nationwide schemes. We know that the offer within the technical disciplines is different in the county municipalities. In many counties, such services are integrated into a continuing school, and through such integration and co-location, the county council alternates on both teacher's and school leadership. This must then be a reasonable use of resources. If the plural is concerned about the future of the school, I cannot understand that they are now adding up to a race that, in our opinion, does not provide a quick solution to the challenges that this school team is facing. In the case of training courses approved only for study funding, the Labour Party believes that such offers must have a minimum of three months in full-time or five months in half-time to be approved. We do not want to impose any professional restrictions on such offers. On the other hand, a self-checking system must be set up to ensure the quality of the training. In addition, those who use student support to take private training need to assess education more closely from a perspective which means that the education represents the relevant competences they are looking for. Finally, I note that the majority would like it to be free for private training provision, by making suggestions to keep the current §3e and §3d of the private school law and also to open up private schools to apply to vocational education. So this is what the case-speaker calls a host of cases. This can be both a costly and a poor system, which can be a requirement for the ministry to manage, and not least a weakening of public supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1350	St.meld. No 20 has a scheme for short-term vocational education after secondary education which is different from what the Christian People's Party wants for the educational offer. We believe that diversity and flexibility are central to the breadth and vitality of the country’s educational institutions — as the case-rapporteur has also stated in a good way. The Ministry considers that an intermediate level between secondary and higher education is unnecessary in the education system. Neither does the Christian People's Party want to call this an intermediate level, but we want a parallel race to higher education called vocational education. However, what is very worrying is the Ministry's justification for not giving room to these training courses. The main message reads that: ‘want to adapt the various offers to the main structure in such a way as to avoid detours, blindways and parallel runs in the education system’. This is not in line with the Christian People's Party's thinking on education policy. We believe that many of the offers covered by the notification have grown in response to needs that have not been covered by the usual training services. In other words, this is not an important supplement, but rather an important one. The so-called Berg Committee was unanimous in its conclusions. With representatives from NHO, LO, KS, private school organisations and other groups, it is striking that the Workers' Party will not take more account of their proposals, including: that the so-called ‘intermediate level’ of education is recognised as an independent level of education and that the provision of education is organised under a separate law. In this way, students will be given greater freedom of choice by opening up more courses, such as: in the field of health care. The Christian People's Party sees no problem that there are a number of offers that do not fit into the usual categories of Norwegian education. We believe it would be wrong to force these offers into already existing levels of education, when the whole point is that these are courses of education that act as an equivalent alternative to higher education. This will improve the status of vocational education and training and give them a clearer identity. We therefore want a separate law for vocational education, which also includes legal rules on technical vocational school. The law must be designed to promote flexibility, diversity and the ability to move rapidly in the provision of education. This is in line with the qualities we think should characterize education. The government's proposal is a scheme that would give a more centralized Education Norway. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Government proposes that Section 3 (e) of the Private School Act on Vocational Education, which is not given in secondary education, should be abolished. This is the Christian People's Party against. Even if the training services already approved under Section 3(e) were to retain the grant as at present, this would prevent new schools from starting, while the schools we already have would not be given the opportunity to renew and develop. The Christian People's Party believes the big message as it exists will not provide sufficient security for the private schools. This is again a reflection of the resistance of the Norwegian social democracy to non-public offers. Here I would have liked to see a development that went in a more progressive direction. Paragraph 3(e) of the Private School Act must be maintained, and it must be made clear that the private school law also applies to vocational school education. In the case of maritime education, it stands in a special position. Certificate training is provided in both technical and higher education schools, including: in Westfold. It is necessary to clarify the division of responsibilities between them and to improve professional cooperation between colleges and colleges. The majority of the Committee will not allow for group shortening of higher education courses on the basis of secondary education, but may be done after individual assessment of real competence. As regards the quality assurance of the offers, the so-called Berg Committee recommended a comprehensive Council structure, which has met with a number of counterclaims. However, quality assurance of offers is important, and therefore proposals should be made for a system to this effect in the context of the legislative proposal. I would also like to point out in the end that the study funding is not limited only to one year of education, as the Government would, but that it opens up for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1381	We all want the best for technical colleges and other shorter vocational education after secondary education. However, there are considerable differences in how the majority and the minority in this position wish to achieve this objective. It is a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Parties that are united on the main part of the principles put in this position. While the minority wants to put much of these education into the higher education sector, the majority believe that today's varied provision of such education will thrive best outside this system, not as an intermediate level of education, but as an actual alternative to higher education. The Progress Party is very pleased that the majority of the Committee wants a future law to promote the flexibility, diversity, the ability to rapidly convert the offers that are currently a special feature of these schools. As stated in the comments in the submission, the Progress Party would primarily like technical vocational schools to be transformed into its own foundations, companies, etc. and is given a very free position. We want future funding through state funding, a so-called ‘student’ or ‘school checks’ model. We also want private schools working in this market to be more equal to public schools in terms of public payments. We record that the majority are partly with us in that the state should be responsible for the funding of the school. How the aid will actually be calculated, we'll get back to it at a later stage. But we will assume from the position of the Berg Committee that one must land on a state funding per. student. I record that the Workers' Party and SV want technical vocational school to remain a responsibility for the county municipality, and that at the same time they claim that you are an avid follower of this school. What needs to be asked, however, is whether it appears that the county council responsible for these offers has done its job correctly. Both in the Telemark County, as the representative Uppebøen Hansen knows well, and in the Buskerud County, my own home country, technical college has become a balancing post that has repeatedly been subjected to proposals for cuts, despite the fact that industry feels a strong need for this type of education. The Progress Party is very pleased that we seem to have a majority in this room to protect the private offerings of shorter vocational education after high school. Similarly, it is the majority to ensure funding for studies that will enable this type of education to survive, as a good alternative to the higher education system. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1402	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1405	The Central Party does not support the proposals of the Ministry in St.meld. No 20, in the case of short-term vocational education after secondary education. We want a training course for people with a professional background who are more in line with the position of the so-called Berg Committee and who have joined the social partners. I am surprised that the Workers' Party chooses such an approach as the message presents. One might understand it from purely economic considerations, but for the Center Party, what is essential is first and foremost what the working life and society need and demand is. This is more important than fitting the structure into an A4 format. The hearing opinions are ready. A desire for the vocational education offer in more areas than the traditional subjects in today's technical vocational school. Health and care professionals need, for example: hurt an intermediate training course. The interest in such offers is increasing. At Gjøvik technical college, as I know well, the demand for this offer is high. The plural setting notes capture such requirements. A vocational school education at the premises of the practical subjects is what the committee has gathered about in this position. I think it's important to be aware of the special school culture that develops at the different levels of education. I have been told that the release from the higher education sector in its time was experienced by many as coming out of a coercion. We must have respect for the fact that equal children play best. In other words, the practical subjects must be allowed to have their own educational pathways at a higher level than upper secondary education. There is therefore a need for a legal framework for this, as proposed by the majority. Furthermore, the majority asks the Ministry to make concrete proposals on how to implement the proposals in the vote. Close cooperation between stakeholders, both in the workplace and at the county level, is a prerequisite for a good and adapted training provision. I believe that the education offices of the State must be able to be used as important dialogue partners in this work. Some would argue that this could be a new and foreign construction. Well, it's got to be. I point out that we have other innovations that have a mix of politicians and representatives of the administration of the board, for example. SND. Here are the county politicians on the board, while the director decides the case! Personally, I am not happy with such a model, but my point is that it must be possible to find other and new solutions to achieve the important goal, namely to ensure the existence of technical colleges and the needs of other schools. So a little supplement, since the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen had a sort of line against me in an article earlier today. I note that if we had followed up the Government's proposal, parts of this level of education would be anchored in the county council, which large parts of the Workers' Party will actually remove! Other education services would be included in state colleges, while others would disappear slowly but surely. So Oppebøen Hansen says he's surprised at the central party's position, and he says that this seems to be a weakening of the district profile. Yes, it may be on paper, but in reality, the majority's proposals will strengthen this level of education and thus strengthen it at regional level. These are crocodile tears from Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. The centre party follows the Berg Committee, as I believe the representative Upbeøen Hansen – as I know him – originally also wanted to do. I actually have some sympathy with Upbeøen Hansen in this matter. The central party agrees with the Ministry's proposal for the location of the industrial schools of the State Traffic Teacher School, the State Diving School and the Norwegian Fire School. When the Centre Party applies to a vocational school level in general, it is natural that this applies to all relevant education courses, including those under the Private School Act. If one were to change the framework conditions for these schools, as the ministry wishes, there would be a loss for Education Norway because there is insufficient capacity in the public system. Besides, it would go beyond the Bible schools, which have long traditions in our country. We don't have such bad advice that we have to cut the subsidies here. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the vote and the majority remarks, which state what the Central Party believes in the areas that I have not affected in my post now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1428	The case rapporteur was both proud and happy about what he had done with this setting. Now I know Petter Løvik as a small and modest guy, but there's no reason to be as modest as he put up. This is not a guarantee of this school type. Rather, on the contrary, I fear that the scheme outlined by the majority actually means the death penalty for the school battle. What lies in the majority position is a strong centralisation. It is to transfer responsibility to the state and create a bastard where the state is to be responsible for the economy, and the county is clearly responsible for something – what is reasonably unclear. These are educational services resulting from local and regional conditions. Around local and regional businesses, needs are emerging. And that is where this kind of need needs to be established, and that is the level at which responsibility has to be established. This means that it must be the county, the local and regional councils, who must be responsible for this type of school and for this educational offer. It is also a little interesting to subtract the lines from the case we dealt with before today. Then one was busy with a unified system. It was important to establish a unified system of the Church's economy. I mean that too. But here you go the other way. Here you spread responsibility between the state and the county council and say that it should be the model. This could be a tragedy for this school, for technical colleges. This is an educational offer in the frontier country between higher education and higher education, and an exciting two-year further training offer is in place for those with professional qualifications. After Reform 94, technical college has lived a somewhat uncertain life. The offer has been pressed, because the county has had problems maintaining it for economic reasons, there have been problems with recruitment, and there has been uncertainty due to a slight change in the admission requirements. All of this has made it problematic. However, I would like to say to the representative Knudsen, when he refers to the fact that the county municipality has not taken this seriously, that the county municipality has done so to a large extent, when we take into account the economic conditions – the starvation of the county municipality that someone has stood for. And compared to what the state has done in relation to college and university, I don't think the county council has so much to be ashamed of when it comes to taking this school battle seriously and facilitating that it may have a future. We in SV outline a model that would clearly have been the best – I am quite convinced – where we say that responsibility should be divided into three. Part of the responsibility for these shorter vocational education courses shall be added to secondary education. We have a good offer, geographically well distributed, and it's a good competence around high school. If they had been given responsibility for parts of this, vocational training provision for up to one year, I think it would have been the rescue for this offer. Then we also say – as I maintain – that we need to expand technical colleges, and we need to create a system that is more dynamic than it is today. This means that technical colleges must take responsibility for two-year vocational education and for more subjects than they do today. We point to IT education, and we point to health. There it would be right to put in a dynamic element, so that today's schools can evolve. And then we say -- and that's important, and that's where we agree with the Government -- that part of this can be added to the colleges. There we have received feedback from several colleges saying that they are ready, they have areas where they would like to develop offers, and then I think we should say yes to these colleges. If we had chosen this model, we would have started tomorrow. But what are we going to do now? Now we're going to make a new law, and we're going to transfer responsibility. We're starting a process, and while we're doing this, there's a danger that this school battle, this offer, more or less, will die for us. And it doesn't deserve it, because it represents an important and good education that there's every reason to take care of and develop. But it doesn't matter to the majority, rather to the contrary. The majority can destroy what is established, precisely because one pulverizes responsibility. And then you try to tell the local term that you're doing too bad a job, we're going to take responsibility for this, and we're going to do a better job. Nothing suggests that this is the case when we see the situation of universities and universities, which is a state responsibility. I refer to the proposal that SV has made, where our model is shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1457	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1460	Left is part of the majority that is behind the vote today. I'll briefly comment on some points in that context. We ourselves feel that the most important thing we do is to accept that there is a level of education — call it a subject — which is not between high school and higher education, which is also not part of the higher education system, but which can be seen as a parallel to the higher education system. And the bill we're asking for should be a protection to allow such a school to develop under orderly conditions and in such a way that you can trust that it's good – it's in the position itself. In my clear opinion, as opposed to the reasoning expressed by the representative, Reikvam, it is also in my view that we are ensuring the technical vocational school. It is not my opinion that there is such a safe port where it is now located. I am rather of the opinion that what we are proposing here, namely that the state should be responsible for funding, that the state, together with the states, should look at the dimensioning, and that the states should be responsible for the practical operational responsibility, is a model that holds – I am convinced of that. I also believe that the important thing we have done here is to ensure the freedom that the private school law now guarantees for a number of different, varied and different schools by refusing to remove §3e, and we also ensure the secretarial lines that now exist, according to §3d. We also make it clear that the private school law must also ensure what we call vocational schools. This gives the Council of State guesses, as I, among other things. had an oral Questionnaire with yesterday, an outstanding chance to, after a thorough and effective procedure, make sure that Nordic Black Theatre's private theatre school can be secured. It wouldn't have, if we hadn't done what we're doing now. Thus, the Council of State has a very good opportunity to live its legislate to defend the fight against racism, the fight for multicultural society – and it avoids an ACE request. So it should be absolutely glittering adapted to the perfect mood in the department to process such an application that is already there, take it out of the pile and get it out of the farm in a proper way. He will delight all those who labor, and he will be able to prove to some that he does not fundamentally dislike private schools. He has basically reserved the dissimilarity to a certain category of them. I've seen the council so that's where he is, we're going to come back to the variations of that misalignment at a later stage. In the case of a couple of other points in the setting, I would like to comment on them briefly. Firstly, it concerns the funding of studies. We don't deserve to do a abbreviation like, among other things. prevent the selection of IT schools that we have received from providing full funding for studies. In my view, the Committee's comments will safeguard this flora. As far as the debate on curtailment is concerned, more have been involved. Of course, we reject a group of abbreviations in the relationship between higher education and higher education. Something may happen with respect to individuals, but here it is important to sort the principles. On this basis, the Left is in agreement with the majority, and behind the position that has been promoted here today. I would like to repeat at the end – it is always a good point in promoting a case – that I sincerely hope that the Council of State will make 1 June this year a happy day and ensure that multicultural Norway lives on in the capital in the form of a private theatre school that ensures Nordic Black Theatre. This gives a unique opportunity for the Workers' Party to be tolerant, multicultural, modern, efficient – and even accept a private school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1478	Just briefly to the previous speaker: I don’t like private schools. On the contrary, we have given approval to a number of private schools also in my Council of State. I'm against extreme private schools, but we'll get back to that debate. But just to repeat my challenge to the representative Dørum from yesterday: we have said from the state that we are going to contribute to Nordic Black Theatre, but we have also challenged the Municipality of Oslo to contribute, and I know that the party Left and the representative of Dørum can play a key role in getting it to. So the challenge has also been sent back. I don't know if he's been jerking it off since yesterday, but there's still time. I have some comments on the present setting. I remind you that the message is a follow-up to the position of the Berg Committee, between the bark and the wood, and deals with education that today can neither be said to be secondary education nor higher education. The Ministry did not wish to establish a separate level of public education between higher education and higher education. The Communication proposed to facilitate the development of new offers in the state higher education institutions that could meet the need for vocational education after secondary education, and also proposed to open up the abbreviated course in higher education for graduates with a degree or other professional competence in higher education. I have noticed that the majority of the committee writes in the vote that it is little won by assuming that today's varied offer of short vocational education will gradually be replaced by offers developed in higher education. The majority believe, however, that a level of vocational education in Norwegian education is needed. The majority do not see this as an intermediate level, but as an alternative to higher education, and believe that a practical and vocational parallel to higher education will provide the technical and other practical education a stable place in the Norwegian educational community. The majority of the Committee also considers it important to ensure that technical colleges continue to provide competent continuing training for persons with professional qualifications, and it is emphasised that the State should be responsible for the financing of this type of school. I have also noticed that the Committee believes that, in addition to being an adequate alternative in itself, vocational education should also allow admission or entry into parts of higher education. As regards curtailment, the Committee considers that this should be possible between equivalent levels. For example, the Committee considers that: technical colleges may provide the basis for abbreviated engineering training, but the majority of the Committee will not allow for the «grouply» shortening of higher education courses on the basis of secondary education. Any curtailment shall be made after individual assessment of the real competence. The proposals are quite far-reaching, and it is difficult to understand the consequences in their full scope of setting up their own vocational school level. At least there can be no doubt that the proposal will have major administrative and economic consequences. However, the Ministry will of course continue to work on the matter, in line with the decisions taken by Stortinget. I have noted that the Committee has no comments on our proposal for further work on carrying out future tasks and forms of association for the three state schools. The Ministry will follow it up, in line with the proposals in the Communication. The Committee asks the Government to submit proposals for the Law on Vocational Education, which includes legislation on technical vocational schooling. It is requested that the law be designed in such a way as to promote flexibility, diversity and the ability to move rapidly to the provision of education. The majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to reconsider the decision to remove private school aid for secretarial training from 1 August this year. Such reassessment will have budgetary implications, as the budget adopted by the Grand Duchy for 2001 requires such liquidation. I must therefore come back to the Storting in order for the majority's opinion to be followed up. I have also noticed that the proposal to remove §3e of the private school law has not been accepted, but that the committee believes, on the other hand, that the government must make proposals which make it clear that the private school law applies also to vocational school education. The necessary legislative changes may be submitted to the Stortinge for treatment in the autumn at the earliest. I would like to come back to the matter then, because I would like to continue as Minister of Education also for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1511	The councils may have their hopes, but a choice will only be made for the autumn – then we'll see what happens. But it is reassuring to hear that he will follow up on the position and what we have come up with in the majority remarks there. I note that the Council of State is in a state of defeat, and it is very much to be welcomed, among other things. the trade union movement and others who were represented in the so-called Berg Committee, who came with a unanimous attitude that was not taken into account. When you then know the state council's position on the matter, it will be exciting to follow the process further in the legal work. The Christian People's Party sees new developments in vocational education. There are thousands of students today taking education through e.g. IT schools, art schools, Bible schools, etc. after high school and there are valuable studies that have been developed in response to needs not covered by regular education provision. The Ministry will adapt the various offers to the main structure ‘in such a way that students avoid detours, blindways and parallel runs in the education system’, it says to read. I am somewhat surprised at such a presentation, and I would like to see the Council of State deepening this very thing. When you know the Council of State's scepticism, for example: private schools, I would like to ask what kind of knowledge views the Council of State is expressing here with terms such as ‘circumventions’ and ‘blind paths’ in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1522	There's been some development of some of these schools that we're talking about. While some of them in the past were high school, i.e. for people who did not have another completed secondary education, some of the schools today have become stronger and stronger schools that include most of their students among those who already have a secondary education. We thought that it would be both practical, appropriate and also resource-efficient to find their place within the higher education system, so that the formal competences it gave could also be gained within the same system, and that if you applied from these schools and entered other higher education, you would not experience that what you had done at the time was not included in the overall formal package. It's possible that we can do it in some way with the model chosen by the majority of the Biggest. At least the goal must be to be able to run so well that you do not have to spend unnecessary time or take turns in your education to reach the desired formal competence. When it comes to skepticism for private schools, I also replied to it in my main post. But we also have to look at the capacity. And it's not exactly like that in Norway today that there's a huge shortage of Bible schools. On the contrary, there are many Bible schools that have free capacity, and it is a desire that at least these schools fill their capacity before we create many more. But of course I will follow the decisions made by Stortingen, also in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1529	The majority of the Committee has very strongly followed up its recommendations in the Berg selection process. Several of those who are in favour of the Berg selection recommendations have said that what we've done here is actually a significant improvement. And most of what we've done is positive compared to what the hearing authorities have said we should do. Although, at all important points here, there was a defeat for the Government in this matter, I would like to ask the Council of State: is it not possible to be so clear that one looks at the status increase that the majority provide the vocational education? Doesn't it look like something positive? Is not the grips we have taken here, in place when it comes to saying that practical education is an equivalent – not an equal, but an equivalent – alternative to higher academic education, and that we take the consequences of it and give them a place to be, a place to evolve and opportunities to get what they want? And when the council says that he is not against private schools, but against extreme private schools, and then will try to stop §3e and §3d in private schools, as he does in this message, I also want to ask: Is it not possible to be so generous that one says that in our society we should have room for the lack of art schools – many places fantastic institutions – Bible schools and secretarial education provide? Can't the Council of States be so clear that he puts a little aside his prejudices against everything that smells of something private, and says that we need these educations, which are actually very much in demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1541	I'll be as clear as I can possibly be. When I referred to private schools, it was neither art schools nor Bible schools. This was the debate we are having in a relatively short time about another type of school – the ACE schools – which is based on an imported American pedagogy that I think is quite extreme. But that's what we're going to do. I do not understand that our model – where we said that we also wanted to keep a vocational education and call about it – that we wanted our ordinary colleges around the country to take more responsibility for these practically oriented courses, is a decrease in status compared to the proposal of the majority in the UK. I fully accept that with that proposal you mean to give a status boost to the practical education that this is about, by giving them a special status. But I don't realize that in a way, it's a bigger status increase than saying that they're completely equal, that they're included in our higher education system in the ordinary way -- if you want the same status, at least that really has to give them the same status. So in relation to the status, I don't think the proposal that the ministry has made is anything behind what the majority of people have come to. On the contrary, I believe that separating them and saying that this is something special, it's something different, it's something that's to be distinguished from what's normal higher education, maybe works in the opposite direction to the status designation and can make the races that are going to go from this type of education difficult, for people who want to take further higher education within the ordinary course of education. But I hope we can find solutions to that, also with the model that the majority has chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1548	The Council of State may have registered that the undersigned represents the state of Buskerud. In this state, the economy of the county is very tight. This includes, among other things: led to a decision by the county council on severe cutting and closure of technical vocational school offers. So a good part of the offers will be gone from the harvest if you do not get a government acquisition – that is, funding. I don't think Busherud is the only place where it is. I understand, of course, that it will take some time to establish an update of the law, a new financing system and other administrative structures according to this position which is being addressed today. What concerns is what happens to the technical colleges in the transition phase between today's system and future state funding. It would be pointless if we now, due to a few months or a period of a year or two between two types of organisation, would get a closure of an offer that would be very difficult to rebuild. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the existing technical vocational school offer is maintained – preferably at the present level – pending the establishment of new legislation, new financing arrangements and new administrative structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1559	I do not fully recognize the reality description given in relation to the county councils' commitment to the technical college. On the contrary, I feel that the vast majority of county councils want to maintain the technical vocational school, want to make such an offer, but that the problem is that there are few applicants for that offer. It's probably due to a lot of things. It may be due to unclear information, it may be due to uncertainty about the school's future. But both the majority and the minority in the committee, representatives of the various parties, have said very clearly that they want a future for that school. Hopefully, it also makes the school more candidates, and that's the most important foundation for advancing the school. Then I would say that the second important foundation for advancing the school, also in the period before we find new financial instruments, is a good county economy. And then I think the representative Knudsen should go to his own alternative state budget and see if that kind of budget is the safest way to lay the groundwork for the county council to offer a good offer of a technical college. I want to contribute to that school team being maintained. I hope that the basis of the application provides an opportunity to do so, and I hope that the county councils will take that responsibility until we find other financial instruments. But just to say that, when it has been said earlier in the debate that the majority have taken account of the hearing bodies, not so many hearing bodies have suggested that this should be a school battle that is state-run and state-funded. It's a model that might be a little different than the ones that came from different teams. But I accept that's the model you've landed on, and of course we'll work on those lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1568	At first I want to say that today it really feels as if the Workers' Party has a love-hate relationship with the Center Party in general and to me in particular. But I can live well with that as long as I know that the group of the Center Party and I have landed on, are the right positions for us. There is today a great need to recruit people for health and care at all levels, including at the level we are talking about today. It is important to provide motivation for both basic and continuing training in the different directions. And this middle-class education could, in my opinion, relieve other groups of health care tasks differently. Then I refer to the Prime Minister's great efficiency project, where he says that doctors should do what they can, and not sit and move paper, the nurses should do what they can, etc. I agree, and that is why I think it is a good idea to set up an intermediate education for the health and care professions in the sector we now have for us. Does the Council of State not see that this can be a proper step in recruiting new ones for this sector in order to meet the high demand and make the public sector more efficient by using the relevant labour force in the various areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1575	I fully share the representative of Tingelstad's view that there is a great need here, also in the public service for continuing education and the type of schools that this is about. But that's exactly why it was a goal in the message that we put forward, that the state colleges that we have around the country should also benefit from this demand. I think it would have been an important foundation to ensure the decentralised higher education structure that we can be proud to have in Norway. I fear that if you channel very large parts of this demand into another type of schools and other offers, the basis for those colleges will also be weakened. I think it's a shame the Center Party couldn't be part of that thinking. The representative Tingelstad says we have a love-hat relationship with the Center Party. No, we're pretty much in love with the Center Party. The centre party is close to us in a lot of cases, but it's not always so easy to get wise on the centre party, because one day they make decisions that they'll have incarceration in private schools, while the next day they'll have liberalisation in private schools, when it comes to the primary school debate. In this debate, too, I have a little feeling that even though the Central Party says that they want a tightening of the development in relation to private schools at all levels, as was said at the national meeting, they are opening up here to an extended use of the private school law in relation to approving more private schools. We love the Zenter Party's position when they're near us, but we don't like them that well when they go in the opposite direction. And when they do both parts of the same thing, it gets a little confusing for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1582	If the majority position is to be implemented – and it should, as I see it, the majority – it means a strong centralisation. There's no doubt about it. This means shifting decision-making authority from regional policy level to central. There can be no doubt that that is what is happening. And as I said in my post, I fear that this can also lead to an attack on the education system itself, on the school team itself, for there is no reason to believe that the Storting should feel some strong commitment to this school battle. But I'm going to deal with another matter with the Council of State. In his message, which I at least agreed a while on the way, it is said that the colleges will be given greater responsibility for this level. We know that several colleges have taken this responsibility and are developing a training offer. We can take a trip to Nord-Trøndelag, and there we see that there are exciting things going on in the frontier country between high school and high school, where they're going to add an education offer to the university. Then an important fundamental question arises, and it goes on study competence. In order to be admitted to higher education, a student must have a study qualification, and per year. Today it is defined as – now I am talking about them under 25 years old – that you need to have a general course of study and five subjects from a general course of study with a certain level of professional immersion. Does the Council of State agree with me that we need to have a system in which the study competence is linked up to the completion of secondary education, irrespective of the direction of study, regardless of professional immersion, and that completion of secondary education, if any, should be the subject of study competence, if we are to acquire a system in which the university should take greater responsibility for that part of the education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1592	As from the autumn of 2001, as the representative of Mr Rikvam knows for sure, we have introduced a system of admission to real life competences for those over 25 years of age. Fortunately, the interest has been very great. Nearly 400,000 applicants have applied for admission on the basis of real skills, very many in professions where we need more people, among other things. The nurse's profession, so it has proved to be successful. And the tests we've had also show that the people who have come with real skills have good results. It may be interesting to take a closer look at what the representative, Mr Requam, says, that if the universities are to take responsibility for some of these courses – among other things. This applies to continuing training for people with vocational training — it is also necessary to regulate the entry rules in relation to the courses on that basis. And you might want to think about that a little bit more. But what we've been concerned about when we open up real competences is that entrance to higher education in the form of real skills does not have to be an alternative for young people to take secondary education. In a way, we don't have to make a shortcut to higher education for those who opt out of high school when they're 16, 17, or 18 years old. We want it to be the main entrance for young people to higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1604	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1609	I really didn't intend to extend the debate, but I felt that on my reply to the Council of State I didn't get a clear answer. Instead, it began to talk about the progress of the party's budget proposals in the area of the local economy, etc. It is not the draft budget of the Progress Party that has been adopted, either in this Chamber or in the Buskerud County Commune, which I talked about, that is actually the Workers' Party, and it is the Workers' Party that is suspensive at technical vocational school in the Buskerud County Commune. The decision that exists in this county is to stop the intake if you do not receive state aid. So my question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the existing technical vocational school offer is maintained, preferably at the present level, pending the establishment of new legislation, financial arrangements, administrative structure, etc., and then ensure us, among other things. in Buskerud against the failure of the Buskerud Arbeiderparti's wish to cut down to technical vocational school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1616	I listened with great interest to the State Council's statement on the Workers' Party's emotional life in hate and love. And what I got out of that statement was that the Workers' Party always loves those who agree with them, or at least don't have dissenting opinions or think differently. That's, to the extent that it defines love and hate. But I'm a little concerned when the Council of State at the same time answers the questions he's given about the attitude towards private schools in this area that we're dealing with now, by introducing a kind of distinction between what's going to be extreme, or what's going on, on the one hand, and everything else on the other, because it's really just a variation of the same distinction. For who is it that defines what is extreme at all times? Well, it's obviously the Working Party. However, the private school law we have, with the provisions relating to this type of school as well, has a clear purpose paragraph that states that the purpose of the law is to ensure that those who wish to establish private offers – as long as they comply with the rules in force – are treated in a non-discriminatory manner and that they are treated so as to allow predictions of what is allowed to offer with State aid and what is not. Let me also add that I have registered a lot of statements from the Council of State in interviews over a quite long period of time. There he has absolutely not introduced any distinction, but mentioned private schools, in general and without any restrictions of any kind, in a distinctly negative way. Last, this was done in the Municipal Report two weeks ago, where the Council of State made a whole series of unspecified and unreserved claims that private schools in general are a threat both to the common school and to the Norwegian community, and that they do so per year. definition promotes values such as intolerance and xenophobia. It is a step forward if the Council of State now wants to demarcate itself, so that there are no more private schools in general that represent this, but only the few private schools that the Council of State at any time chooses to define as ‘extreme’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1625	Two short comments at the end: The prayer Hansen operated all the time with the interplay between levels, as if that's what the plurality is talking about. I hope it is clear to Uppebøen Hansen and others in the Labour Party that we are not talking about an intermediate level, but about a status increase through a parallel level of higher academic education. So to the Council of State Gist: the Council of State claims that the status I called for for practical education could also be achieved with the Council of State proposal, because part of this is to be incorporated into higher education. Yes, a part of this, but what about technical disciplines? It is not suggested at that level. On the contrary, it is proposed to be at a municipal level, a level associated with further training. What about the private offerings? Several of them should also have the ability to enter the vocational training that the Council of State will actually reverse or eliminate, as appropriate. Instead of having that doubt, we're trying to put them together in a parallel path in relation to the conical spheres. Then the council also says that there will be a very difficult model we set up, with state funding and county management of technical colleges. I can't see that problem. The alternative, if we were to have government funding, would either be to put this under the pillars – and we would keep to the distinction between practical and academic – or it would be to build up a state governance system at a regional level, which I don't believe would be economically or otherwise, in any way be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President shall record that the scheduled time for this morning's meeting is now up. [[See page 2525]] The President noted that it was on the Committee's behalf in Case No. 3 has been proposed for discussion with a framework of 45 minutes. In view of the fact that the Storting will continue its negotiations tonight, the normal procedure would be that the meeting was interrupted at that time. However, the President would ask that the debate on substance be accepted. 3 is carried out, under the clear condition that the speakers contribute to the extension of time beyond the regulatory period more than is strictly necessary. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1654	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1661	Ibsen's figure The button maker has always fascinated me, and this display is still getting new pages. He may even be present in this debate, because it is not just the casting of new education buttons? If, against assumption, not all of them become equally acceptable, they can just be flipped in the same form. That's the form we're going to talk about today, the teacher training. Andy Hargraves wrote in his book «Teaching and School Culture» that today's teachers teach tomorrow's community citizens with yesterday's methods, and that's a thought-seeker. This is actually happening all over the world, so Norway is not a phenomenon in that way. The question will then be whether we should continue with that. We are now dealing with a case concerning the guided choice of English in the fourth year of general teacher training. Language and language understanding are important in a globalised society under constant development. Most of the ICT-oriented industry, including training, is in English. The same is true of several other high-tech education and schemes. Everyone is based on the English language. Just because they're developed in English-speaking countries. Furthermore, we know that there is a particular shortage of realists in Norwegian society, and then we have to be aware of how dependent we as a small country are on foreign development. This makes language training for our children a high priority area. A tied choice is not a choice, does not put people to the test and does not make them responsible in relation to the choices that need to be made at any time. The bound election will also ensnare the entire academic environment. This will in the long term make teacher training vulnerable and much narrower. The system of tied elections is new, and we already see that guided elections do not result in more students choosing English in the fourth year, as the intention was. It is also important to note that the Central Statistical Office has asked teachers how they assess their own professional competence in the subjects in which they teach. Teachers who teach English have assessed more than others their own professional perception of being above average — what now had to happen. It's also interesting to notice that more than 90 pst. teachers who teach English would like to continue to teach English. This observation is pretty interesting, but I'm not going to draw it anymore. Freedom to choose in combination with responsibility and consequences for your choice is a healthy principle. Harry Emerson Fosdick says – translated – something like freedom is always dangerous, but it's the safest thing we have. And that's right. It will quickly show whether the individual student in teacher training is responsible and conscious of the consequences of his own choices that the future job really needs. Freedom is used in this context to make and develop the necessary changes that this training must have quite soon. It is therefore with great tension that we are waiting for the notice of teacher training announced in 2002. In addition, there are several areas where there is a strong emphasis on the content and need for changes in teacher training, areas where, in the view of the Progress Party, both basic competence and depression are needed. I've mentioned real science before. Furthermore, we must be open to the need for specialisation among teachers at earlier times than before, and this will affect general teachers. Furthermore, there is a very great need to prevent and deal with bullying and violence in schools. This phenomenon that we kind of don't accept is actually worse than foot-and-mouth disease. Now we have to start taking this seriously and make sure that it is focused on education. Most teachers today will meet these challenges immediately after completion of education. We must also take care that a large number of children do not master the reading and writing skills when they leave primary school. This problem seems to peak, especially for children with a foreign background. This will prevent the development of children. It is important that these conditions are safeguarded through a teacher training that is good enough, and not just through project work, as is the case, among other things. in Oslo today. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, will thus recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1691	I'm just going to use a fraction of my speaking time. There are two reasons why the Right cannot support the proposal for a micro-reform of teacher training to be treated. One is that it is generally not advisable to make changes to schemes which have not yet entered into force and in which case no experience has been gained. It's in general strange. The second and more important reason is that everyone agrees that there must be a very fundamental investigation into reforms in teacher training, and then it is unfortunate to make small-time checks of this kind immediately prior to the assessment that everyone agrees on is necessary. It is gratifying that this attitude also shows that there is a growing understanding of the proposal made repeatedly by the Right on a differentiation in general teacher training, so that students are invited to choose at an early stage whether they wish to specialize in the direction of childhood or in the direction of intermediate or in the direction of youth. That's what teacher training needs to be reformed. This microreform doesn't need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1702	On behalf of the center parties, I'm going to promise to be as short as it's supposed to be at all. I know it's more than us who's been busy today, I think the council also has a tough program for the rest of the day. I will therefore be brief and just say why we do not support the Government's proposal now. It's simply because there's going to be a full review of teacher training next year. And when we know that the first coal is based on teacher training after the new model now, we think we have time to wait until the next year before we decide what this structure should be like. That is why we have a special comment and do not support the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1707	This is not a reform, it is an adjustment. And that's a necessary adjustment, because there are too many strong bonds as it is today. We have tried to raise a slightly larger debate here; we have not reached that point. I would try to raise the debate about today's teacher training, with the strong central management you have here. I'm sorry that the other parties wouldn't be willing to go into this. We have one proposal that I hope the Council of State will at least take along, and that is what is going on in pre-school teacher training. Pre-school teachers, who take the fourth year to gain the skills to teach at the small school level, have a one-year training course with 20 weights of practical and educational work aimed at the small school stage. It's too many pre-school teachers a repetition of what they've had in the past in education, and here we have to adjust. I would therefore just recommend to the Council of State to look at this. It lies as far in the same street as English, with the bonds. I'm going to end with this, but before I do that, I'm going to take up our two suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29.ana.ud866e1716	The President has then recorded that Rolf Rekvam has taken up the proposals of the Socialist Left Party. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President hereby cancels this morning's meeting, and a new meeting is scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2526]]
