ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e66	The called alternates, for Oslo Kai Ekanger, and for Nord-Trøndelag County Marit Arnstad, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e84	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e98	St.meld. No 32, Evaluation of the subject of Christianism with religious and life views, is a response to the task that Stortinget gave to the department when the CRL subject was introduced. A common field of knowledge on Christianity, other religions and outlook on life is important to provide students with a common knowledge, culture and value base. The trade shall contribute to the understanding, respect and dialogue across the limits of faith and life. This shall provide a good basis for understanding and developing tolerance towards different thinking and believers. The goal is to develop harmonious environments where people show respect for each other. Lack of knowledge often creates uncertainties that can quickly develop into intolerance, which we have unfortunately seen tragic examples of. The subject has been and is controversial, especially in the case of life-vision minorities. Oslo's in a special position. I have noticed hearing statements that say that it will be almost impossible to create a subject with which everyone is absolutely satisfied, based on the particular nature of the subject. I think we have to live with that if we want a common subject, and there are a lot of people, not to say a very large majority, who want to. The government proposes to change the name of the subject of Faith and Life’s View. The majority do not support this, but will adjust today's name to Christianity, religion and life views. At the same time as KRL is maintained, knowledge is highlighted for all the disciplines. The Committee has noted that there is disagreement among the consultative bodies on the name of the subject, but there is no clarity as to what the subject should be called. The Ministry proposes that the quantity of substances should be reduced and this is in line with the evaluation reports. According to the Department, the reduction is to be highest in the Christian section. However, the Committee believes that the quantity of substances should be reduced in relation to the weight of the subjects in the curriculum today. Local adaptation of education is important, where differentiation must be a central measure for adapting education. This is particularly important at the lowest stages. The majority, all except the Workers' Party and the SV, believe that education in the first few years should be able to focus on the religions and views of life represented in each community. This, of course, does not mean that teaching material should be omitted, as some might have perceived it, according to media headlines. The CRL evaluation has been based on how the education in the subject has been conducted, how the exemption rules have been practised and on what conditions parents have been given to enforce the parental right in the subject. All these assumptions are interdependent. The way in which the subject is presented and the way in which the teaching is done can just lead to a greater sense of reason for applying for exemption. Many teachers respond that they put the teaching up in such a way that it will not be subject to exemptions. If this goes beyond the selection of subject matter, so that some of the knowledge material is omitted, it is wrong. I think that poor training of teachers can be some of the reasons. Many teachers have simply felt uncertain. Therefore, continuing training is one of the most important measures to improve the situation. The evaluation reveals that there has been too little information about the subject and about the statutory right of exemption. The exercise of the right of exemption varies greatly. These relationships have led to poor cooperation climates between home and school in several places. The Communication therefore proposes several concrete measures to improve this, and the Committee is essentially in favour of them. An important prerequisite is to ensure that all parents understand the information provided by schools. The Committee stresses that dialogue between home and school needs to be improved in order to ensure more equal treatment of exemption rules. We underline this, just like what's in the message. The major issue of conflict has been and is the limited right of exemption. The majority of the Committee is in favour of the extension of the limited right of exemption but points out that the practice needs to be more equivalent and more liberalised. There are exemptions from activities that may be perceived as infringing, which are grounds for exemption. However, if there is doubt as to what might be offensive, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party believe that it is the municipality that decides whether an exemption should be granted. Here, the minority believes that it's going to take a lot of time to try out the parents. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party believe that the right of exemption should be extended for the small school stage, but it will not, therefore, be a majority of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. I believe that our comment to some extent would have met hearing bodies who want full exemption. At the same time, perhaps one could cope with the potential for increased demand for more fresh oils. I have to admit that I am a little surprised that the Progress Party in this case does not take more into account parental rights. Then the message has outlined that a new subject plan will be drawn up with the corresponding teacher's guide. It's very important. But as I said before, the most important measure is enough to improve training, and then it needs more resources than what is contained in the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e137	I want to start by commending the case spokespersons for a well-implemented work, which has resulted in a large deal on many important, fundamental issues in this matter. But in two important areas, we separate layers. It's the first when it's the element of Christianity, that's the weighting, and the second is the name of the subject. We know that many organisations want a standardization of the amount of substances in the five disciplines, i.e. approximately equal to the weighting of the three parts of Christianity in relation to other religions, ethics and philosophy. The Labour Party proposes a standard of 50/50, which is in line with the investigation carried out among parents. When proposing the same weight as today's curriculum, the centre game along with the right is not a proposal that meets the desire for a more common subject. Then I am afraid that the subject is difficult to be accepted by most, with the result that there will still be a great desire for exemption from part of the subject. The evaluation that has been made shows that the three parts of Christianity have about 55 p.m. of the average teaching time of the subject today. In addition, we also know that there are considerable local variations. Does not the representative of Tingelstad see that it is important that Christianity and the other religions and the way of life should be qualitatively similar in teaching in order to be calm about the subject? When it comes to the name of the subject, it has, in our opinion, great symbolic value. We believe that a still CRL abbreviation as it will be, as the plural suggests, will be seen as a little bit inclusive. Is this a moment that the representative has assessed? Our proposal for the name Faith and Vision of Life, which is also supported by the Centre's own Value Commission, is in many ways a neutral name. What is the reason why this name is not accepted by the representative of Tingelstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e150	Thanks for the rose. It's not that often a get it when you're in the Storting, so it does good. I think it has been interesting and nice to work with this setting. Not least at the beginning of the process, I thought this would be a very good run, because there's no recording here, so this is going to be quick and nice. Now it turns out that more input has been made during the process, and the setting has become more thicker than the starting point. But now leave it. It's true that there's a lot of consensus, and I'm very happy about that, because we're very busy having a common subject. In the public unit school, which is a large majority to retain, it is precisely important to have such an arena in order to disseminate knowledge about the different religions. As far as the place of Christianity is concerned, the representative Uppøen Hansen stressed that I and the majority would not reduce its entries. Then I must remind you that we left a Christian field of 100 p.m. Christianity education before L97, and where we had life's point of view next door. I think there would have been even greater concern about the subject if we were to go further down on the subject of Christianity. I think that when we have a cultural nation that has for a thousand years based its entire social structure on Christianity, we must be able to accept that it has the dominant place. Then Uppebøen Hansen uses the expression "qualitatively equal" – yes, what is it now – and that it is "small inclusive" when the subject is called KRL. I just don't understand that. In the case of «qualitatively similar», it is clear that the school should disseminate real knowledge of the different parts of the subject. If that's what's in the term "qualitatively equal," I can't believe that there's something wrong with the comments of the majority. Then I have to come back and answer it with the name, because I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e163	Let me start by agreeing with the first replicator on one point, and that is in terms of recognising the work that the rapporteur has done to bring together the broadest possible consensus. There's one point I would like to put my finger on and ask questions about. The rapporteur said, quite rightly, that some of the issues relating to exemption are due to poor information; the evaluation seems to provide a basis for this. But my question is, what is it because of when information is bad? This may be due initially to two things: that what you need to inform about is not clear enough, or it may be due to the fact that the effort to inform is not good enough. Probably in this case it is a combination, but for my part I would consider it so that it is the first reason that is clearly the most important. The condition for the success of information is that the message to be informed is clear. And the problem with this subject is that the compromise reached in 1997 on the right of exemption was fundamentally unclear. And then no one – I had just said – can solve the problem if the message itself is unclear and can be perceived in different ways. Therefore, my question is: does the rapporteur and the Central Party not see the need to clarify what should be the basis of the exemption, in a clearer way than what is in the suspension? More specifically: does not the rapporteur see that an attempt at a two-part division of the teaching material, such as: Right has gone too far in the configuration, would you like to help solve this information problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e172	Yes, the evaluation reports clearly state that there has been too little information. There has been too much information, and there has been too much dialogue between school and home. There are many things that can cause it. I think I'm going to give the replicator the right idea that it hasn't been that good, it might not have been clear enough what one should be informing about. But what's absolutely certain is that the subject was able to do it a little too quickly. And I have a good conscience from the point of view of my own party, that we might in due course have something to do with the reform, because there was very little time between the adoption of the subject and the provision of training and information. We've seen that the result is that teachers have actually been so careful that parts of the substance have been omitted. In addition, when important target groups, such as parents from minority communities, have not understood the information because of language difficulties, it is extra bad. Wages and salaries point out that the compromise was fundamentally unclear. So that's the payroll and the right view. For my part, I was very pleased that we reached such a compromise, because it was so important to get to a common subject. But I also see that it's a problem if you can't give the right of exemption a little more liberality, and that's what we've been into in the position, especially for the small school class. The centre party belongs to the majority who still want a limited exemption, because we have to keep the common subject. If a two-part division of the subject, as the right says in the setting, and goes in for, had been a better development for the common subject, I am not sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e179	I note that the Central Party is surprised at the position of the Advance Party in this matter. I can state that a central consideration for us is the consideration of integration, especially with regard to those who come from cultures that are distant from our own. Christianity is a central part of Norwegian society and our history. We see that the integration policy in Norway has almost failed. There are deep canyons in many places between immigrants and ethnic Northmen. Some keywords are crime, violence, unemployment, distrust and frustration. I am convinced that one of the main reasons for this is that immigrants know too little about Norwegian conditions – that they are getting too little information, and that they have become too little involved in our way of life, our history and our religion. Exclusion of students from a subject that can actually help to give immigrants an understanding of our religion and cultural heritage must be a fundamental flaw in integration. This is also the background to my wish to be very restrictive with regard to exemptions. I note that the Central Party has moved on to another line, that we want liberalisation in the area of exemptions. I think this is a bear service to immigrants, and especially to distant cultures. Does not the representative of Tingelstad see any problems in relation to integration, in case of increased exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e189	The progressing party says they're very concerned with integration. As I read the comments from the Progress Party here, I feel that they are well on the way to want an assimilation, not integration, that one should somehow force those who have a different view of life or religion, to be so good at taking up Christianity. Although this is not a field of study or religion, but clearly a subject of knowledge, I think the comment from the Progress Party that there is no need for a practice with a greater degree of exemption is quite strong. It was underlined by the representative Knudsen that the Progress Party is in favour of restrictive exemptions. I think you should take a look at Eidsvoll's place, where we see that there are demonstrations for religious freedom. I feel a very respect for what's going on out there. My goal is that we should get to a subject that is so well arranged and that has such good peer service and up-to-date teachers that all parents can safely send their children to such an education. It's a long way to go before we can do it, but it's an overall goal. Then I have to use a second or two to answer why we still go in for the name CRL and not the name Faith and Vision of Life. As soon as I heard the name Faith and vision of life, and also when I read it from the various instances that have spoken, I thought that there is no training of faith. The signal, as it sounds in the ears of me and others, can quickly be misunderstood as if we are now going to conduct faith training. That's the main reason why I think we shouldn't go for that name now. What it's going to be in the future, we can't prescribe, but for me, it's also very important that we have the word "Christianity" as a basic element in the trade name.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e201	When the Storting established the CRL subject in 1997, some important commitments were made. The first was that the subject should be an ordinary schooling course that was anchored in goals and guidelines in the curriculum. The second was that the subject should provide knowledge of religions and views of life, not training in a particular belief. And the third was that the most likely would be participating in a common training course in order to be involved in building a common cultural and value base. The store also agreed that the subject would be evaluated after a time, where one should also see how the exemption was exercised. Here, too, the Stortinge gave rise to two important commitments. The one thing was that one should keep to the training law § 1-2, i.e. the so-called purpose paragraph. The second was that Norway’s international obligations in relation to religious freedom, parental rights, etc. should be ensured in the best possible way. I want to start by saying that Norway is increasingly becoming a multicultural society, with different religions, different life views and different senses of value. It is a major political challenge to establish meeting places where a person acquires common knowledge of different ways of life and religions, etc. The ball and the CRL are a unique meeting place in such a way as a common venue for all children and young people. Solid knowledge of the lack of beliefs and views of life and of the historical and current role of Christianity in Norway should not, in our opinion, be possible to choose from. As a result, we need to balance the concerns of our international commitments with the concerns of our goals of a common learning venue and the right of children to knowledge. In 1996-97, the Court ruled that Erik Møse raised the question of the right to freedom of movement. His conclusion was that it was probably safest with a general right of exemption, but that he could not see that the limitation of exemptions would be contrary to the conventions. The broad evaluation that has been carried out shows the following: There is a broad consensus, both among statesmen and minority groups, that there should be some common teaching in the subject, and that children should learn respect and understanding for others at risk. The vast majority of parents – regardless of life’s vision – think that the subject works well for the children. There are more elephants that are positive to the subject than there are elephants that are negative to the subject. Most teachers say that they are tempted to teach so that all aspects of life are produced as equivalent. In accordance with their intention, they are tempted to limit the number of exemptions. There are monthly local variations in the exercise of the right of exemption. In many places, the information on subjects, courts and exemption rules is very deficient, and of course it has the greatest impact on the minority of threats and life. Many think that the amount of material in the subject is too large, and that the subject has become too academic. There are large local variations in the weight of the different parts of the subject, i.e. too much Christianity in some places and too little Christianity elsewhere. It varies from almost 0 pst. up to 100 pst. The Oslo study shows almost the same image as the rest of the country, but the variation width is larger, and several elephants have partial exemptions, about 9 pst. in Oslo versus 5 pst. on a national basis. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a common subject in this area. Therefore, the subject needs to be adjusted and adapted in order to be able to participate as much as possible. In other words, a curriculum needs to be developed that removes the need to apply for an exemption. There are most organizations listed here. Furthermore, the statutory right of exemption must be better enforced in practice. If one were to go in for a full exemption, one in my opinion and the party's opinion would undermine the goal and possibilities of a life-viewed subject. How should one ensure that the limited exemption becomes better? The Labour Party wants to do this by giving students over 15 years of age and parents a manual with information, where you can add additional text in several languages, so that you can understand it. A standardised form should also be developed to facilitate the search for exemptions, including: without justification requirements. Here I would like to add that the last comment on page 5 of the setting, where the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are united on a plural note, is inconsistent with what the Workers' Party thinks in previous comments. In the case of an incursion, which is called, we haven't noticed the word 'not' in the third line of the comment. The use of this word gives a completely different meaning from that of the Working Party. In this context, I would like to clarify that the working party's attitude is that the default message, which does not require a reason, should provide a real possibility of exemption from the part(s) selected on the form. It shall not be necessary to justify a notification of exemption aimed at the participation and pursuit of religious activities. In other words, the error has occurred that the Workers' Party is together with the Progress Party on this comment, and I will of course assume the debt that has happened in a hectic interview. In addition, the Labour Party is committed to revising the curriculum and reducing the amount of material for the small-scale school. The CRL profession has five subjects, and the Government proposes equal weighting of the three parts of Christianity on one side and other religions and ethics/philosophism on the other. Today's studies show that the distribution of teachers' time spent on the subject is on average about 55 pst. on the parts of Christianity, 23 p.m. on other religions and about 20 p.p. on ethics/philosophy. However, it is also shown that there are large local and individual variations. Minor amounts of substances and a standardisation of the amount of substances in the five disciplines have been sought by many organisations. A standard of 50/50, as proposed by the Labour Party, also seemed to be in good agreement with parents’ wishes. The studies show that 40 pst. of parents wants Christianity to have half the teaching period, 30 p.m. Want more Christianity, and 30 pst. wants less Christianity. So to one of the other big issues, the question of the name of the subject. We could have made suggestions about e.g. to call the subject Christianity, religion and vision of life. Such a change would remove the problem that today lies in the name of Christianity knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation, which can easily be perceived as other religions and life-views being a form of additional substance to Christianity. When the Workers' Party landed on the name Faith and Vision of Life, it was one of the alternative names pointed to by the Value Commission and the Cooperation Council of the Religious and Life Vision Society. We are only allowed to take note that this will not get any plurals today. Finally, a little bit about the purpose paragraph. Thus, according to the Constitution of Storting, it will not be proposed. The KRL subject is a knowledge subject similar to the other subjects in the school; in other words, the subject has no special status in relation to the purpose of the training. I see that there may be a lot of reasons for modernising this paragraph so that it can better reflect multicultural Norway in relation to religion and life's vision, but it will be an assessment we have to take in the next round when we're going to review a larger evaluation of L97.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e260	In fact, the background to this communication was the three- to four-year debate on the subject’s content and the exercise of the right of exemption. One wanted an evaluation of the subjects after three years. What the evaluation shows is that there are variations between schools. I'm not so surprised by the variations, both because the teachers have had slightly different approaches to the teaching of this subject, and because the religious image of the different communities is different. There have also been variations in the exemption provisions. In the Christian People's Party we see that there have been some problems especially with the smallest students. We have therefore advocated greater liberalism in the practice of the exemption provisions at the early childhood. Furthermore, we have seen the need for better information and cooperation between school and home. We have also seen that the school's assessments of exemptions vary a lot. Now we feel that the government is kind of tightening up the right to exemption. With the contribution of the representative, Opbebøen Hansen, it was also a little confusing what the Workers' Party is actually going for now, because one has now discovered that the Workers' Party has entered the wrong remark in the setting in case of an incurrency. My question to the representative Upbeøen Hansen is a little bit about whether this incuria also applies when it is said that flexibility needs to be exercised. When is such flexibility to be exercised? Is it an incurrency also when you talk about it being the municipality that should have the decisive word? My question is also: how far should this flexibility go? In the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is a great deal to be done before the school examines the parents' reasons. I need some clarification after what was stated in the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e273	I understand that it is confusing when I have now said in my post that it is being changed on a plural note. Unfortunately, this can happen, and it is a shame that it happens, but it is important to fix the problem in the setting. There is no doubt that there are large local variations around the individual schools, such as the representative Lyngstad. The reasons for this have been identified in the evaluation reports. We have had a profession that has not worked for so many years, approx. three years. We have had a teacher who has taught in the new subject without having learned about it through his learning challenge. Thus, it is not said that teachers do not have knowledge of it, but there is, after all, an important subject during today's learning challenge, and the first coal that is graduated with the contents of its learning challenge is a coal that goes out this year. Furthermore, we may not have been good enough to drive after- and further education to teachers who are going to teach in the subject. When the exemption rules apply, I cannot understand that what the Labour Party wants to do is confusing to the representative Lyngstad. I have seen drafts of the standard form, which is relatively easy to relate to when it comes to crossing out the parts that a person experiences as the practice of a special religion, so that one can easily ask for an exemption from that part of the teaching. When it comes to the other questions, Mr. Unfortunately, I don't have time to go into them now, but we'll get back to it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e284	One of the things that is fully agreed in the Committee's position is that efforts to strengthen the competence of teachers need to be strengthened. It is, of course, linked to the fact that the majority of teachers who teach in today's school in this subject have a teacher training which was adapted to a completely different subject and which covers only part of what is to be covered by this subject. My question is: why has the Workers' Party separated layers from the rest of the Committee and made a special remark stating that this reinforced effort can be solved without creating the need for increased resources at this point? I should like to know what that assessment is based on. So a little comment on the name question. The representative Upbeøen Hansen has already twice relied on the Value Commission as the authority, and it is gratifying that the Workers' Party has found that it is a probable authority. However, the name «Faith and Vision of Life» is, in my opinion, an even more life-wise name. It is even life-wise within the Christian scale if you consider different Christian denominations. It's a typical Protestant Lutheran name on the subject, in which the very few will find themselves at home. That's why I'm amazed that you can go in for this particular name. But to the most important question. I am quite confused about what the Workers' Party and the Advance Party really agree on after the round of clarification that has now been tried. I would like to ask the representative Upbeøen Hansen to clarify: Do you agree or are you not? In the change of line, the representative Mr Knudsen made it clear what was the basis of this joint comment by the Progress Party. I hope that the Workers' Party does not share that base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e295	When it comes to what I have mentioned is wrong in the setting, I will try to clarify it and explain what is the difference between the working party's vision and the view of the Progress Party. I'll repeat it one more time. The note states that using the first part of the standard form, i.e. when a check on exemption from religious activities, should not lead to an automatic exemption. That's what the Progress Party means. It doesn't mean the Working Party. The Labour Party believes that there should be automatic in the exemption below that point. So there's a significant difference in the point of view of that comment. So the Labour Party believes that for those who want to make a reservation, and want an exemption from the part of the subject that is doing, there should be no requirement to justify the application for an exemption. It's supposed to be automatic. That's the difference. When it comes to the question of exaggeration, there is no dissatisfaction in the Committee that it is important to bet on exaggeration for teachers when it comes to this subject. Of course, there is a budgetary question of whether one could give priority to post- and further education in that area within the current framework of post- and forward education, or whether there is a need to increase the financial framework for this. We will of course come back to that question in the context of the annual budgetary procedures, but the Labour Party believes that the framework for further development is so liberal that it can give more priority to further development in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e304	The last clarification from Sigvald Uppøen Hansen was important. There is, of course, a majority comment between the Progress Party and the Labour Party which is now obviously no longer a majority comment. There's two diametrically different visions that come out here now. At the end of his speech, Opbebøen Hansen entered the point of purpose and touched it part. Clearly, there is a connection between today's purpose paragraph and the CRL subject that we have. We have a purpose paragraph that says that school should help give children a Christian appointment. For us who belong to the Norwegian Church, and who have an involvement with it, this is unproblematic. But – and that is the problem – there are large parts of the Norwegian people who do not belong to the Norwegian Church, who do not belong to any Christian church community. And it's clear that for them this is a big problem, and it's an insoluble problem as long as we have this purpose paragraph. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen swung violently when it came to our pluralist society, our diverse society, and we have become. But we have to take the consequences of this also in relation to the purpose paragraph. The prayer Hansen says it's not time now, but we might have to do it later when we're evaluating the entire Reform 97. No, it's time now. 15 pst. by the people struggling with this subject, which is a consequence, among other things. the purpose paragraph. So my question to Uppebøen Hansen is, why won't the Workers' Party join in on this now? It would have been possible, because the Central Party has said at its national meeting that there is a need to change the purpose paragraph, take the consequences of the changes in our society. So the question to Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is, why isn't the time now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e316	Rolf Rikvam's line did not come as a surprise. A large majority in the committee, all except SV, believe that the purpose paragraph is not the subject of this debate. Only the representative Rikvam and the party SV thought it was important to address this issue. It is obvious that the discussion around the purpose paragraph is important. It was addressed in connection with the new training law. It was not possible to make changes at the time. I was myself one of the drivers to try to change the purpose paragraph. Furthermore, when I claim that the purpose paragraph cannot be linked solely to the subject of the KRL and the debate on that subject, it means that the Labour Party believes that that discussion must be taken in connection with the overall review and evaluation of the L97, which should be done if not for a very long time. That means that the purpose paragraph applies to all subjects, and it applies to the entire school level, so that we have to have a complete review of it. That is to say, we cannot take the consequences of this now, as the representative, Mr Rikvam, says. In fact, there is no time to reconsider the purpose paragraph today. Nor has the purpose paragraph been the subject of so much recording, debate and evaluation in the documents we are dealing with. When it concerns the Central Party's national meeting and the change that has occurred in the Center Party, I'm not going to comment on it. I only take note that the Central Party has now opened up to at least discuss a change of purpose paragraph, and it promises positive for the further debate when we evaluate L97.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e325	Would Oppebøen Hansen like to take up the proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e329	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e334	Then Uppebøen Hansen took up the proposal to which it was referred. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e339	Next to the family, the school is the most important moral institution. The school shall promote understanding and respect for the individual. But a prerequisite for this is that you know your own position and have knowledge of the values on which a society is built. Only then does one have the security that makes differences between us look at as challenges and not just problems. A religion subject will be able to bring about differences between us, and this can lead to tensions and uncertainties. But to be taught concepts of tolerance and respect in school, one must also be trained to live in it. This is why teachers, parents and students are challenged together to have confidence in the local school, to take this seriously. And for the Christian People's Party, it's important that we from the Biggest side now lay the groundwork for this to be possible. Looking at Norwegian school history, we quickly find out that Christian knowledge was the most important subject in primary school from the 1739s to the 18th century. Until 1969, the subject continued to function as the Church's baptismal training. In 1974, the school received a life - vision profession as an alternative to Christianity. And when the Pettersen Committee was set up to look at these two subjects, there was a common setting of 'Identity and dialogue'. On this basis, we got the KRL subject. It also included a note to evaluate the subject after a three-year period in order to meet the debate that was around the subject. The goal was to embrace all students, but with the right to exemption from, among other things. activities experienced as the exercise of other faiths. The current Danish Council of State Hernes stressed in the rationale for the subject ‘a common cultural identity based primarily on our Christian and humanist cultural heritage in a society of increasing pluralism’. That there should be the most substance about Christianity was reasonable from its historical and current place in Norwegian society. The trade was not to be training in a particular religion, but to be an ordinary school. I believe it is therefore completely wrong when St.meld. No 32 suggests calling the subject Faith and vision of life. It is the knowledge of Christianity, religion and the vision of life that is central – just like in other schools. In addition, a new name indicates that it would be a new subject. However, the evaluation shows that only small adjustments are needed to improve the profession. The name and content of a subject should be consistent. Therefore, it is important that «Christianity» is retained in the name. More than half of the subject is about Christian knowledge, i.e. three of the five main parts of the subject, i.e. the three parts: Bible knowledge, the history of Christianity, and Christian interpretation of life today. The fourth part is about other religions/life views and the fifth part about ethics/philosophy. The two research reports that form the basis for the Storing Communication have been prepared by the Norwegian Teachers Academy and the Högskulen in Volda in cooperation with the Diakonhome University Centre. It seems that the subject has been given too much, so it is recommended to reduce the amount of substance there. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority of the Committee, believes that the reduction should be relatively similar in all five parts, so that the emphasis should still be as it is in today's curriculum, that is. that the Christian substance still constitutes more than half of the national nuclear substance. The majority believe that more attention should be paid to the religions/life views represented in each class or community, especially in small schools. Local adjustment may make the time spent on the five parts slightly different from class steps to class steps. However, for childhood and childhood respectively, it shall be such that more time is spent on Christianity as a whole than on other religions/life views and ethics/philosophy. The curriculum team to assess further changes in the curriculum must consist primarily of representatives of different disciplines and have practical experience in the primary school CRL subject. They may have their background in different ways of life, but shall not be appointed as their representatives. These aren't the different religious communities' subjects, just as little as the social sciences are the subjects of the political parties. But the Christian People's Party wants support outside the school for training children and young people who belong to different religious communities, and that is what we come back to in the follow-up of NOW 2000:26. When 87 pst. by parents carrying their children to the point of baptism in our churches, it shows that we have a rather homogeneous cultural society, even though we have elements of more religions and cultures in Norway. Tolerance is not to give up on your own identity, but to allow others to have a different opinion, otherwise we are left to the free game of indifference. Training may not take place in a value-neutral void. We who have lived in cultures other than Norwegian know what it means to be able to meet understanding of our own identity. But there is no contradiction between a country highlighting its own cultural base and basing its values on it. The maintenance of the purpose paragraph and the fulfilment of Norway’s international obligations were two prerequisites for the review of the CRL subject. The purpose of training at school applies to all subjects, not just this. The limited exemption must be ensured through good information to parents and by a single notification form. There shall be no application form where parents must justify the exemption from religious activities and the like. The parental right must be exercised. One prerequisite is that school/home cooperation is good, and that information is clear about what the subject involves. The default form must be viewed as an aid, not as a management of parental choice. The Christian People's Party will also show greater liberalism in relation to exemptions at the small school stage. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party also support a scheme with the municipality as a judge, and it may seem to limit today's exemption clause. Even after the clarification we have now heard from the Workers' Party, I understand that they are stuck on the last part of that note. The research shows that 1/3 of parents are dissatisfied with the information, so here, something has to be done quite quickly. The question of exemptions must be based on parental and religious rights and also seen in conjunction with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed by Norway. It deals with respect for the child’s views and provides general rules on the right to training. Article 29 states that the aim of education is to create respect for human rights and promote attitudes towards peace, tolerance and friendship between people, ethnic, national and religious groups and respect for the culture of oneself and others. It shall also promote development and respect for the national values of the country in which the child lives. The Christian People's Party therefore shares the ministry's view that children and young people should have the right to know and understand their own and others' views of life or religion. The evaluation also shows that 86 pst. by parents this feels good, and only 5 pst. students have partial exemptions from the CRL subject. But some teachers think the subject has become too academic, and students think it's boring if you just sit and read. It must be clear that students will continue to have experiences through music, song and drawing and visits to sacred places, although this may trigger exemptions, because it is through life interpretations in practice that the subject becomes more than theory. This, I think, will also be improved when teachers receive more training and become more confident about what the subject involves, as the rapporteur has also pointed out today. The evaluation was started quite quickly after the introduction of the new subject. It is not until next year that teachers who have been trained in the subject come out to Norwegian school. Today only has 60 pst. by the teachers teaching in the CRL, relevant training in the subject. I would like to stress that all parties, except the Workers' Party, will have increased resources for the further training of teachers. It is amazing when the Workers' Party admitted earlier today in a reply that this has been too bad. The Committee agrees that strengthening teacher competence is an important measure to ensure greater legitimacy of the CRL subject. In addition, school leaders also need to have good insight into the subject, so that dialogue with their homes is good. Better information for parents needs to be provided. In the Communication, we can read that the intentions added to the Stortinget at the start of the CRL field in 1997 are to be continued. I am pleased and therefore believe that we must not now create uncertainty about the profile of the subject in this debate. The course shall be an inclusive common course for all students. Freedom of movement must be exercised in a liberal manner. The evaluation shows that you have succeeded in this. Someone doesn't want the subject at all. Opinions about this subject are natural. But I have faith in the important bridge builder function of the subject as a common subject and a common arena for knowledge dissemination and dialogue on Christianity, religion and the view of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e370	When we deal with these kinds of things that concern people's religion, faith, or outlook on life, we need to be relatively careful and careful. It's important that you're tolerant and you don't have any big-ass opinions. I have a feeling that the representative Scarbøvik is not the one who is the best at that particular exercise. She defends in a certain way Christianity and its position in one and all, and she can most gracefully share in allowing other religions and views of life to have the right to life. There are two areas where the majority goes against what the Government proposes. One goes by the name, and the other goes by how much of the subject is to be used for the different parts. Of course, not everything is being destroyed because the majority have proposed what they have done, but I think that the two decisions they want to take are a step in the wrong direction if the goal is that the subject should be as inclusive as possible, and be accepted and accepted by as many as possible. It is important that the name clearly shows that no religion is to be favored with quality. That's why it would be better to make a name that clearly showed it, and not just to keep a variant of the old, because there's no doubt that the name is one of the things that somehow becomes the symbol of those who disagree and who react to the subject. The same is true when we talk about how much of the subject is going to be Christian knowledge. Clearly, now that you keep today’s system, you don’t at all agree to meet those who are skeptical today. That probably means that there will still be a certain pressure for exemption. So I feel in a way that the representative Scarbøvik and the Christian People's Party are not taking the steps necessary to make the subject as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e381	I first want to assure the representative Norvoll that I have been doing this exercise for very many years. I myself have taught in the old Christian profession for over 20 years. I've lived in a land of Hindu culture, and I know what it means to meet other cultures and people with a different religion. This exercise in tolerance I have been subjected to quite a long time, so this is not new to me. But I defend this subject because I realize that this is to meet the rights of minorities in this country to also enter a common subject. It doesn't have to be the case that we're going to have a minority dictatorship, where you're going to be completely flat for other people's opinions. We have a majority in this country that has built on the cultural basis of Christianity over a thousand years. I will also take this seriously, otherwise we will push other people away from us and make the subject even worse. After all, it's a majority that says they want it this way. Why should we hide in the name of what this subject involves? That's what I feel the Workers' Party and the Government will do by calling this subject something other than what it is. It's not training in faith. It is a matter of knowledge about Christianity – I have no intention of substantiating – about other religions and about the outlook on life. I think that's what the subject's name must mean. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal. It's not going in the wrong direction. What's going in the wrong direction is when the Workers' Party tightens up the exercise of the right of exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e390	We are not going to have a minority dictatorship in this country, there is probably full agreement on that, and I hope that there is also full agreement that we should not have a majority dictatorship either, but that democracy implies that the majority has a duty to show respect and respect for the rights of minorities. I do not believe that there is any fundamental disagreement between the representative Scarbøvik and me on this point. But I should like to have made it clear from the representative of Scarbøvik that we also agree that there is a fundamental prerequisite that must be in place when we are going to address the issue of exemption, and that is that we in this country do not have a compulsory school. We have a training obligation, but we don't have a school obligation. It implies that there is a right for life-synthesis minorities that cannot be reconciled with the arrangement of public schools, to establish their own alternatives. I know that the Christian People's Party is basically of the same opinion, but I was a little surprised that it was not clarified in the article from Skarbøvik. It was shown that the evaluation shows that the vast majority of parents are satisfied and that there is a small minority who want to make use of the exemption. It's basically uninteresting to me if the minority is 5 pst., 10 pst. Or 1 per million, because of course this is not a quantitative but a qualitative problem. I do not believe that the Christian People's Party in the vote has been able to deliver a satisfactory solution to the issue of exemption. Therefore my question is: why will not the Christian People's Party go into the idea of a two-part division of the subject, which the Left and Right have pointed to in the position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e399	I agree with what was clarified here, and that I was not told in my reply; of course I don't want a majority dictatorship either. I want a majority democracy, and I might have deepened it in another way. It's true that I didn't see much about private schools in this context, but we've always been in and debated about that side of our school policy. There is a Christian People's Party quite clear. Of course, we want to make it possible for private schools to be established, to have the opportunity to do so. I also see the father here, that if you tighten up this subject too much, there may be more who will establish private schools – not the father, but the possibility of doing so is there. When we don't want the full division of the subject, as the Right and Left go by, it's because we think it's going to kind of undermine what's meant by a common subject. We're going to get some kind of an A and a B syllabus, something you're going to be in common about, and something you're not going to be in common about. It means saying that something is more dangerous to talk about than anything else, or more difficult, so hard that we have to go to each of our rooms to talk about it. We want to make sure you can sit in the same place and talk to each other, have a dialogue with all the parts of the subject, as far as possible. We therefore believe that a two-tier would undermine the common subject and would rather facilitate the exercise of the right of exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e408	I do not know how many times the representative Scarbøvik used the term ‘respect’ and ‘tolerance’ in his post. That was pretty many times. At best, it's the majority's way of defining tolerance and respect for her then turns into a spokesman for. Later she was concerned that we should not have minority dictatorships. A little thought experiment: as I said, we have a point of purpose – I'm not going to refer it again – where one of the objectives is to help with a Christian set-up. So we know that very many large groups do not belong to the Christian faith and religion, but yet our school, the common school, the public school, should help to give them the service that they initially neither want nor have asked for. How would the representative Skarbøvik react if she lived in a Muslim country, where the majority represented the Muslim faith, and they had a similar purpose paragraph, the aim of which was to raise the children of Skarbøvik in Muslim faith? Would this be to show tolerance to the minority that Skarbøvik then represented? But our school, as it works today, is going to do just this. And the fundamental question that we all have to ask ourselves, even if it hurts sometimes, is, can we continue with a school that has this as one of its tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e415	It's true that I used the words respect and tolerance a lot. They mean a lot to me. I'm not going to finish them, and I'm probably not trained yet. But to me, respect doesn't mean I give my identity and my tradition. Respect has to go both ways, and we're going to learn from each other. For me, learning about others too is an enrichment. And I've said in the past that I've done the practice of living in a Hindu country, where my children were taken to Hindu parties at festivals, we were out to see places of sacrifice, temples, people's lives. It was a matter of course for us to live in such a country. I did not experience it as a threat to my children, for I could rear my children at home and otherwise in a Christian faith. I also feel that in Norway, we have the freedom – of course – that parents take responsibility for the training of their children of faith, but that the school can facilitate learning about all religions, including the identity and cultural basis of our country. I have tried this and seen that it works this way. That is why I also want others to experience the richness of being able to meet at school and have it as a meeting place for identity and dialogue. That's what this subject is doing, and I think Norwegian school is a good example of how it works. Many countries now look at and will learn from Norway’s religious training. There are quite a number of conferences around the world in this very area – «Religious Education» – where we can and will learn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e426	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e430	The most remarkable feature of this debate is the explanation that a central majority comment in the vote is not really a majority comment. This concerns the comment on page 5 on which the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are united, and it concerns the main point of controversy throughout the proceedings, namely the exercise of the right of exemption and the definition of the right of exemption. Now you could say that one word in difference isn't always all the world, but when it's the word 'not' it can be a not insignificant difference. It implies, as far as I can understand, that in the context of the administrative management of the application for exemption, the Labour Party and the Advance Party consider the opposite of the other, and not the same as the other. However, if you look closely, you will discover that this first passus is integrated into the whole of this majority comment, because what is the trend of the majority comment is to argue against the liberalisation of the right of exemption. It is explicitly said that there is no desire to dilute the limits of exemption. It's kind of a strange expression, because it's probably only at sea that borders can be diluted, but you can understand the meaning of that, and that's why I think the Workers' Party owes a further clarification. Because in the meantime, the Progress Party has clarified their reasons, and it is clear and clear. The reason for this, as presented in the first line change, was that minorities – and in particular what the party’s language usage calls distant cultural minorities – have a kind of moral duty to adapt to the majority, what is called ethnic Northmen. Is it the case that the Workers' Party shares this view, and that is why the Workers' Party wants to limit the exemption as much as possible, or does the Workers' Party have any other reason for this? I think we need to have a reasonable claim to clarify that. When this is essentially important, it is because it concerns what we were dealing with in the previous succession, namely the principles of a liberal democratic society. Very many people believe that democracy is sufficiently defined when it is said that it means majority rule. At my discretion, it's just one-half of the definition of a democratic society. In fact, the second half is more important, namely the majority's moral obligation to give minorities the same rights as the majority enjoys as far as it is possible within common rules of the game. So, in my opinion, the reason for this comment by the Progress Party is the exact opposite; it is assumed that it is the minorities who have a duty to adapt to the majority at all times, it is not the majority who have a duty to take account of the minorities. This is a fundamental difference, and therefore I hope that the Workers' Party will clarify what remains to clarify what these two parties really are in agreement about, and what they disagree about. When this is important, it is because it concerns the question of the further follow-up after the Storting's treatment of this, because the leading point for the follow-up is what there is in the Storing's majority for, and what there is no majority for. There are some features in the evaluation of the CRL subject that I think it is important to focus on and identify. One of the evaluation reports shows that the subject is overburdened with regard to subject matter, in relation to the time available. It's the basic agreement that something has to be done about it. A better match must be made between the time available to the subject and the knowledge material to be notified. Furthermore, the evaluation points out that there is a danger that the subject may be illegitimately intellectualised, because the right of exemption associated with what is called religious activities, or religiously-emphasised activities, leads many teachers to go into a big arc beyond anything that might be near the element of experience. In this case it is an unintended effect, but it is devastating for the subject. It is true that our school in general suffers from a tendency to intellectualise and undernourish children — especially in the small school stage — the need for experiences and emotional commitment. On this point, it seems to me that the majority's position in the position is not really on the level of this fundamental problem. The evaluation says that the subject should be shifted more towards activity and emotional commitment. This, in turn, will lead to an increase in the scope of the exemption problem, necessarily. But there's nothing in the majority in the vote that gives some clear guidance on how to solve this problem. The only thing that emerges from the vote is that there are slightly different shades in the perception of how liberal one should be in the exercise of the right of exemption. The other thing that seems clear is that the majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, explicitly say that it is the municipality that will ultimately exercise judgement where there is doubt as to whether or not exemptions are to be granted. Also on that point, I hope that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will clarify the basis for this opinion, that it is a nearby municipal authority task to review the judgement of the parents, possibly the students on the basis of their wish for an exemption. I think that this discretionary exercise also in the continuation will be extremely difficult. And I can't see that what the majority say, in such a case, gives the municipal authorities very much help in getting this judgment done. And then the last and most important problem: the evaluation reports show that it has never been possible in the three years that the subject has existed, to address the exemption problem satisfactorily. This is not a quantitative but a qualitative problem, as I said in the lineword shift instead. It's uninteresting how much percent that says they're satisfied, and how little percent that says they're experiencing the problem, because the problem is of a principle nature, and it can't be answered by statistics. At my discretion, the thinking that the Right and Left have expressed in their comments in the setting is the one that has the best prospects of meeting this problem in a forward-looking and clarifying way. If one were to add a two-part division of the subject that would allow a timely separation through the school year of the elements known to cause problems for some, from those elements that experience does not cause problems, it would probably be possible to avoid all these difficult, individual judgements. And you would, if it worked to draw the boundary line in a convincing way, probably create a situation where most of the life-view and religious minorities would feel considerably safer than they feel today. Finally, a small note about the name problem. I think the message's intention to use a name change as an attempt to meet objections is affordable and good. But I think the proposal you have made, on which the Workers' Party and SV stand in the position, is the worst possible proposal, because the demonstrative emphasis on the concept of faith as the name of this subject, in my opinion, is highly cultural. It is a very particular Christian tradition that uses the word faith in this way. This is not how this word is used by other religions, and even less so is used by those who represent secular views of life. That is why I believe that the name proposal is the worst possible one of all the roll-call proposals. Finally, I refer to the proposal that the right and left stand together in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e466	The representative's salary has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e471	It is well known when the representative is going to the pulpit, that it is the other parties he is talking about – as well as this time. It was probably eight of these ten minutes that went by to talk about the Workers' Party. He obviously thought that the Right is the best, and then he spent time arguing against the bad proposal of the Labour Party. I didn't hear anything about the good suggestion from the Right when it comes to names. But enough about it – as I said, it is well known. In the case of the CRL subject, there should be an ordinary schooling course in the same line as other subjects. Such a common arena for all is important, an arena where knowledge is to be assured of religion and view of life, not training in a particular belief. From the Workers' Party's side – and I believe from all sides, because there is a great deal to do about it – we want the most likely to participate in a common training course, build a common culture and a common value base. That is why it is also necessary to create curricula that remove the need for exemption. When I read the setting -- not listening to Right's posts -- I see that Right's busy with parents' rights. Of course, we are all a few. But when investigations show that 40 pst. by the parents who have expressed themselves, say that the Christian section in the subject group should be seen to be only half of the amount of material – all the school years seen below – and other religions, ethics and philosophy the other half, I don't quite understand why Right is so busy that the parents who believe this are not going to get through, that they are holding on to the composition of the different elements of the subject that we have today. It is important for parents to be heard, but in that context, it did not seem right that it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e482	The representative Frøiland must have heard a little wrong, I think, when she heard that I was talking materially about the Workers' Party. I talked about the majority comment from two parties, of which Frøiland only mentioned one, namely her own. I put my finger on the remarkable fact that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have just joined forces and form a majority at the jumping point in this setting. I therefore allowed myself to ask for clarification as to whether it also means that the basis of premise is the same when one agrees on such a majority comment. And I hope that it will be clarified by both parties during the debate, because it is quite important in terms of the further follow-up of the matter. Furthermore, the representative of Frøiland said that there was an agreement that the subject should not be ‘training in a particular faith’. I can confirm that – at that point we agree. And that's exactly why I've put my finger on the name change proposal for me, because if there's any name on the subject that could lead to the misunderstanding that there's going to be training in "true", then it's exactly the name proposal that puts the concept of faith as the first and general concept in the name. And then finally, when it comes to parental rights, I think we're using that word a little bit of different ways. For me, the parental right is not exercised through majority decisions or through gallup studies carried out by this evaluation. The parental right is individual; it is the right of the individual parent to make a reservation. And that's a completely different problem than the one that the replicator raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e498	I always find it interesting to listen to the representative on the payroll post. I noticed that he particularly highlighted the danger of intellectualization of the subject, and he also focused on the exemption problem. So the right answer to these two questions is going to be to bisect the subject. But doesn't one with a two-part just go into that problem and into that pit he warned against? The two-part division just doesn't take seriously that these things have a bit of knowledge and a bit of experience and recognition, and that these things have to appear as a whole. Then it becomes a little difficult for us in the Christian People's Party to understand that one can operate with a two-part division that could quickly lead to an A- and B-substance – yes, which is actually B-substance that is too difficult or too dangerous for people to be together about. For me, it's kind of curious that this two-part division is kind of something that's become very acute and has come up as an idea in the Oslo environment, and it's like Oslo's everyday life that's going to form a template for a national curriculum. The fundamental problem with the two-part proposal is, of course, – and the representative also said in his statement – that if a border is successfully drawn, it could reduce the exemption problem. But what is a satisfactory way? Who is going to decide this two-way division of the subject? After all, it's going to be the parents' experience of the subject, and how they experience it in relation to their own way of life, so the two-way way won't fully solve the question of exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e507	We can probably agree that there is no such thing as sedentary, sedentary from some point in solving the exemption dilemma. The majority, too, assume that there must be a very fundamental audit work on the curriculum and structure of the subject, and it is only after that audit has been carried out that it will also make a good contribution to solving the problem. But I must have the representative Lyngstad's presentation corrected on one point. This idea of a two-part division of the drug in the subject has not come up in the very last years in what he called the Oslo environment. This idea was raised on the right as early as 1997, when the plans for this subject were examined. And we've pointed that out in the comments in the setting, on page 3, where it says: «These members recall that the Right Spring 1997 advocated a two-part division of the subject: a part that can be mandatory and common to all students with emphasis on ethics/philosophism and an orientative presentation of Christianity and other religions and views of life, and another part that more specifically deals with Christianity.» I'm fully aware that drawing up this line is a demanding and difficult problem. But I think it has greater prospects of solving a problem that I'm going to assume that especially the Christian People's Party will be concerned with solving, namely the danger that the teacher in practice today will solve the dilemma by making teaching as meaningless as possible. It is clear that the more content-poor education becomes, the fewer will be supported by it. And I think that's actually the greatest danger for this subject, that it becomes a toothless and contentless subject. In that case, it will affect all aspects of life, not least Christianity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e519	This message is only a preparatory exercise for a subsequent legislative change – I am thinking about the Training Act. In fact, the Training Act regulates all public schools, regulates the content of all home education, and also regulates the content of all private schools not approved by the Private School Act. In other words, when the Training Act reserves a large section for the KRL subject, we are logically faced with a large, large revision. Then I am very surprised when the Right uses the law and points out that it has a training obligation, not a school obligation, to confront the representative of the Christian People's Party in a line exchange. I would like to know more precisely Right reasons for not doing these things specifically and thoroughly in connection with the Training Act, not just this two-part exercise that is constantly repeated. With regard to the views of the Progress Party on this majority remark, which is, moreover, our observation to which the Labour Party has joined, it must be seen in connection with our first note on page 5. Then it immediately gets a completely different context. We say there that exemption requests should and must be justified. It may not be difficult to justify why an application for exemption is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e526	In the first part of Evje's contribution, I just need to make it clear that my point by including the distinction between compulsory education and compulsory education was to point out that we have a law on private schools in this country, and that that law is based on the principles of international conventions signed by Norway, which oblige us to give parents, on an individual basis, an opportunity to choose solutions for their children other than those offered by the public school. My point was just to point out that this is important to have in mind when we conduct the debate we are holding today on the right of exemption. Because if it hadn't been like that, if it hadn't existed such a right for life-vision minorities, it's quite clear that both Möse and others would have concluded differently in their beliefs than they have actually done. It is important to bear in mind that this is the condition that public schools can operate at all with a common subject with a profile that will necessarily be experienced by some who are close to their religious beliefs or their outlook on life. To the second element, why we run this bipartite, the answer is quite simple: we believe that the evaluation report is well on track to confirm what we said in 1997 when the Stortinget dealt with the introduction of this subject, namely that the issue of exemption rights is inextricably as the subject is now. Our idea is that this means that we should then change the structure of the subject in order to find a way if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e533	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e536	The representative, in his reply, pointed out to me, quite correctly, that the law on private schools was covered by conventions. But this does not, in fact, apply only to private schools; it applies equally to public schools, which have to comply with ratified conventions on human rights. The party of progress is hammering and hammering on this fact, but not getting through, it's a recurring problem we have here in Stortinget. When it came to my question, I have not received an answer. I asked a specific question to the Right about their work in connection with the Training Act, their own paragraph on the KRL subject and exemption rights. The representative did not want to respond. The message and existing laws sometimes give conflicting messages to users. This gives poor communication, as has been pointed out earlier today. Then it does not help with brochures in many languages, as the Workers' Party says one should have. The Education Act’s purpose paragraph continues to state that the school should give students a Christian and moral appointment. This is not only linked to the KRL subject, but to the overall responsibility that the school has under laws and regulations. We still have a state religion and a state church to take into account, and we're going to have it for quite many years yet. Christianity should provide knowledge of religions and outlook on life, not training for a particular faith. It must be the parents' responsibility. Already in 1969 it was agreed that schooling was not to be part of the baptismal education of the Church. This must mean that the subject, now as then, is based on knowledge. Knowledge increases understanding, through which tolerance and – hopefully – respect. That not everyone agrees with the subject does not mean that what Stortinget has decided in the past is wrong. It just shows with all manner of clarity that we're all different, and not just on the outside. The Party of Advancement wants to maintain a superlevy of knowledge of Christianity, as laid down in the Evangelical Lutheran doctrine. The Progress Party is of the opinion that this is important for a good understanding and respect for knowledge about Norway’s development and history over time and the Norwegian community today. Article 18(1) of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights 4 commits Norway to respect the freedom of parents to provide their children’s religious and moral education in accordance with their own beliefs. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has dealt with matters relevant to the CRL subject. It is matters Angelini versus Sweden about exemption from teaching in the subject of religious knowledge, and Kjeldsen, Busk Madsen and Pedersen versus Denmark on sexual education. Here it is stated that the Convention does not prevent religious education from putting the emphasis on Christianity at primary level. With regard to the requirement of exemption from sexual education, it was established that a person could not require exemption from training based on an objective and critical presentation of a case complex. Article 30 of the United Nations Children’s Convention that children belonging to minorities and indigenous people should not be denied the right to benefit from their culture, to profess and practice their religion or to use their own language, does not preclude training in religions and outlooks other than their own religion, rather on the contrary. Such broad training prevents intolerance, will create understanding. Then I will mention the continuing training of teachers, who are neglected, perhaps not consciously, but it falls nicely into a wide range of other neglects. Furthermore, the subject must be such that schools approved under the private school law can also include elements and provide the same broad, basic starting point for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e563	After the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen has been cleared up in an area where the Labour Party and the Advance Party disagree, I will bring forward an area where not only the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree, but where the entire Committee stands together. It is in the setting: ‘In an increasingly multicultural population, school training must aim at promoting understanding, respect and ability to engage in dialogue between people with different perceptions of faith and outlook on life. At the same time, the subject shall provide students with a better understanding of their own religious or life-seeing tradition and identity.» So the progress party is going in here so that even those who do not belong to the majority who are members of the Norwegian Church should be able to learn about their own religion or their own way of life in school, and I think that's great. But I still don't get any sense of the Progress Party, because when the Stortinge dealt with the parent language education message in primary school, the Progress Party said: ‘In any case, these members consider that special expenses which may arise in schools and other public institutions based on individual requirements should initially be covered by the individual himself if the requirement has its origins in culture, ethnic background or religion.’ [[or parents]] On the basis of this comment, it had to be assumed that the parents had to pay for the training in their own religion. My question to the Progress Party is therefore: have something happened in the Progress Party, are we really witnessing a new recognition that we need to take multicultural Norway seriously? Or is this reorientation a result of the fact that the Progress Party has become a party of government ambitions and will make itself a little less dangerous? Or is it simply a glitch?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e580	Historical facts about agreement and cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party speak for themselves. The very good cooperation that has historically been held in Oslo with regard to the recognition of private schools according to special life - I think especially of Urtegata school - is an example in this way. Here, the Labour Party and the Advance Party agreed that Urtegata school was based on Muslim faith. We've been dealing with old agreements, because to us they apply until new ones are concluded, and some new agreements are not concluded by. date. But that's the way life is. When it comes to respect for the religion and outlook of others, I actually stood here and said that no one has hurt to acquire knowledge. I also referred to some conventions. The party of progress will never prevent parents from raising their own children in their own faith in the private sphere or in the sphere of their own church, temple or house of God, but we cannot believe that this should be a responsibility for the community. This is actually a responsibility of the individual. In the case of additional costs incurred by the public in connection with the public undertaking of this task, we consider it reasonable to take up and discuss them and, where appropriate, to cover those who impose additional burdens on the community which are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e589	I'm a little surprised at the Progress Party line in this setting. In particular, their proposal on the right of exemption is a note that they had in the vote in common with the Workers' Party, but from which the Workers' Party has distanced itself. It's still a little bit unclear what this distance is, but at least it's important now to get the Progress Party's presentation of what's behind it. I feel that today's exemption is being tightened by the fact that this is going to be a reason for the activities that a person wants to apply for today's exemption. In addition, it is said ‘that the municipality must exercise discretion in the handling of such an application and that there must be a high degree of flexibility’, without specifying when it is to be exercised and what that flexibility consists of. It is also known that there are limits to the scope of exemptions when related to activities. What then becomes my question to Ursula Evje's representative is: Is it true that this is a restriction of today's right of exemption? When shall flexibility be exercised and how far shall flexibility extend? I also wonder why it is really necessary to tighten up. Is the motive here a kind of forced act of faith, or is it an opinion that if we tighten up the right of exemption, it will be even more difficult to have a common subject, and that it is the common subject the Progress Party really wants to get away?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e596	The representative Lyngstad related his question to the word activity, it might have been more precise exercise. And just using the exemption from activity is for us a very wide and extremely tidy concept. A tightening, I'd rather say a non-discrimination, doesn't have to mean that we get something worse. Equal treatment can mean that everyone has the same level of relaxation, or equal treatment can mean that everyone gets narrower, more right-wing boundaries to deal with, i.e. a smaller room of personal judgement, sighting and belief around the many municipalities, with the many different factors that are then put into play. I want to point out that the last part of this joint comment goes on and is a reason, and it says: ‘However, the majority would point out that there is a limit to the scope of exemptions and that it is important to ensure that the limits of exemption are not diluted in such a way that full exemption rights are effectively introduced. This would in the event overturn the intention of the subject.’ I choose to believe that the representative Lyngstad has not read the whole comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e608	I have two questions. One relates to the section of the position where a majority of the Committee points out that supporting religious and life-view communities’ own training activities in relation to the children who are nursing to their respective communities would help to ease the pressure on the exemption debate. At that point, the Progress Party has made a pretty bold statement, saying that you will come back to the matter. But I'd like to know if it's because you basically think that this is the state out of the question, and that's why you're in doubt, or whether there's any other reason why you're in doubt? At my discretion, this could be a contribution, as I said, to ease the pressure on the exemption issue. But then back to the joint remark between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party that part of this debate has come to be about for good reasons, because there has not been any insignificant ambiguity about what you really agree on, and what you do not agree on. The Labour Party has therefore said that it is the opposite of what is said in the first sentence, and therefore I would like to clarify whether the Progress Party expressly believes what is stated in the sentence, namely that all applications for exemption should be individually conditional and that they should be justified in writing. It's important to find out if you're really on it. And the second question, which is more basically emphasized: the Progress Party generally tends to be quite skeptical about political governance, but here one wants to add the decisive word to the municipal authorities, i.e. local political democracy. Is this a particular point of view, or is it generally the case that the Progress Party wants politicians to dominate parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e617	The representative's salary began his line by referring to the fact that, in this case too, the Progress Party had, in his opinion, some intriguing comments, and that we would come back to the matter. It may not be so strange that you want to wait to take a stand on a matter until you have developed the necessary skills that must be at the heart of taking a position over time with a value-based starting point, especially in such circumstances as this. There is no other remarkable reason for this than that we also admit once in a while that the necessary competence is not at the moment. When it comes to clarifying what the Progress Party means by its remark, it should be completely unnecessary. That is the comment of the Progress Party and the wording of the Progress Party, and in our view it is clear and in line with what we have said all the time this has been up for debate over the years in this Chamber. There's no change in our point of view at all. When it comes to this with an exemption request, when you have a limited right, you will automatically get into an application procedure. And an application procedure, whether it goes on a check-up and automatic in a form or not, is someone who makes a decision in advance or gradually in this specific application. When we've argued that ‘some’ can be in the first instance the nearest political governing body where people live, it's not particularly remarkable either. And I really don't understand the need to make a profile on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e626	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e629	The strength of democracy is shown primarily in the way that minority rights are respected. Minority rights are poorly respected in what the majority now pledge. A relatively comprehensive evaluation has been carried out. The evaluation reports show that there are considerable variations in the way learning is organised within this subject. And it's going to be in a primary school of diversity. The weighting of the different parts of the subject varies depending on the composition of the student groups. Teachers take into account the religious stand of the students. That's the way it should be, and there's reason to give credit to the teachers for the work they're doing on this subject. Continuing education is important, but I do not believe that the answer lies primarily with regard to the future of this subject. What does not work, on the other hand, is the exemption system, and that it is practised differently. According to the evaluation reports, there are schools where full exemption has been implemented. There is reason to recall that there are no Muslim or humane groups that get full exemption, but there are Christian groups that represent a minority in relation to other Christian groups within the community. 85 pst. indicates that the subject operates satisfactorily and that they are satisfied with the subject. This isn't unexpected, and it's not the most interesting either. 15 p.m., and they represent minority groups, the subject does not feel well enough. That's the serious thing, and that's what's the challenge for us. What do we do that has asked for this evaluation? The majority in this room records that 85 pst. are satisfied, and make some minor adjustments, which were needed according to Scarbøvik. But the challenge isn't the 85 pst. That's the 15 pst. Which is the challenge we face. It must be taken seriously when parents go to court to try out the exemption system against human rights. It must be a cross of thought when the same groups consider submitting Norway to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. What is proposed by the majority is the death penalty for a common subject. We cannot maintain a common subject where there should be an exemption from all or part of the subject. New conflicts between groups will arise. Although some people try to minimize these conflicts to be an Oslo problem, we have to take it seriously. And it is, as I said, serious when large groups choose to act contrary to laws and regulations. We can't have it that way. That's why there's probably only one way out of this mess that we've come up with. Firstly, we have to take the challenge that is true in relation to the purpose paragraph. And it surprises me that the majority are not afraid to address this very central question. As a member of the Church, I personally have little problem with such a provision, but at the same time I recognize that parents who do not share my outlook on life, who have a completely different belief and religious affiliation, and who have a strong commitment to their faith, cannot accept that the public school should raise their children to a belief they do not share. We have to do something about this. In addition, we need to make a plan that removes the need for exemption, and that means that Christianity should still have a central place in this plan as part of the field of knowledge. We must focus on dialogue and conflict resolution and develop and teach children in common standards. If we choose this as an angle of incidence, if we choose to dry up into the big challenges of creating a subject as much as possible, or preferably everyone, we can reassemble, we still have the opportunity to maintain a common subject. I regret that in my own proposal I have to propose a full exemption. It's simply because the majority don't take seriously the challenges we have, and add up to subjects that it's not possible to regroup all the groups. That is why I must propose a full exemption. I also refer to the other proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e655	Rolf Rikvam has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e660	If I did not perceive completely wrong, the representative Rikvam and SV's goal for a course in school was a common subject, but where there is no need for exemption. I'm wondering a little bit about the content and the design of this subject, because if you wanted to take these life views and religions seriously, you'll realize that they both have a little bit of knowledge and a bit of experience and experience. But once you realize that the views of life and religions have such a dimension, and you want to take these subjects seriously, you just tell yourself the need for exemption – because you have an experience element in it. This makes it a little wonder for me to hear that a person wants a common subject, but no exemption at all, because it is based on a construction that probably does not take the character of religions and life views seriously. And then I ask myself if it's still the way SV thinks you can get to a neutral profession, and that it's the neutrality ideology that's behind it, and not that a person wants to take seriously the nature and the peculiarity of the subjects and religions and the beliefs of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e668	We all use the word 'common'. That means that we want a subject that everyone can participate in, that is, a subject where there is no basic need for exemption. At the moment we say that there is a need for exemption, we have said in many ways that this is no longer a common subject; it is no longer a subject to gather everyone for education, a subject that is a meeting place for all groups. For us, it's still a goal to create a common subject. If we can't do it, if we don't have the goal clearly that we should be able to develop a common subject, we just have to choose the path that the Right chooses, that is to say that we operate with two subjects or maybe three or more subjects where something is common, which is mandatory and from which there is no exemption, and besides it has one then full exemption and can choose different offers. It is the only choice we have if we no longer believe in the common subject – and it surprises me a little that the representative Lyngstad no longer believes in the common subject, but believes in a subject where it is initially to be recognized that there is a need for exemption. I think there is so much common intelligence between the different religions that from the point of view of the different religions, from the point of view of an approach, from the point of view of dialogue, we are able to create a common subject that can all be grouped together. And it's not a question of value neutrality, it's a question of finding what we have in common, and emphasising it and having a pedagogical approach to this that makes everyone feel that this is a subject they can participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e675	I noticed that the representative Reikvam used the wording that he regretted that he had to propose a full exemption. I think I understand the idea behind it, but at the same time it seems to me that this proposal is kind of throwing the cards, because it will essentially mean defining the subject as an electoral subject, that is, a subject that has a status that no other subject in the school has, and that it is basically up to the individual whether you find it worth spending time on the subject or wanting to spend time on other tasks instead. I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that it would at least be a regrettable way out of a problem. When I asked for the word, it was primarily to sign out what SV said in their committee comments about the school's purpose paragraph. I fully agree that the time has come to discuss through all the problems associated with the school's purpose paragraph. When we in the Right have not addressed it in this setting, it is to prevent the misunderstanding that has shaped the public debate, that the school's purpose paragraph is primarily a platform for this subject, and that there is a very special link between this particular subject and the school's purpose paragraph that does not relate to the school's other subjects. L97 places a great deal of emphasis on interdisciplinary integration across the subjects of the school. That is why, in my view, it is clear that the debate on what is going to happen with the school's purpose paragraph belongs to the large evaluation of the entire L97. It does not belong in the evaluation of the CRL subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e684	That was correctly understood – I was sorry that I had to make a proposal for a full exemption. This means that we need to develop an alternative subject, an alternative offer to those students who find themselves unable to participate in this common subject, or what at least some still want to call a common subject. I think that if the majority had relied on the comments we have with the Workers' Party, where we put strong leadership in relation to the group to be set up, in terms of what this subject is going to develop, I think we could have created a subject where there was no need for exemption. As a starting point, I had not been concerned with proposing a full exemption. It would, in my opinion, be wrong. If we agreed that we would do this on the basis of what we have outlined, it would not be appropriate for me to propose a full exemption during this interim period that we have until we finish this subject, that is, the next school year. I am pleased that the Right sees the need to do something about the purpose paragraph, but I regret that they will not be on our proposal this time. There is clearly a link between the purpose paragraph and this subject, in the same way that there is a link between the purpose paragraph and other subjects. But the link is particularly strong when it comes to this subject. That's why it was natural for us to involve the purpose paragraph as part of the debate. But I record that the Right in the same way as us, sees the need to make a change, and I can promise them that they will have the chance to participate in such a debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e695	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e698	The aim of the left is that the CRL subject we have today should in the future become a common knowledge, ethics and value subject that can encompass everyone. Such a course will not require an exemption. In my opinion, we do not have such a subject today, but the outline of such a future subject is among other things. recently submitted by the City Council of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party of Oslo. I think it is a proposal that should be listened to, because it is made in a school-political situation and in a municipality where you have to meet all the major world religions, the great groups of life, and where it is indispensable for everyone to have knowledge of each other, but at the same time it is established that the actual training related to baptism, faith and vision of life should take place in the direction of the individual religious and life-view society. This, of course, also requires public support schemes to ensure it. It is regrettable that there is only a minority in the Committee who are willing to address such an extension of support schemes, but the Left stands for such a view. I think it's strange to call a subject "faith". You can have knowledge of Christianity, religion and the outlook on life, and I'm of course voting that the subject should be that way. For me, «faith knowledge» is a strange concept, and I have no more cause than to say that I think the terms should be correct. One must have knowledge of Christianity and other religions. The path to a trade is linked to evaluation, and there is a difference here. The majority of the Committee will wait for the large curriculum evaluation. The left is with the Right and wants a new evaluation of the CRL subject for various reasons. Firstly, because the evaluation that we now have behind us started almost at the same time as the subject was established. It is in many ways very clever in those municipalities, and perhaps especially in Oslo, where one faces the meetings of the various minority groups, co-existence and respect for one another. On the left, together with the Right, there is a view that a new evaluation of the CRL subject should be carried out no later than before the final report for the overall evaluation of L97. It is not surprising that there has been a debate here on where the right of exemption should go. The left has a proposal together with the Right as the representative of Wage has taken up, and our view of the right of exemption is that we have to assume that in Norway there is a training obligation, but not a school obligation. This means that we can find a solution that respects freedom of religion by distinguishing, in relation to the CRL subject, between the knowledge elements of the subject, the common ethics of the subject, and the conditions described as follows: ‘Students should therefore have the opportunity, in addition to the dissemination of knowledge, to meet religious expressions through visual arts, visits to sacred places and direct contact with people professing to join the religion in question. They must also be able to participate in such activities as singing, dramatisation, reading texts, the presentation of prayers and the celebration of festivals. This part of the teaching must be possible to be exempted to the extent that parents feel the need for it.» In other words, here we want a unconditional parental exemption. It also means that as teaching consists not only of demarcatable activities but also of religious content, it must be possible to reserve itself both for individual activities and for the acquisition of the content of teaching. The size cannot make detailed rules for this, and there are many factors that may influence it, but this will have to take into account local conditions, the life-seeing composition of the class and the age of the students in the design of the class curricula. In the view of the Left, it will also be necessary to mark in the curriculum which parts of the knowledge material and ethics education are to be shared. This has led to the proposal previously referred to by the representative. Let me say that I am very surprised that the representative, on behalf of SV, actually gives students access to opt-out from the knowledge-oriented parts of the subject we have today, because that is the consequence of his proposal. The consequence of his suggestion is that he gives people access to choose from knowledgeable learning that there are more people and more religions in this country than they usually have before. I think it's a little durable. Then, in the absence of a reply in a previous reply, to the representative of the Workers' Party who said that he would delete the word ‘not’ in the joint comment with the Progress Party, I would only note that it means that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party agree on the restriction of the right of exemption contained in the text they have on pages 5 and 6 of the vote. No one has deviated from such an interpretation before, and I find it quite natural to sum up the Workers' Party and the Progress Party's view as more restrictive than what has so far been the plan and purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e719	It is not often that I need to take a line on the Left's representative in school policy matters, but in this question, the Left has joined forces with the Right on a two-part model in the subject that I will not readily accept, either with regard to the challenges of the subject's content or with regard to the question of exemption. It is clear that even if you try to link the two-part division to the part that goes on activities, the subject will appear as a whole. The real question is, who is it that will determine the experience of these two parts? That's the question that I don't think finds any redeemable answer in the model that the Left and Right have merged. On the other hand, I do feel that with regard to the view of exemptions, both who should have the decisive word, and to the extent that what types of activities it is natural to grant exemptions, it is not the big difference. So the difference is in the very construction of the school subject, which I feel is going to be wrong. Have I understood correctly that the difference is not so great with regard to the part that goes on the question of exemption, but that the two-part concept in the subject is not entirely solving the problem of exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e728	The representative Lyngstad is quite right that the exemption structure we have is not ideal, because, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Left, we also do not have an ideal profession to organise the exemption right. But based on the relationship we have, with a school where we're not going to make the CRL the subject of choice, while respecting the parents' unconditional freedom from international conventions, the description of the construction contained in the text is the best thing we could do, because we're facing a dilemma. The best answer, in the opinion of the Left, is the proposal actually presented by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in common, which sits with the City Council in Oslo, where there is a school-political and religious diversity to which one must relate, and where the parties initially have the values known to the same three parties here in the Chamber. With regard to the parents' place in this picture, I agree with the representative Lyngstad that the position of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party has taken part in the setting is closer to the Right and Left's view than the Workers' Party and the Advance Party currently stand for in practice. I feel that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have taken a position that does not contest the parents' right to go into the exemption when there is a current situation, while I feel that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, in their joint remark, even if one removes the word 'not', have resorted to a much more restrictive practice of parents' right to be exempted from those parts of the profession that do not have knowledge and common ethics. So the answer to whether it's an ideal construction is, no, we should have a different subject. Does the representative have the right to believe that we are close to each other in relation to the parents' right to govern this? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e738	The representative of Dørum commented on my proposal for a full exemption and was somewhat surprised at this proposal. I can't see that there's any dramatic difference between my proposal and the proposal that Dørum is in favour of, about a two-part division of the subject. What I have said, and what I have underlined, is that to the extent that someone needs a full exemption, they should be entitled to it, and then they should have an alternative offer. It's not new, it's something we know from earlier times, where one had an offer of life-viewing. How is this subject to be developed? It becomes a purely knowledge subject, but there will be a strong emphasis on facts about the different religions in such a philosophy of life. One should, of course, continue to have information and knowledge about different religions. So that's where I see it that we're in agreement, and I don't understand why this became a heavy and big point for Dørum, because the consequences of our proposals are quite similar, because I want a subject where a person gets a full exemption, and where an alternative offer with a strong emphasis on facts about the different religions. So a little question to Dørum in the end. Now Inge Wohnning has signaled that he sees the need to change the purpose paragraph. I assume that the two-part division of the subject for which Dørum is involved also has a certain connection with today's purpose paragraph. My question to Dørum is then: Does he agree with Inge Wohnung that there is a need to make a change to the purpose paragraph, so that we get rid of it, for example. what is set aside for Christian faith? I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a draft from different groups for a new purpose paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e745	The reason I expressed my surprise at the proposal of the representative Rikham is that I cannot see that he has outlined an alternative subject, but the church member Dørum shares it with church member Rikham that we want a future subject that is described quite similar. But until we get the future subject, we have today's subject, and my wonder was that the representative Rikham introduces a future subject before it exists, sketches an alternative life vision that is not there now. Then on behalf of the Left, along with the Right, I found it right to deal with today's subject. And based on today's subject, we can't give exemptions from the knowledge part. My cross of thought is that SV really believes that one should choose away from the knowledge section, where Christians must learn about Islam and Islam that there is Christianity. It's part of reality that belongs to it. So that's where we're separating layers, because we can't introduce a subject that doesn't now exist, and then say that we're giving a full exemption. It would have been a lot more consistent if the representative Requam had actually gone into the reasoning line that the Left and Right have. With regard to the question of the purpose paragraph, we are in the interesting situation that representatives of three different parties, the Right, the Socialist Left and the Left, represented by active church representatives, have the common position that we should soon look at the purpose paragraph in its context and in its entirety. The left has a vision and a response to that of the major selection programme that applies to the selection of the harvest. I'm not going to bring it up now, but I think that discussion deserves a context and a width that is different from what today's CRL subject debate adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e752	I don't get a little surprised when I hear what kind of definition Dørum has of the Labour Party's stand on this matter. I fully accept that the correction I have made earlier today has created some confusion, but to claim that this means that we stand for a narrowing of the exemption is to misunderstand completely. I said in my previous post that the plural commentary of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party that contained the word 'not' was inconsistent with what the Workers' Party previously meant. I therefore refer to the note where the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party say the following: ‘The majority would point out that the notification form must be based on a liberal definition of what can reasonably be regarded as the conclusion or exercise of other religion. The possibilities of exemptions must therefore not be restricted in relation to what the department has so far assumed in respect of exemptions from defined religious or religious activities within or outside the classroom.» My question is, how can the representative Dørum claim – and define it as – that the Workers' Party's view means a narrowing in relation to today's exemption model?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e763	My observation – or wonder or what is to be called – arises when the representative Uppøen Hansen goes to the pulpit in a debate and corrects a remark in a position he himself has been in for. He then corrects one word in the setting – ‘not’ – but, according to my knowledge and observation, he did not comment on the rest of the comment – which is actually on several lines, on pages 5 and 6. If I now, after the last article, should perceive that there is no one of these that applies to the Workers' Party, it is at best created a situation where I am confused as to where the Workers' Party stands. But if it's true that the text is as it is, except for the word 'not', then I maintain that this is a restriction. And then I'm very surprised why the Workers' Party could not be together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on the note on page 6 of the position, because it was these three parties that designed the subject in their time. I then understood that they designed the subject with an exemption that is more expeditious than the one I think has been expressed in writing. So either there is confusion about the Workers' Party's position by removing from the whole common comment of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, or it is created a narrowing in the sense that the word 'not' is deleted. And I still don't feel that clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e778	We are now talking about a subject that will provide the basis for our young people to work up tolerance and respect the way they see others. I think that the tone of the debate has been somewhat acidic, and I am not sure that, as politicians, we are going to set a good example in this way today. But I thought I'd talk about the subject more generally – not so much about the changes – than the representatives who are doing this in more detail. I'm going to be a little personal, not because my personal experiences are so interesting in themselves, but I think they'll illustrate some points. When our daughter 20 years ago started school, we as parents had to decide whether to teach Christianity or not. We did not know then – and we were not alone – that everything in 1969 was forbidden to attend school. What we knew was that many teachers did just that, and that parents who took it up were shown that they could apply for exemptions, possibly get alternative life-view orientation. There wasn't such an offer at the Fun School at Tromøy in East Agder. However, we chose to apply for an exemption, enough to irritate the teacher who would then have to carry out the Christian training — and possibly the mission — to the subject itself. It's just as bad that one student -- after each other -- didn't have a job. They managed everything from the next school year to offer alternative life-viewing, which we very much appreciate, even though the scheme was not the best. When we moved to Klepp on Jären and Orstad school, we did not meet the same understanding. They didn't have to offer alternative life-viewing, but they could have interpreted the law liberally and at least offered the years that all three of our kids went to the same school. In the beginning, they took care of it by adding the teaching of Christianity to the first or last school, after which it was also gone. The supply was media-signed – to the extent that the school at all cared. It was a lot harder for us as parents when our kids didn't get anything to offer. There was kind of an exemption to the freedom of knowledge, and we wouldn't. At least there was a lot of demands on us when it was crazy to try to fill the holes they got. I mention this to remind you that there were great disadvantages in the old system. Therefore, I was very happy when it was worked out – and agreed – plans for a common subject. The worst thing about the former system was that she Divided elephants into groups based on the way parents lived was an undermining of the single ball For me – and for the Workers’ Party – it is absolutely crucial that the elephants acquire knowledge and knowledge of different types of threats and different ways of life in Norway and in the world else. Of course, they must have the most knowledge of the religion that has the greatest impact on Norwegian society, in order to understand our history and culture. But it should be the same thing after all, of course, that they learn something about other religions and the way they live in an increasingly multicultural society. Knowledge and knowledge come into contact with the different religions and the philosophy of life – of course through books and through what is written on the board, but not least by meeting people who have different views of life. Just like that, I think, you can have a developed insight and tolerance. It doesn't do that by sending different life-vision elephants into different classrooms. It does one by teaching each other from and to and to each other in common space. For this reason, I am pleased that a plural number once again bets on this common subject, which I believe will be a cornerstone of the Norwegian university sphere ahead as well, and which will lay the foundation for tolerant people with insight and respect for both equality and inequality. The conclusions of Erik Møse's statement include: that full exemption rights are the safest, but that limited exemption rights will not conflict with international conventions in this field. The ‘safest’ has been evaluated in relation to international conventions. In our society, in my opinion, the safest thing to do is to keep the common subject and make it the subject so that the need for exemption is minimised. It is the safest thing for young people, for parents and for social development. That's the most important thing. When at the same time there is no conflict with international conventions in this field, I am very satisfied with it. Of course, I'm in agreement with the adjustments and clarifications that a multiple has come up with. I would like to commend the committee for doing a good and independent job in this context. Mainly, with a variety of figures, one has emerged to support the Government’s proposals. I can live well with the name «Christianity, religious and life philosophy», although I think «Faith and vision of life» is better and simpler. We tried for many hours at night to get the name that was adopted today, when we adopted this subject in 1996. So it goes forward, step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e809	Let me first join the honor given to the case rapporteur and the committee for a well-worked work. A consensus has been reached in most areas on a matter which is politically quite controversial. St.meld. No 32 is a response to the Storting's mission and based on the Storting's assumption that the purpose paragraph is maintained and that Norway's international obligations are to be respected. Furthermore, the notification is based on evaluation reports and a broad consultation round with relevant organisations. As can be seen, the Government wants a review of the subject and a strengthening of the right to exemption. In the review of the subject, professionals with different religious positions shall be involved. I am pleased to note that in the committee position there is a majority of the most important of the Government's proposals. We've become a multi-religious society in Norway, and we need to know each other. We've got more religions, different directions within Christianity and a more diverse society. Human-Ethical Union has grown. We have to take the consequences of that kind of society in school as well. It is important that a society that is to be democratic not only relates to the majority but also provides space for and respects the rights of the minority. We want to achieve that with this review. Our objective is a common field of knowledge. The trade shall be a subject of knowledge; it shall not be possible to distance itself from basic factual knowledge of Christianity or other religions and views of life. The subject is and shall be an ordinary school subject which shall normally gather all pupils and the teaching of the subject shall not be a public service. At the same time, we know that the subject affects important aspects of the individual’s religious beliefs. Therefore, we will implement measures that better than today ensure the right to exemption from part of the teaching according to a liberal definition of the term ‘religious activities in or outside the classroom’. Students must gain knowledge of different religions and views of life through the subject, not training for a particular faith. Faith training is the task of parents and their respective beliefs and beliefs. The aim of the subject is, among other things, to: providing students with a common knowledge, culture and value base and promoting understanding, respect and dialogue between people with different beliefs and outlooks of life. The compartment has an important bridge builder function. It's more important than ever, because different perceptions of life, religion and value have become part of the reality of the country around the last decades. In this context, the school has a unique position as a common venue for all children and young people. The interests of the subject are widely endorsed by religious and life-view societies and teachers’ organisations. Nevertheless, some believe that an unlimited exemption from the subject should be introduced on the basis of the argument about parental or religious freedom. However, in the government's view, full exemption will undermine the objective and possibility of a life-seening subject at school. I am therefore very pleased to record broad political agreement in Stortinget that the subject should continue as a common subject. Without basic knowledge of Christianity and other religions and views of life, it is difficult – not to say impossible – to understand our society in Norway. Here, society's need for knowledge of each other must be the important thing. For various reasons, the right of exemption has been exercised in different ways locally and on the one hand restrictively in relation to the assumptions of the Storting and the Ministry on the other. An important challenge is to design exemption schemes in accordance with their intentions. That's why we're doing two things: Firstly, general information to the school and parents on the content, structure and working methods of the subject should be improved centrally and locally, inter alia. for the development of a multi-language subject manual. Secondly, the procedure for notifying the exemption must be simplified and clarified. This will be done by drawing up a standard notification form that the school and its parents can use. And let me stress: here the parents' opinion should be crucial, such as, among other things. The buoy Hansen has clarified in relation to the Workers' Party's remark. In the case of a request for exemption, it shall be sufficient to tick the form without justification. The school shall, without further consideration, exempt such notification. The parents shall have the essential word. The application for exemption in addition to these defined activities shall state the reasons on which it is based. I assume that the schools here exercise concrete discretion. Here, too, the school has to show a great deal of flexibility. I record that we have not received the consent that Christianity should have 50 p.m. in the subject and the other areas 50 p.m., but that the majority concludes by 55/45. I take note of that. I still think it would have been important to have 50/50. Although there are not many school hours involved, it would have been of great importance to those affected. I also record that we have not reached the conclusion of a change in the name of the subject in the direction proposed by the Government. I think it would also have been a better name, but I take note that the committee believes that it should be called "Christianity, religion and life views" and will work out from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e850	It is true, as the Council of State said, that for the purposes of the notification, there are now two research reports to follow up the 1996 comment that a person wants to get a picture of the exercise of the right of exemption after a three-year period. Now, the evaluation shows that the right of exemption is being practised very differently. Many want exemption to be more liberal, especially in small schools, as the Christian People's Party has pointed out in a comment. The Council of State now pointed out that parents should have the decisive word in the context of activities, etc. What I want to refer to then is what is stated in the message on page 52: ‘However, if the municipality decides that the student is not reasonably able to experience the training as an exercise of another religion or as an association with other aspects of life, the application may be refused.’ Here I would like to see the deepening of the Council of State: what is the meaning of this? What does this mean for the municipality to be a kind of over-judgment? And what can be examples of rejection? – Yes, at all: how should this be practised in relation to the form a department says it should draw up? After all, the Christian People's Party wants parental rights to be respected, and we feel that the Council of State in this communication at that point is tightening up in relation to the treatment of the Stortinge. We have had many debates in this Chamber on private schools and have seen that the Council of State has a more restrictive view of this than the Christian People's Party. But I imagine that a restrictive attitude right here can actually lead to a larger bloom of private schools. That is not the biggest problem for the Christian People's Party, but I think it would be for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e862	No, on the contrary, it is not a restriction; it is a liberalisation of the right to free movement. I have registered several speakers here earlier today who have had the same interpretation as Scarbøvik, and therefore it is a pleasure to be able to clarify it. When it is stated in the notification, and also in the comments of the Workers' Party in the vote, that we must have a form which clearly defines the activities for which there is a basis for exemption and that it should be an absolute right for parents to be exempted from those activities, it is liberalisation in relation to practice today. Today, I think there are many parents who have experienced – and I have heard many who have said that – that they have to have theological examination to convince the teacher that they actually have the right to exemption. It shouldn't be like that. Parents shall not be in a position to obtain exemptions in the areas in which exemption is to be granted. In this context, we are fully in line with the Right and Left in their comments, because they also have to divide the subject into a part for which there should be an exemption, and a part for which there should be no exemption. The only difference is that they should split it into a separate subject for which there should be no right of exemption and one for which there should be a right of exemption. There is no one here in the Chamber, except SV, who proposes full exemption for the entire CRL subject – the only difference is how to classify it for which there should be a right of exemption, and for which there should not be a right of exemption. We even go further than the Right and Left in this case, because we say that in all parts of the subject it should be possible to apply for an exemption, if you believe it for personal religious reasons. But we don't go so far as to say that no matter what part of the subject you are applying for exemption, it should be the parent's provision. It will be to introduce full exemption rights, and the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are in fact united not to want full exemption rights in the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e871	The council said St.meld. No 32 is an answer to the Stortinget order – I agree – and that the answer is given to the premises and within the limits requested by the Stortinget. The Council of State further stated that training of faith is the responsibility of the religious and life-view societies themselves. I fully agree with that. That is why, on the right, at least, we are not convinced of the wisdom of the proposal for a name that the Council of State itself has presented, which is just inviting for misunderstandings on this point. Two things I would like to interpellerate the council a little bit more. One is the offensive that the Committee agrees on is necessary in order to strengthen the competence of teachers in this field, because it is a quite significant backlog and deficit of professional competence. It also shows the evaluation report. Does the State Council, as members of the Workers' Party in the Committee, believe that this can be done within the relatively narrow framework of continuing training for teachers? If he doesn't mean it, does he intend to do anything about this? And then this one about the right of exemption, where I think the Council of State was surprisingly creative in its answer to the previous line. I must therefore ask the question: how does the Council of State read the majority comment from the Labour Party and the Progress Party that has been the subject of numerous attempts at clarification rounds in this debate? In 1997 the Workers' Party joined with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party and made the compromise that applied at the time. In the committee position, the Labour Party has joined forces with the Advance Party instead, and the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have a special comment that clearly indicates that they want a more liberal understanding of the right of exemption. Does the Council of State read the majority comment of the Progress Party to which the Workers' Party has joined, in a completely different way from all the others, because this majority comment has the main purpose of not ‘diluting the limits’ of the exemption right, and that must be a reasonably restrictive position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e882	First of all, the name. It is well possible that there are other and better suggestions than «Faith and vision of life». I have not registered that the Right has made any better suggestions. I think it would have been an advantage to change the name that better illustrates that the different religions in the name should be qualitatively equal. I know that there are many who have been concerned about it, and I wish that the Right too had come to meet those wishes. In the case of continuing training, it is of course resource-intensive. We spend a lot of money training teachers every year. Whether the total amount has to increase in order to meet a higher level of continuing education needs in relation to the CRL, or whether it is possible to make redeployments in the training we operate at all times, we get back to each year's budget. So to the right of exemption: it's just Inge Wage that can use half a big debate on something that's solved like an incursion. The word ‘not’ shall not be used in the case of the Workers' Party. I wish that wages could only take note of it and not run that debate. The check-out form shall grant an absolute right of exemption. Furthermore, the Workers' Party's remark states that the other applications, which go beyond that form, must 'prove a high degree of flexibility'. There must be a relatively liberal system – I can't believe it should be a tightening of today's system. On the contrary, the evaluation shows that many have experienced little flexibility. But then you put down a frontier post, and that's to say that the exemption should not be so large that it becomes a full right of exemption. We also have no full exemption right today, so it is impossible to limit the exemption right to say that you should not have full exemption in the future either. That is what has been part of the discussion here, and I am now also recording that the Right is not in favour of a full exemption for the entire KRL subject. They want a part of the subject to be compulsory for all, without the right of exemption – not even the right of exemption that lies here – and then have a part for which there is a right of exemption. So it becomes more a question of how to divide it, than what kind of exemption you should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e891	I will first be allowed to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Council of State emphasises the important principle of understanding the Norwegian society, as the Progress Party has done and has done for a very long time. This is linked to religion, and religion is closely linked to the cultural development and understanding of a country. At the same time, however, we must not forget that religion has at all times created disunity, even war and corruption, often under cover of confusion and conversion. I think that if I say Torquemada, Spain, we all know what we're connected to just that. What I think is important, and which I want to address in connection with the posts of the Council of State, is exemption. We all, in all denominations and within all religions, have religiously dependent intolerance. We also have clear and well-thought-out differences of interpretation and rules within Christianity that can be interpreted as intolerance, and that in fact in this room it will be – both look and often. Among other things, we have a congregation in Norway called ‘read-adians’. If parents in this congregation use the Council of State form as the Council of State would have it, without justification, should they get their exemption, as you can easily understand it here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e902	Let me first say that I believe the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party have a fundamentally different view of a multicultural and multi-religious society. We think it's positive. We believe that it is enriching to have a society that consists of many religions and many different ethnic groups, and that it gives us a richer life. But it requires a little of us in relation to, among other things. to organize our school. It takes some of us to create meeting places for different religions, to get to know each other, to learn each other's traditions and values. And especially when we get into a religious profession at school, this becomes demanding. Therefore, we need to show great flexibility in relation to individual groups and individuals who want exemption from the subject. That's why we have to take one part of the subject that we know is problematic, and say here there has to be an absolute right of exemption for the parents. That's where we agree. There's actually a broad consensus in this room. The right and the left also mean that we should separate one part of the subject, where there should be full exemption. But then we have the remaining part of the subject, what someone calls the knowledge part. There are some people who believe that there should be a part that is to be distinguished as a subject of their own, and that there should be no exemption from it at all. We don't mean that. We believe that it must also be possible to apply for an exemption there. Because there may be individuals who also experience that part as problematic in relation to their own religion. So it's not going to be an absolute right to get an exemption there, but it has to be an opportunity. And the possibility of applying for an exemption in that area will be provided in a flexible way by the municipality, either by granting exemptions or perhaps by reserving education in such a way as to satisfy as much as possible. I don't want to go back to the time when some people were sent out of the classroom when you were going to talk about these questions, I want to get to a common subject where there is a minimum need for exemptions, and where students and young people with different religious positions and religious backgrounds are together for hours and learning about each other, with equivalency and respect as a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e913	As the rapporteur, I would like to say that the communication has many good answers and suggestions for improvement measures for the CRL subject. It is positive that the notification reproduces the consultation opinions of the main interest groups, together with 14 annexes. And the evaluation reports are presented in a complete way. This has made it easy to get into the fabric. As has been shown by my statement and the reply, the Central Party supports the message, with some important exceptions, as it does with the name and interpretation of the right of exemption. The programme of the Central Party for both the current and future periods highlights the importance of the exemption, and this is reflected in the comments we are behind. I had a couple of questions to the Council of State that I think were partly answered, but then I'm going to twist them a little bit. It is clearly said from the Council of State that the exercise of the right of exemption is more liberal. That's point one. But he didn't answer Scarbøvik's question about what's on page 52. And then I ask, what kind of leadership will the Council of State give to the municipality and the State Education Office in this area? If there are doubts, it is the municipality that has to decide. So the municipality's judgement is going to be the ultimate parent. It badly harmonizes with the enthusiasm the Council of State has now shown for the freedom he has underlined. So another question: the majority have said that there is a great deal of better training for teachers. We have also said that this cannot happen without increased resources. Then I ask: What disciplines in the field of continuing education were the State Council's intention to be deprioritised from the state to improve continuing education in the CRL field?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e924	I just want to answer the last one briefly first. It is the case that every year there are different needs for continuing training. You have new subjects that are introduced. You have a change of trades, you have a new technology, etc. So you have a certain variation from year to year in what you do in continuing education. It is also possible here to find room for a prioritization of the CRL subject, but that's what we get back to in each year's budget. So to the grounds of exemption. I note that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party agree that this should not be a full right of exemption. That's where we stand. It shall not be possible to choose from mere factual knowledge of other religions and views of life or ethics and philosophy. The problem arises on the day that there are parents who believe that what the representative Tingelstad believes is pure factual knowledge, however, one should be fully exempted, with some justification. Then there has to be an assessment inside the picture, otherwise you could just as well introduce full exemption rights, which we agree we should not introduce. I think what is said in the comments of the Christian People’s Party and the Centre is that ‘a message which has been extended for a reason must be handled primarily on the basis of respect for parental rights,’ – but they do not say absolutely that it is for parents’ own choice to decide – ‘with the aim of finding solutions that can satisfy parents, pupils’ needs as far as possible, while respecting the needs of the community’s needs for a common subject’, is a good formulation. I can join it. I think it's a description of how practice should be, and that's also within a lot of what we say in the message. Although we say that the municipality must be able to make a choice, we say time and time again in the message that it should be practised flexibly, and that there should be a good dialogue between home and school. But I do not share the criticism contained in the note from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party against the message at that point, because I believe it is misunderstood. On the contrary, it must be a flexible dialogue. And the best thing is whether the result is not that the student has to be exempted, but that the school, the class, the parents together come up with a teaching system that works both for the individual and for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e935	A purpose paragraph has symbolic meaning. What this debate has revealed so far is that there is a broad consensus here in the Chamber that we need to change today's purpose paragraph. Right, Left, SV and the Workers' Party are clear that we need to make changes, adjustments to this paragraph, given that we have become a pluralist society, a society where different religions meet differently than before, and where we have heavy, large minority groups. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Will he take the initiative to change the purpose paragraph? If he does, there's a lot of reason to think that he'll get a majority in the hall for such a change. It may be an important symbolic act in relation to minority groups to make that change, in parallel with adjusting, changing the subject. Although we do not get a majority in favour of our proposal, parties have stated that they agree with this and that there is a need for this. It is therefore up to the Council of State to take this initiative on its own initiative and then to make a proposal. So my question is, will he do this? The next question is how the Council of State sees the future subject. The Council of State has now clarified that he sees that we are going to create a subject from which there is still a need for exemption. Does not the Council of State see, or does he not want to see – I do not know what is the reason – the possibility of creating a subject where there is no need for exemption? That is to say, we're doing a real common cause that everyone can agree on, where no one needs an exemption. Will that be the goal of the Council of State in the audit work that he is now launching?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e944	With regard to the purpose paragraph, we have chosen to keep it out of this discussion, because the purpose paragraph applies to the entire school's activities, not only to the CRL subject. It may well be possible that it should be addressed on another occasion. At least it belongs naturally in the discussion after the state/church selection has finished its setting. However, there may also be possible adjustments to the current objective paragraph that better cater for the interests of different groups. There are no concrete plans for this in us per year. Today, but we'll get back to that if that's the case. So to the future subject. I share the Rikvam's goal of a trade with the lowest possible need for exemption. But this is a subject that deals with an area that is delicate. Going in and learning the children about religious questions, giving them knowledge of different religions and ways of life, is something that affects very central parts of the values and fundamentals of individuals. That's why I think that in the future there may be a need for an exemption right, that you have the opportunity to be exempted from things that you personally experience as problematic religious activities. Nor should we risk the future subject becoming so inconclusive or so unexcitable that you never get into the problem that someone feels that things are going too far. Learning about, for example: different religions also consist of seeing the different ceremonies and activities, but there may be individuals who see it as problematic. Although we have common objectives on a subject that has a common platform and a minimum need for exemption, I believe that in the future there will also be a need for the valve that an exemption is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e951	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e954	One of my first tasks as a wholesaler was to represent my party in a debate in the Oslo Workers' Society on the KRL subject. Those who had called for the debate were groups of people who protested against the subject. ==References== 80 pst. of the developed, perhaps more, were manifestly of foreign cultural origin. My impression was that most of them were Muslims. Of course, this isn't a very unusual move in Oslo. We also see that many of the strongest protests against the CRL have come from Muslim environments. A concrete and fresh example is the stoppage that has been out of Storting today and yesterday. Another concrete example is this e-mail that part of us received a few days ago, from the Muslim General Council in Rogaland. In the e-mail it is called, among other things, Muslim parents believe that the CRL subject is coercive and creates a sense of coercion, which in turn weakens the trust between religious minorities and the authorities, and may make the process of integration more difficult. The Council also believes that the subject sends alarming signals and that both its name and content need to be changed. One concludes with full exemption from the CRL subject for everyone who wants it. The Council's view is in line with many other requests in the process we have been through. With regard to the claim of coercion and that the CRL subject makes integration difficult, we believe in the Progress Party that these claims are fundamentally wrong. As I said in my reply to the representative Tingelstad earlier today, Christianity is a very central part of Norwegian society and our history. We see in Norway an integration policy that has almost failed. There are deep canyons in many places between immigrants and us ethnic Northmen. I am convinced that one of the main reasons for this is that immigrants know too little about Norwegian conditions. Too little information has been given, and too little has been put into our way of life and our history and our religion. That we should then reduce or exempt from a subject that can actually help to give immigrants an understanding of our religion and cultural heritage must be a fundamental flaw in integration. This is also the background to the fact that I want us to be very restrictive in terms of exemptions. It is clear, of course, that the rules of exemption must be applied in the same way across the country, and there must be due respect for minority religions in education, but all children and young people must have an understanding of the central place our religion has in our society and in our history. We cannot achieve real integration before immigrants who have a starting point in culture and religion that is remote from our own, get a good knowledge of our language, get a better understanding of Norwegian conditions, a better understanding of our background, our culture and our religion. Derogation is therefore a service of bears to immigrants — and in particular to those who are long-term cultural. The only area where I can actually agree with the Muslim General Council in Rogaland is the need for qualitatively good textbooks. On the part of the Council, it was claimed that there are a number of errors and misleading information on Islam in some of the trade books used. This is alarming. Of course, books should be good, and teachers' skills must be good in the field in which they teach. Schools must take this type of claim seriously and review the educational material used and ensure that the teachers employed have the necessary competence and understanding of the religions they are to inform about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e977	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e980	The new CRL subject was introduced in 1997, cf. Inner. S. No 15 for 1995-1996 and Innst. S. No 103 for 1995-1996. Behind this majority position there was a broad foundation, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. I feel the need to mention this first from Stortingen's pulpit, because it has stuck to the impression that it is the Workers' Party that has introduced the subject in 1997 alone. The intentions behind the new CRL subject were good. By creating a common arena where students with different beliefs and different views of life were together, dialogue, tolerance and transparency were to be achieved in different directions of faith. But unfortunately, the KRL subject has caused a lot of unrest. Since the introduction of the subject in 1997, protests have been high and numerous. Parents and children have demonstrated against the subject several times, and it's not just Muslims; it's almost all religious minorities. In a multicultural society, the new CRL subject contributes to the fragmentation and uncertainty of many parents and students. Much of the unrest I think is due to the name, which seems provocative to all non-Christians. In addition, my and many others' experience is that in the practice of the subject, Christian education is given priority to the other religions. This makes the KRL subject a Christian subject. It seems exclusive when one religion is preferred to others. Changes proposed by the Workers' Party Government in St.meld. No 32, is a step in the right direction. For example, at least the name «Faith and Vision of Life» expresses much better the content of the subject. The majority will still have a name that is roughly equal to what we have today. Furthermore, the same majority will retain today's division of learning material. Because of this, I have great difficulty in seeing other religions recognised in line with Christianity. I feel that this is a religious and a political struggle instead of a struggle for what is best for the community. As it looks, the majority don't want peace around this subject. Religious minorities will feel excluded, and they create distances and not communities. I am personally not surprised at the views of the central parties and the Progressive Party on this matter. On the other hand, I find the right role quite remarkable. It is revealing that on the one hand, the Right will not restrict the right of exemption, while on the other hand, one will create a common arena for all students through cultural protection, a common part with religion, life vision and philosophy/ethics. Finally, I am seriously concerned about the Norwegian community. The distance between religious minorities and the majority does not diminish after the current treatment of this bigotry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e997	We are now entering the final phase of this debate, and I must say that the wonder has been great, given what has created confusion for both the representative Wage from the Right and the representative Dørum from the Left, and claims by the Christian People's Party Elsa Scarbøvik that the Labour Party is violating the right of exemption. I see it as the only word 'not' that has created this confusion. Let me make it clear that the first part of the note where the word ‘not’ is originally a comment submitted from the Progress Party. The remaining part of the note has been submitted from the Working Party. But I'm going to do it again: when it comes to the standard form, the Labour Party wants an automatic exemption from the areas that have religious or religious character. And there is absolutely no intrusion – on the contrary: the form will clarify to the school and parents what kind of right students have to exempt from participation in such areas. So I'll try to be a little concrete. What does that mean, and what does the Workers' Party want automatic exemption from? Yes, the Workers' Party wants an exemption from learning prayers, truddling, religious texts, and boding, that one can seek exemption from singing hymns or getting involved in religious texts. We would like it to be automatic in getting an exemption from being present in churches, mosques, synagogues or other religious parish houses when it is the practice of a religious ritual, and we would like to have an automatic exemption from being on the tour to church or other religious parish houses during the practice of a religious ritual, and various other things – I could have continued with that list. But it's very important to have it concrete. So a little bit about the question about the authority of the municipality to exercise discretion. This is true of activities that lie there in greysona, and the estimation is important in many ways. The Council of State has also been involved. It is important that the municipality has this. They can then also assess whether the training can be adjusted, so that the student can still be included in the subject – in other words, they can also change the content of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1008	The question of the right of exemption became a central issue in the debate. The reason is, of course, that this is an important question, but also that there has been a need to clarify what the Workers' Party really thinks about the exercise of the right of exemption. In the course of the debate, I note the following: the representative, Mr Hansen, has left his own majority comment with the Progress Party, and will automatically grant the right to exemption from religiously-dominated activities. I also note that the Council of State stresses that for those parts of the trade which go beyond activities, there must be a great deal of flexibility. Furthermore, the Council of State says that he agrees with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party that an application must be handled primarily on the basis of respect for parental rights. These are signals that I am satisfied with, and I assume that the municipalities are informed about it. But in addition, the Christian People's Party and the Center believe that it would have been most appropriate for a notification form to be drawn up here, and that there is a great deal to be done to enable a municipality to test the parents' perception of what is violating its own religion or view of life. We believe it will serve the conclusion of the subject that the right of exemption is so liberalized, especially in the case of young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1016	The end of the Shahbaz Tariq post was a clear and strong message to the majority. However, I was a little surprised, because the Workers' Party represents the majority of most of the major questions in this position, so I had probably expected that the conclusion might have been an invitation to support SV's proposal – if there were to be a link between what was said and the conclusion. Then to the Council of State. On my question about the need to change the purpose paragraph, he says he will probably wait and look at the state/church investigation. And it's a strange thing what state/church has to do with this, because I thought that the ties between church and school were so far broken. So this has absolutely nothing to do with that investigation. If he's going to wait for us to finish it, it can take quite a while. I hope that there was a mistake by the Council of State, so that he should not await the state/church investigation to clarify it, but can start this work regardless of what the conclusion might be regarding the state/church. Because, as I said, it has quite little to do with each other. Inge Wohnning actually held a little exciting post today, where in many ways he also had a settlement with the Right School vision, where he was then concerned that we had a school that might have become too intellectual, there was too little room for experiences, and some such things. If these are new signals from the Right, we might be in front of a slightly more exciting debate with the Right too. Because I guess this applies not only to the CRL subject, but to the general fact that our school is too professional, too academic, too intellectually oriented, and that there is too little room for other parts, which have to do with experience, which have to do with creativity, and which have to do with practical things. If that's the signal from the Right today, we'll probably meet up and find many exciting solutions along with the Right. He also had a reflection around majority and minority and democracy, where I share most of what he said. But then it's the conclusions. He says he wants to attend and evaluate the purpose paragraph, but when it happens, he won't say. A natural consequence of the little lecture he had about minorities and the majority, about democracy and respect for minorities, should be that he did something about the purpose paragraph. In addition, he should have supported the SV's proposals and the leaders we are trying to put forward in terms of the future content of the subject. He has had the opportunity to take the consequences of his position. He didn't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1027	I thank you for your kind visit. To the extent that it was a settlement with the Right School Policy, I must have been unconscious at the moment. What I was trying to express is just the Right Knowledge Vision, and I think it was actually a reasonably comprehensive expression of what has been and is the Right View of it. Let me also make it clear that for me there is a significant difference between intellectual and intellectual. There's nothing wrong with being intellectual. What I criticise, as the evaluation report also does, is that if one side emphasises one approach to reality, one does not become intellectual, but intellectual – and that is something else. Like the representative, Reikvam, I was quite surprised by the article from Shahbaz Tariq, more specifically the last part of the post. After all, the representative Tariq must be aware that what has created the unrest and the conflict around the subject, not least from the point of view of life, is the result of a compromise reached by the Labour Party in 1997 with the central parties. And he must be aware, after today's debate, that the Labour Party in this position has in a way signed out of the compromise with the centre parties in its time, and instead entered into a compromise with the Progress Party. You could call it an incurrency, of course, if you get hurt to say the opposite of what you mean, that's a friendly way to characterize it. But the problem, which is still unsolved after the submissions from the Upebøen Hansens side, is what the whole of this common note really means. I perceive the answers of the Council of State instead so that he agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party has said in its note on page 6. But is it so to understand that the Council of State has a different view of exemption from that of the majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party? When the Workers' Party has found it necessary to leave its former conciliators, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and instead make a settlement with the Advancement Party, there must be a meaning behind it. And I still cannot see that the Council of State has given an answer to what he himself means by what is quoted from the message, on page 6 of the setting: ‘However, if the municipality decides that the student cannot reasonably experience the training as an exercise of other religion... the application may be rejected’. Instead, the Council of State said: ‘... things that are perceived as problematic, or religious activities yourself.’ But in fact, the message says that the municipality should try this experience, and if the municipality is not satisfied with the evidence of the experience, then the municipality should refuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1043	Let me first say that I think it is absolutely incredible that when a representative from the Workers' Party at the first post has cleared up an incursion in the setting, the representative uses the remainder of the debate to talk about the Workers' Party having gone away from a position, or created a ambiguity. The best clarity would certainly have been created if the representative from the Right did as the 164 other representatives here in the hall usually do when clearing up the incurities, taking note of it. The comment to which the representative refers, the joint comment from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, remains the following two points: firstly, that the municipality must exercise discretion in dealing with applications for exemptions and show great flexibility, and secondly, that it should not, however, give the degree of exemption that there will be full exemption – and that it may not be a surprise. If this is still not clear, I think it's going to be difficult to get it clear even if we're going to attend the evening meeting. Then we may have to do it in writing in some way. So to the comment that the Right and the Left have, it says here that you have to divide the subject into one part that is to be a piece of knowledge – here there's no question of exemption – and another part that is religious practice, and here there's to be a right of exemption. But in the case of exemptions from the part that is knowledgeable, it is not a question of municipal discretion or the judgment of a teacher or principal, even if the individual should experience it as a problem in relation to his religion. In fact, there is a narrowing in relation to what is in the majority of the committee. What the representative here says is that someone should sit in advance and decide what is problematic and not problematic, and there should be an absolute rule, because there is no possibility of being exempted from the part that is knowledge-related, even if the individual should experience it as a problem. And that's what's the challenge, because when you're going to teach about different religions -- about Christianity, about Islam, about Judaism, etc. – there is an opportunity for individuals to experience things as problematic, even though a plan committee has said this is unproblematic. That is why we have to have the extra valve that also those parts that are not covered by a form with the defined activities, or are separated as a separate subject, which the representative Wohnung will want, must be able to apply for an exemption and get an assessment of. So the question is, should it be an assessment at all? There is a discussion of full exemption rights, and there is a fairly broad majority in this Chamber who do not want full exemption rights for the entire breadth of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1050	The rhetorical performance of the Council of State cannot – to start with the comments of the Right and the Left – remove the fact that it actually says: ‘Since teaching will not only consist of demarcated activities but has religious content, it must be possible to reserve itself for individual activities as well as for the acquisition of the content of teaching.’ When we want this to be sorted, it is in order to have a binding relationship with international conventions on religious freedom. If we now choose to ignore what the Workers' Party might have meant with the Advancement Party, one can get a clarification by asking the Council of State the following question: Does he share the views expressed in the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party on page 6? Here they problematize what the municipality can test, and say: ‘These members believe that there is a great deal to be done to enable a municipality to over-estimate parents’ perception of the violation of its own religion/sense of life.’ This is a response to what the department itself has said, namely: ‘However, if the municipality decides that the student is not reasonably able to experience the training as an exercise of another religion or as an association with other aspects of life, the application may be refused.’ It's this sort of thing that makes the parental-controlled exemption run, and it doesn't help to say that you're going to be raw, flexible, wise and wise when you've made this fence. In my view, the Council of State can clarify that he still has a liberal interpretation of exemption by saying that he supports the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, because that was the subject of dispute for us who followed the debate in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1070	First, to the comment that Dørum himself has on where it says: ‘Since teaching will not only consist of demarcated activities but has religious content, it must be possible to reserve itself for individual activities as well as for the acquisition of the content of teaching.’ But it's about the part of the teaching that you've been separating as problematic. With regard to the knowledge section, as mentioned in the section above, no exemption has been granted. In my view, it means a smaller possibility for parents to take exemptions from parts that they may experience as problematic, even though a plan committee has said that this belongs to the knowledge part of the subject. So to the comment of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to which the representative Dørum refers. I think that what is said here about going as far as possible in respecting parents' concerns in relation to their children's education should be respected. But also this note from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party implies setting a limit to the right of exemption. This comment implies, in fact, that a judgement is to be made, an assessment of each exemption application shall be made. What I don't like about the comment is that you think what's in the message is going wrong. With regard to the notification that ‘the municipality will nevertheless find that the student is not reasonably able to experience the training as a practice of another religion or as a connection to other aspects of life, the application may be rejected’, it is precisely in that context that there is a restriction to full exemption. What's in this sentence is that you don't introduce full exemption. It also says ‘can’ the application is rejected; it does not even say ‘shall’ the application is rejected. On the contrary, when parents experience this as a problem, even if it does not go under ‘exercise other religion or associate with other aspects of life’, a great deal of discretion is to be exercised and instruction is to be organised. If not, you should, as far as possible, be sensitive to the wishes and concerns of your parents. Had it not been for this comment to be so critical of what is stated in the message, and in my view also misinterpret what is stated in the message, I think it would have been quite easy for the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party to agree on this part as well. That is why, as was said, it is not a majority of the Labour Party and the Progress Party that are behind the subject – on the contrary, it is a broad majority that supports the main principles that we should have a common subject, we should not have a full right of exemption, but we should have a great degree of flexibility in the exercise of the right of exemption. And not least, which is the most important thing, we need to have a review of the subject in order to reduce the number of subjects and get to a subject that can be as satisfied with as much as possible. It would have been an advantage if also the Right would agree to that 50 pst. will be about Christianity and 50 p.m. should be about the other part, so we also had a balance there, but I record that they don't want to participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1082	No salary has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1085	I note, after the last speech of the Council of State, that he agrees on a case-by-case basis with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party's comment on page 6, and that is a positive clarification. There is no one who has expected the State Council to explain what has taken place in the Committee, nor that the State Council should be able to explain why the Workers' Party has written this whole comment. You've reserved on one sentence, but you haven't reserved on the rest of the comment. Through the debate, the Progress Party has interpreted the whole of this comment in a way that, in my opinion, is reliable and consistent with the wording. The Labour Party has not interpreted it at all – what they really mean, in addition to the one sentence with the one fatal word. Finally, with regard to the sentence that the Council of State itself has entered in the notice, that ‘the municipality nevertheless does not allow the student to reasonably experience the training as a practice of another religion or as a connection to other aspects of life, the application may be rejected’, I would have liked him to have admitted that it is an unfortunate wording, perhaps even an incursion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1094	The last articles of the Council of State also make me feel that the Council of State is in favour of the comment that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have made. We found reason to write this comment just because we were a little bit unsure of what was really in the remark from the department. The uncertainty became even greater when, during the committee work, we experienced that the Workers' Party joined forces with the Advance Party. Now we have realized that what happened in the committee was not fully comprehensive. But it's not from our point of view meant as any criticism as far as what's said in the message, but it's actually an uncertainty about what's really being expressed here. And now I find that the Council of State is in agreement with what the central parties have written in the note, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1104	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1107	I'm going to stick to the friendly interpretation, and it's that the Council of State's content has declared its agreement with what the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have said on page 6 of the vote, and that in my opinion is an attempt to ensure a parental exemption in the areas mentioned there. It does not go as far as I would like, but it goes beyond what has been achieved in committee. And since the words of the Council of State from the pulpit in Storting must be taken into account, I assume that his connection to this chapter will also be the basis for further consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1113	Sigvald Upbeøen Hansen has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1116	I didn't intend to take the word several times in this debate, but I think it's now beginning to limit what we in good telemarketishly call 'chickenspikery', from the representative on the pay side. It is not problematic for the Workers' Party to join the intention of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party to comment on page 6, the last part. But what's the problem for the Labour Party is to join the first part, because there's obviously a little bit of a contradiction. When it comes to the remark that has been mentioned in the debate all day, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which has been clarified earlier, it may not be surprising for the representative, Inge Wohnung, that the Workers' Party supports its members in the Committee. It surprises me that Inge Wohnung in the whole question mark of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1125	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3366]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1139	What matters is support for the partial coverage of school fees for students in foreign or international secondary schools. It was proposed by the Government in the 2001 draft government budget to abandon, without justification, the grant scheme both for this purpose and for supplementary education. In the budgetary procedure, additional education was provided. In retrospect, we see that what was mentioned is supplementary education in primary school. On page 28 of the Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2000-2001 it is stated in a majority opinion, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, that we will ‘return to the subsidy situation of the private schools in the Revised National Budget’. That is why the majority of the Committee, this time the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, have just pointed this out. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have their own comments and also refer to the revised national budget, but they have a more committed note in that context. On behalf of the central parties, I would like to confirm that this is a topic to which we are going to deal with the revised national budget, and I assume that in that context there will be a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1150	I am pleased that the rapporteur made it clear that, in dealing with the revised national budget, the central parties will make proposals to resolve this problem. It should provide good opportunities for a majority to be set up for such a solution. When Right has found it correct to maintain Document No. The 8 in the vote, it's because we think there's a slight twist in the committee majority's reference to budget input. S. No 12 from this fall. For the comment referred to there, the general situation of grants under the Private Schools Act is concerned and does not cover the issue of this Document No. The eight-proposal addresses, which does not relate to the school grant, but which relates to the grant to individual students for the partial coverage of school money. That is why we believe that it is not a satisfactory answer to refer to this majority comment from the budgetary position, because it is really something quite different from what this matter is about. So let me just say to the reality of the matter that there are at least two reasons why we on the Right believe that there is a totally unfair situation for those students – that is also their parents, of course – who are affected by this change. One reason is that it is directly on collision courses with all the proclaimed objectives of internationalisation of the Norwegian community. It is incomprehensible that the Government, if it is serious about the strong declarations on the need for internationalisation, chooses to save a few million dollars on a scheme that is one of the most important contributions to enable Norwegian youth to do this, and also one of the most important contributions to qualifying labour, with family, to Norway. It is true that the vast majority of those living in Norway for a certain period of time make provision for school services that are available in languages other than Norwegian. That's one reason. The second reason is that for students who are in a school course, it must be perceived as deeply unreasonable to be informed by the Loan Fund in March that the financial support will be withdrawn, so that during the next school year they will not receive this support of around NOK 40000. There is a change in the rules of the game along the way that is obviously unreasonable. For these reasons, we have maintained our proposal, because we believe that it is very urgent for the students in this situation to get a clear signal from the Storting that this unfairness will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1163	The President expects the representative to present the Right proposal, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1166	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1171	No salary has been drawn for the right-hand proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1174	The representatives Petersen, Wohnning and Løvik from the Right have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on a matter that we have over time fully financed and worked on. There is therefore, in principle, no reason why we should not be able to join the Right Members in their comments and proposals. There is, however, a small catch by this: the right is only willing to partially cover school money, while the Progress Party will have full economic equality in relation to the choice of school. We've taken the economic consequences of that in the budget-inner. S. No 12th@item: inlistbox I believe that this will continue in future budgetary procedures. We know today that students at Oslo International School will have a dramatic increase in school money on the basis of the interpretation the Government has now made of the legislation on which it is based. This is not appropriate with the great sense that the Council of State seems to show different believers in relation to the CRL subject. Also at the French School, the interpretation has caused extreme concern among parents as regards the amount of supplementary education in Norwegian – a modest amount of DKK 2100 per year. students per year; years. Furthermore, we know that the interpretations involve quite a change in the assumptions for Lycee Francais d'Oslo and for the students who belong to it. It is quite unheard of that in the middle of school there is confusion, uncertainty and anxiety in those who use this school. It is equally clear that these students, who may have to leave because of an increase in school money of NOK 60,000 per year. years, not necessarily available at the school in the vicinity as they wish. I regret to say this: sometimes it seems as if you do not at all assess the consequences of the decisions that are taken and that are sent out in a circular form – and that is not presented to this room for discussion and voting. We will support the Right's proposal in this matter, because partial coverage is clearly a step towards what we think is the right one, namely full economic equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1187	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1201	Representatives Inge Wohnung and Petter Løvik make in Document No. 8:107 suggest that the Government implement as soon as possible measures to improve the learning material situation of blind and partially sighted elephants. This ends with a large multiple, all except SV. In addition, the Committee of the Regions says that the educational curriculum situation must be entirely satisfactory from now on to the fall. SV has a slightly different angle of incidence, and I expect the representative of Rikvam to do the right thing for SV's point of view. This item is not new of date. Several cases have been raised, and the situation of the blind and partially sighted students has improved, but not good enough. It says that some challenges. I am aware that the Ministry is making a lot of effort to get important and good action. Developing own learning material for special groups is important, not least to facilitate a school for all. It is therefore decided by the Department, in cooperation with the Learning Centre, to carry out a targeted work that provides rapid progress and good results. I am also pleased that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee confirms that the Department will follow this matter closely in the future, and that it is a matter of priority, so that the situation of the blind and partially sighted can soon become more satisfactory. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1218	This is an affordable play from the Right, but when we look at what they're proposing, you can wonder what's the point of the proposal, because this is the closest thing we come to a 'good day, man - axe shaft' proposal. Completely satisfactory – what is it now? They haven't even tried to define what it is. They also do not define what the problems are. We're trying to say a little bit about that in our proposal. There are two aspects that are important for the blind and partially alert to educational material. First of all, it's getting enough teaching material, enough textbooks. The second is getting enough teachers who have knowledge in Braille. These are two problems that we're facing, which somehow have to be solved. And then they say that it's going to be "full of satisfaction" without defining what's in the term. We define "full satisfaction" to have two parallel textbooks in each subject. We define that as ‘full satisfaction’, but the majority will not be in it. The current situation is such that you can cover one apprenticeship within each subject, within each class step. That means there's no choice. That is why we need to know whether the majority defines this as 'full satisfaction'. They have defined this as ‘full satisfaction’. I'm not doing it initially, because we know that within the different subjects it is published four-five-six teachings. If we say that at least two of these are going to be in Braille, it opens up a certain choice, and it's also reasonable to achieve such a goal. That's what's in my and SV's proposal. We're trying to put our goals into practice, and commit ourselves to it. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1231	Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1234	I noticed in particular the case rapporteur's words that he was pleased that we are now developing teaching materials. He was also pleased with a rapid progress. It opens up one question: Hasn't the President of the Court, or several others, for that matter, discovered that the blind and weak actually exist in this society, until just now? Blind people are visible, and we should all know that. It's almost so I want to use the expression "I'm ashamed." For several years now, we have been promoting a wide range of proposals by the Progress Party. We have made proposals for solutions. We have made proposals on money in the budgets. We have once had a unanimous committee on a proposal that should have given material content a long time ago, but that has not happened. Blind and very feeble – because we are talking about very weak, and I am also weak, but I am not blind – can and should, in our opinion, be allowed to choose training, either in public school, with all its faults and shortcomings, which are now clarified, with lack of competence, lack of teaching materials, etc., or in a more specialised environment. This proposal was defeated by all the other parties in this Chamber. I know it's elections quite soon, but this is shameful!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1244	The right is very satisfied with the outcome of this matter in the Grand Duchy today, as the proposer. We've had a rather unworthy situation for a very small group in Norwegian school – we're probably talking about 70-80 elephants – who, year after year, haven't had the ability to get an offer of learning material, it's a paper or audiobooks, even if they are given the right to an equivalent training offer with other elephants. The right has raised this matter several times in the form of questions to the Council of State. We brought her up in connection with the changes in the training law. The reason why we are now raising this as an even more binding proposal is that in its time we were reasonably satisfied with what was said by the Government that all textbooks that have been ordered for the 2001-2002 school year will be available at school start. In the letter sent to us by the Council of State in connection with this proposal, it is quite clear – at least between the lines – that the Government does not have the intention to do so. Therefore, we feel that it is necessary to make a proposal that states clearly that it is a satisfactory solution when it comes to textbooks or audiobooks for blind and visually impaired elephants as soon as the school year begins. The books should not only come from publishers or from the Learning Centre or from other places, but they should be in the individual school, outside the individual student. The representative of Rikvam asks questions about what is satisfactory. He has a proposal that does not take account of the proposal that we have put forward today from the Right, namely that we must at least take step number. 1 to get a solution to the fall. The representative, Mr Rikham, suggests that, in the context of next year's budget, we have a solution that is a little better. I share the intentions of Reikvam that just a textbook, it's written in italics or as an audiobook, is not good enough, but where we're going to put the resources in these areas, we're going to look after each other. We will return to this in connection with the budget. But now, like many others, we have to take step number. 1 before we take step number. 2nd@item: inlistbox We are very satisfied with what is presented and, of course, we also recommend that the representative, Mr Rikvam, support Step No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we'll get back to this with greater freedom of choice when we get to next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1255	The majority of the Committee considers that the educational tool situation for the blind and partially sighted makes it difficult to realise the right to equivalent training for this student group. Training and education shall provide all good opportunities for learning and development on the basis of the students' own assumptions. A common school shall provide equivalent, but not necessarily equal, training. Today, many classes will have students with different needs for adaptations both in terms of content and progress. The Ministry shall ensure, according to the Training Act, that textbooks and other teaching aids for special education are drawn up. The Educational Centre and the State Special Educational Support System provide this, also for blind and severely disadvantaged pupils in primary and secondary education. There are a total of 70 blind and severely impaired students in the 13-year-old training course. In 1999, 15 million were used. NOK 18,6 million was used in 2000. kr, i.e. on average NOK 265000 per year. years per year. students, for educational development of this group. The common catalogue 1999-2001, which is also available online, shows the lessons available for the blind and highly debilitated. Per. In November 2000, the catalogue contains 453 descriptor titles, 152 electronic titles and 500 audio book titles. For advanced training, the catalogue contains 392 bitmap titles, 176 electronic titles and 475 audiobook titles. In cases where apprenticeships are not already available, the production environment assesses new production. According to the information I received from the State special educational support system, there were 145 teaching materials in paperpoint, electronic form or as an audiobook for blind and severely feeble students who were delivered late in the school year 1999-2000. The school year 2000-2001 had dropped to 102 late deliveries. For the coming school year, 2001–02, 194 new productions of educational materials have been applied for. In some cases, schools are alternatively offered educational material from the catalogue rather than the production of new works. Of 158 new productions, only seven doctrinal materials will not be available for school start-ups. These seven are as follows: Three titles where the teaching material is divided into A and B books for use in the autumn and spring months respectively. It is here agreed with the schools that the A-books are delivered to school start-ups and the B-books are delivered for the start-up of the spring semester. One title has been ordered so late that the production plan has been added. This book will be delivered during the autumn, as soon as possible. Two Sámi textbooks were agreed to be delivered in September. These books are organized at the school where they will be used, in cooperation with Tambartun Centre of Competence. A book in the field of art and crafts is still to be assessed, because it is only partially suitable for typescript. Part of the substance will be delivered in consultation with the school. In addition, guidance will be provided on how to teach. This overview shows that there has been a very positive development in the field of textbooks for the blind and partially sighted. I believe that blind and severely disadvantaged students with few exceptions, especially those related to late ordering, will receive appropriate education at school start in the autumn of 2001 and that the right to equivalent training for this student group would appear to be well cared for. This suggests that the instruments and measures taken in the light of Ot.prp. No 44 for 1999-2000 and Innst. O. No 89 for 1999-2000, has led to the desired improvements and a good educational tool situation for the blind and partially sighted. The Ministry will follow this field closely in the future, in line with the Committee's decisions and in close cooperation with the support system and the Learning Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1294	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1310	Since 1985 in Norway, we have had a law on private schools which states in the purpose section that the purpose of the law is to ensure the right to establish and operate private schools. There are clear political dividing lines, as we all know, in this room regarding how far to go in terms of equality between private and public schools, and that is not the debate the interpellation intends to take up or invite. My starting point is that the law should ensure the groups of parents who want to start private schools, practical opportunities to do so when the law is fulfilled. We have received an overview from the Council of State regarding the applications currently being dealt with in the Department under the Private School Act. The total number of applications is 49, and the time taken to deal with these applications illustrates the background to my interpellation. The applications that have been waiting for the longest have been pending for two and a half years without a decision. When this is a problem, it is, of course, according to general principles of Norwegian administration. It is very rare in other areas — I am aware — that applicants who wish to have fulfilled a right or have tried a right under legislation must wait so long for an answer. But the second thing is, of course, that the practical reality here is that very often are the groups who want to establish a private school, people who are filled with good spirit and who have a strong motivation, and very often they start organizing some kind of home schooling. Let me take a concrete example of the pending applications. The Ølen municipality in Hordaland has applied for the approval of a montessori school. So it's a pedagogical arrangement that's well-known and that's often approved in the past. The background is that the branch school in the municipality in question was closed. Parents have taken an initiative, and over a school year, they have done so effectively as home schooling. After one year they have still not received an answer to their application, which means that they per year. Today — in the transition from May to June — do not know whether they will be able to start their school offer in August or whether they may need to continue on a regular basis with home schooling for another school year. It's a deeply unsatisfactory situation. Let me also mention one more example, which everyone in this Chamber knows because it has been the subject of quite a lot of political debate. This concerns the Oasen school in Songdalen municipality in Vest-Agder. This school submitted a renewed application on 5 April. after a long and winding history, which we all know. First, it was estimated that the approval had been granted to start last school year, then this approval was withdrawn, and then, through the intervention of the Stortinge, it was created as a basis for a new application procedure. There too, it would be deeply unsatisfactory if one did not manage to finish and clear this before the school year began in August of that year, because it would in practice mean that one would have to wait another school year in uncertainty as to whether it would be possible to start or not. The question to be asked is: What is the reason for such a lengthy procedure when it comes to assessing this type of application? And, in particular, what is the reason why there is such a long period of time in the proceedings also where the form has already been approved? In 49 applications, one of the Steiner Schools has been waiting for one and a half years — it submitted an application on 28 December 1999 and the application has not yet been settled. So this is about schools that follow a standard pedagogical scheme, with standard syllabuses that have been approved many times before. So there can be no need for a fundamental review of this side of the case. Let me make it clear that I have been guilty of a slight misunderstanding regarding the reference to Swedish practice in this area. I have been informed that in the Swedish law, the provision is such as to understand – and this is well to mark the statutory – that everyone who has submitted an application by 1 April the calendar year in question is absolutely sure to clarify the matter, so that they can start up the following calendar year. I have also gained experience that the average time for dealing with these applications in Sweden is less than half a year, and not from one to two months, as stated in the inter-pellation text. Nevertheless, the point is the same: there is a striking difference between Swedish practice in this area and Norwegian practice, and I have tried to figure out why. I have come to the conclusion that the most obvious explanation is that the Swedish legal text – and this is not a specific private school law, it is part of the Swedish school law – is considerably simpler than the Norwegian law. It says briefly that if a school essentially holds the same professional level as the public school, it should be approved. And this applies in the Swedish law to both the type of schools that are dependent on alternative life views, the type of schools that have specific educational goals, and that also applies to international schools, which we had in a previous case in today's meeting. All these schools are subject to the same treatment under Swedish law. If they can demonstrate that they are at the same level as the public school, they are entitled to approval. One of the things that gives rise to confusion in our Norwegian debate is that the two main criteria, educational alternatives or life views, create considerable uncertainty. I'm going to exemplify it by two examples. Much of the public debate on the so-called ACE schools has focused on ACE education, and several criticisms have been made about the way the learning process is organised. However, these schools have not applied for recognition as a pedagogical alternative; they have actually applied for recognition under the second criterion of the law. On the other hand, very many of those who are critical of schools that are sometimes labeled ‘extreme’ or ‘fundamentalistic’ because of their religious profile are very positive to the Steiner Schools. The stone schools are recognized as a pedagogical alternative, but in reality the teaching of the Steiner Schools is deeply motivated by life, and this view of life permeates the teaching of all subjects and the organisation of the teaching of the Steiner Schools. This shows me that the criterion definition in our current private school law is inappropriate, because it really leads into quite confusing discussions about what is the basis. My challenge to the Council of State is therefore: Can he imagine that it will be possible to solve the problem of the unreasonable length of proceedings by going in the same direction as Sweden has done, simplifying legislation, simplifying the criteria and hopefully reaching an average time of proceedings that is about the same level as the Swedish does? In this case, all parties should be able to agree, regardless of the principle of disagreement on equality between private and public schools. At least the friction element that is involved in sometimes suspecting that the long trial period is a way of training these matters would be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1336	The average duration of proceedings in the Ministry in respect of applications for approval under the Private School Act is calculated in the context of the presentation of the budget proposal to the Stortinget. As regards applications for approval of new schools, the average treatment period was 13 months between July 1998 and June 1999. In the corresponding period of the following year, the average duration of proceedings was 12 months. Applications for amendments or extensions to existing offers have been dealt with more quickly. As I have previously blacked the Stortinget, and as the representative of Wage itself mentions, the Ministry has the objective that the treatment of applications for approval of a new school under the Private School Act will not take much longer than one year. I have, something my predecessors have probably also had, a desire to have the processing time down. The reasons why it takes time are several: First of all, it is apparent from Section 25 of the Private School Act. 2 that the Ministry shall obtain the opinion of the State Educational Office and the Host Municipality when an application is made for the approval of a primary school and of the host State when an application is made for the approval of a secondary school. In addition, the Ministry shall approve the syllabus which the schools wish to use, cf. Section 4 of the Private School Act. I would like to refer in particular to the first paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Training Act, where there is a requirement that private schools provide training which can be considered equivalent to that given in Norwegian public primary schools. In the case of private secondary schools, the Ministry must ensure that students will have study or professional competence. Before a school is approved under the private school law, it is also important to make sure that the rights of students under the private school law will be adequately respected. It means, in practice, that the Ministry also assesses the school's rules of entry and order, the amount of school money, whether the school undertakes to have the governing and counseling bodies required by the Private School Act, whether the school will endeavour to obtain teaching staff meeting the formal requirements of the law, etc. The Ministry must therefore address a number of pedagogical and legal issues that we are required by law before a decision is taken in the case. In addition, it may be necessary to obtain further information from the applicant if the application is defective or, as I mentioned, to obtain views from local authorities. All of this leads to time for the proceedings. One of the main points in the representative's interview with Wohnning is that he indicates that in Sweden there is a short procedure period. But after that department has been informed, the information that wages and salaries provide is completely incorrect. The school student, who deals with such applications, says that if a private school is applied for before 1 April of a year, the applicant can expect a response to the application so that one can start from the fall next year – i.e. one and a half years. It'll be the same as in Norway. If you apply before 1 April of a year, it will normally be a full opportunity to get started the following year. It seems that the interpellation is based on a misunderstanding as to what is happening in Sweden. In any case, I believe that applications for approval under the private school law must be dealt with in depth by the department, but of course with the aim that it should be effective and as short a period of time as possible. It concerns both applications for authorisation of new schools and applications for amendments or extensions. I would like to express my opinion that it is not realistic to bring down the average processing time to one to two months, as the interpellation might suggest. Then it would, for example, be completely impossible to allow the relevant municipality to express its opinion. It will also be very difficult to examine all the quality criteria that the law actually imposes on the ministry. The review shall be aimed at ensuring that schools provide a satisfactory offer to students attending these schools and that students’ rights are respected. Therefore, applications must take some time. Let me end by saying that the comparison between ACE schools and Steinerskolan, the representative of Wage, I don't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1357	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1360	The Council of State and I agree on one point, namely that what I have said in the interpellation text on Swedish relations is based on a misunderstanding. I also made explicit mention of that. I had received an information from Sweden that was misinterpreted. The crucial point, however, is that this is legally established in Sweden as an unconditional rule. Secondly, the actual situation in Sweden is that applicants who apply before 1 April usually receive an early-harvest response, so that they have the necessary time to prepare for the practical start-up of the coming school year. There is, therefore, a qualitatively significant difference between the Swedish legal status and the Norwegian state, and it consists in the fact that the applicants in Sweden have quite clumsy clear rights. It does not have applicants in Norway. I find it difficult to understand that it is not possible to keep up with a more ambitious objective in dealing with these matters than the wording used by the Council of State itself, which also his predecessors in the Council of State used, namely that it should not go ‘more than one year in particular’. Three of the applications currently pending have been waiting for more than two years and a significant number of the applications are approaching the two-year limit. This can be understood in cases where there are completely new applications professionally, which have never been assessed before. Then it can be understood that a detailed review is required from the department. However, for a significant number of the schools that have waited for up to a year and a half, these are curricula which have long since been approved and where there can be no need to carry out the type of evaluation carried out by the department. Therefore, I believe that in the case of the type of schools that follow the standard schemes that have already been approved, for example. Montessori schools and Steiner Schools should be expected, in the name of reasonableness, that the processing time could approach the Swedish. I didn't mean to make any equation between the ACE schools and the Steiner schools other than on one point, namely, to illustrate the point that the distinction between the life-vision criterion and the pedagogical option criterion is a little case-by-case distinction, to say it carefully. In terms of educational options, there will always be a life-view component at the bottom, and in schools working on the basis of life-view criteria, there will, of course, also be educational implications. My point, then, is that the legal text – our Norwegian legal text – is misleading at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1375	Let me first say that I'm glad that we've cleared up the incubation that was in the interpellation text, and I'm going to accept it without dragging that debate any further. We're saying it was an incursion! But I wonder if there's another incursion. For me, it seems that the representative of Wage says that as long as a school has applied before 1 April, you get the right to start the next harvest. I stand here with the text of the law from Sweden, and read the opposite; it's a restrictive rule. It says that if you are going to have a right at all to possible support from the next harvest, you must have applied before 1 April of the year before. As a result, we actually have a greater attendance in Norway, because in Norway there is no restriction on having to apply before 1 April this year to start the next harvest. On the contrary, if you apply now in the summer or in the autumn, you can continue to be able to join from the autumn of 2002 onwards in order to receive support as a private school. From April 1st to April 1st is one year of treatment; that's what we average. Now I don't have the list in front of me, but it's very rare that an application from the type of school that is already pedagogically approved is long in the department. But it's different quality of the applications you get. You can get an application that is missing; you write back to the school for further information, and then it takes a long time for you to get an answer. It happens in some cases. It may also take time for the municipality to give its opinion on the establishment of a private school. There are different factors that lie outside the Ministry's governance area, which take time to respond to some of those applications. Things can certainly be done in the ministry to further improve the effectiveness of the treatment of private school applications. It has, among other things, with the administrative budget of the Ministry each year, at least not known to the Right to add. We have a large number of applications for private schools, and we are trying to deal with them in accordance with the current legislation, but also on the basis of the objective of safeguarding students' rights. Although a student goes to a private school, the fundamental rights of a student to good teachers, to a good working environment and to a good education must be respected, and that is the purpose of having such an authorisation procedure also by private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1386	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State now expresses that there may be further efficiency in this field in the department, and therefore it is good that this matter is addressed. The government has stated that it is up to the private school law on each application and will administer the law as long as it applies. Private schools, based on life views or alternative pedagogy, are valuable alternatives to public schools, not a threat. This is where, in my opinion, the Workers' Party often shows an ideological flaw in its tolerance line, because the Government seems to believe that tolerance is promoting the views that you only agree with. The Christian People's Party will underline the parents' right to choose such alternatives for their children. I get a number of enquiries from private schools and organisations in dealing with private school matters, and I support Inge Wohnning in his impatience. Since we are now going to confine ourselves to the proceedings, I can mention that several schools have been subjected to very difficult and often insistent proceedings, and that is not just the Oasen school. I agree with the interpellant that now this school's application must have turned down enough times, so that a decision can be made immediately. Sunny high school is the school that has now waited the longest for answers – soon for two and a half years. They applied in February 1999 and received an additional question in October 2000 — a year and eight months later. So in April 2001, there are questions about new points from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. A plan has been used by the Ministry — both during the Labour Party Government and during the Centre Government — to approve schools since then. When the school uses a previously approved plan, which specifies that the L97 will apply, with some clearly stated deviations, these questions appear to be a training of the case in retrospect. Another school, Romesdal secondary school in Molde, with the same syllabus, has received the same questions for the previously approved plan. They are ownership of families with previously approved schools and do not belong to the new so-called extreme movements with which the Council of State has previously expressed great disagreement. They did not apply until November 2000, so the time aspect is not so problematic. It is a strong detailed management of the content of the plans of the two schools I have mentioned, which is a threat to the content and freedom of the school and its parents. I myself have asked the Council of State a number of written questions, including: on the treatment of Christian private secondary schools. All these schools have been approved and operated for a number of years, and there are only minor changes in the courses. For most offers, changes in the professions will not lead to an increase in the number of students, and thus do not have budgetary implications. I agree with the representative, Wage, that there is now a need to further improve the efficiency of time use, so that applications from private schools can be dealt with more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1403	What we are discussing today is primarily the length of proceedings and not the attitude of the Council of State to private schools. Nevertheless, one may sometimes be tempted to have such bad thoughts that one sees a connection between the attitudes of the Council of State and the bureaucracy towards this and the length of the process that we all too often see become too long. Just to clarify it: In the right's view, it's the public schools that are the most important actors. To increase the quality and flexibility of the public school system is Right's school case No. 1st@item: inlistbox But the private schools are, and should be, a very important supplement in several ways. First of all, they're economically more reasonable in that they get less financial coverage than the public school. Secondly, we are obliged by international conventions to let parents themselves choose which education they should have for their children. And third, the private schools are a very important challenge to the public school. Tolerance was discussed earlier today. Tolerance to those who want to choose another training is the main reason why Right fights so hard for parents who want alternative education for their children. And if the parent right is real, we have to have a clue that makes it, because it's not going to be high school money. So the whole key is that we still have good support for the private schools, and that they have the ability to get started pretty quickly. The Council of State has previously said that it has counterpoints to the contents of a number of schools. Yes, the contents of these schools should of course be in accordance with Norwegian law. There may be a content in some schools that both the Council of State and I might be able to think about differently, but none, either at large or in government, can overlook the parents' ability to choose the training that is best for their children. Here we are at the key to the whole thing. We have to try to get a trial period when it comes to these issues, which makes people not feel that they are being forced, and almost exhausted, to give up trying to find an alternative form that they think is best for their children. One can, of course, discuss what is practically possible, but I choose, a little positive, to interpret the Council of State so – and I hope that he will confirm it – that he has at least as a wish that the length of proceedings should be reduced for applications for private schools, without regard for their purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1416	It is an important issue that the representative pays attention to in this interview. I see it as totally unacceptable that application procedures for this law can take more than two years. It's almost so you're tempted to call the situation scandalous. What could be the reason for the length of the procedure? Logically, as I see it, it can only be three reasons, possibly combinations of these reasons. Possible reason no. 1 may be that we have too complicated rules of procedure, of bureaucratic and cumbersome rules. In that case, we have to clean up the legislation and simplify it. Possible reason no. 2 might be that our bureaucrats are incredibly slow. In that case, we have to do what we can call kicking end pieces. We need to speed up our case handlers. Possible reason no. 3, and perhaps the most alarming, is the fact that there are political motives behind insidiousness, that some have a negative political attitude towards private schools, and therefore ensure that application procedures take both winter and spring. I have not answered what is the reason, but I record that the representative's salary indicates that he believes the central is the legislation. I suppose the Council of State will address this issue. The Council of State also indicates that it is the bureaucratic rules that are the reason. It is to hope that he then takes an initiative to change the rules that create these problems. A legislation that provides for a two-year period of procedure must, of course, be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1425	I note with satisfaction that there seems to be a consensus in the Storting that today's situation is unsatisfactory, and that there are many good reasons why something should be done to change this situation. The Council of State tried with a creative argument that Sweden may be worse off than Norway. I can then reach out a hand, because if the Council of State wants to revise the Norwegian situation according to the Swedish, we agree that in future we will have rules of play that are clarifyingly clear, which means that no one risks having to wait for two years and five months, as one applicant has done in Norway per year. today. If we can agree on that, it will be a significant step forward. The second quality improvement in the Swedish system is that this is part of the general school law. It's not a special law, but it's under the general school law. And as far as I have been able to say, in Swedish politics, there is full agreement between the social democrats who are in government responsibility and the opposition that this is right. The reason why the Swedish procedure period, to which I pointed out, is on average half a year, while in Norway the average is 12 to 13 months – we agree on numerically – is clearly that the Swedish law is considerably simpler in terms of criteria. It is really just one basic requirement, namely that private school provision should remain qualitatively at the same level as public school. The reason why case handlers in the Ministry spend an immeasurable amount of time in Norway is that, on the one hand, a private school offer should be checked as being sufficiently alternative, i.e. It is sufficiently different for it to be approved, and at the next moment it must be caught with a view to ensuring that it is sufficiently similar to the public school, and it is not possible to suspect bureaucrats that they need quite a lot of time to implement that art of balance. I therefore believe until the opposite is proved, that the reason for the unreasonable length of the procedure on average in Norway and for the arbitrary nature of some applicants is that the criteria in the law invite an unreasonable amount of detail. So my question to the Council of State finally has to be: Could he imagine entering into a political settlement of the same kind as one has done in Sweden, where this is no longer a controversial theme at all, and where, as far as I can understand, is full satisfaction with the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1440	I think this interpellation debate has a little bit of a mark on the fact that the premises in the interpellation seem not to be right. If it had been as the interpellant initially thought, I can see that it had been a very good thing, or at least an acutely worded interpellation, where the Swedish Social-Democratic Government could be set up against the Norwegian Social-Democratic Government. It doesn't turn out to be right. The other thing that cannot be claimed is that it takes longer to deal with private school applications now than it did under the previous political regime. It is possible that it is also believed that former State Council Lilletun was a private school opponent of fanatical rank, but I believe that the time is about the same now as it was then, shows that there are no political leaders in any way compared to the time of proceedings. The underlying thing is, of course, that those in private schools must have certain rights and that those in need of State aid in order to operate that type of school must fulfil certain minimum criteria. Several here have said that maybe we should relax on those criteria, so that the schools could be approved faster. Yes, then I have to ask you what procedures you want to get rid of: Is it the municipality's right to comment on private schooling in its own municipality – which may have serious consequences for the school structure, perhaps the closure of inter-school schools, for example, about which we have experienced threats – that you no longer want? Should not the municipality have participation in the important decision it is that a private school be established in the municipality? Is the student’s right to satisfactory premises not to be cared for and examined? Is it the student's right to good teaching powers that the teaching staff have the training required to carry out the type of education that is not to be cared for and investigated? Or is it an examination that the vocational plans meet the objectives of a good education, to which it is to be reduced? You have to be specific and say what are the students' rights, which you no longer think they should have if they go to a private school, or if you want the municipality not to speak. I think this to the seventh and last is about a completely different school policy view. The right has become the main speaker for a privatisation of Norwegian school, that it should be free for everyone, regardless of educational or religious alternative, to start private schools, preferably on a commercial basis. It's a completely different school policy view from what the majority here, fortunately want, is to call the public common school, where students from different social classes with different ethnic and religious backgrounds meet and get to know each other. I would wish from time to time that the Right had shown the same concern and commitment to the public school, which needs more resources, better premises and better paid teachers, as they show to the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1454	So the debate is on case No. Four over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1468	This has become a repetition of a matter. Int. S. No 144 for 1995-96 adopted a majority in the Grand Duchy: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up legislation to ensure the physical working environment for pupils in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers.’ In Ot.prp. No 46 for 1997-98, About the Law on Primary and Continuing Education, the Training Act, was dealt with in a relatively thorough manner. The Ministry stressed that it had not been possible to carry out the necessary investigative work properly. It was also clarified that the proposal, which they were working on at the time, had to be consulted normally, and it would not have been possible to do so. In addition, they wrote that the relationship with the Labour Inspectorate had to be clarified, and that was not the time. A working group was set up to clarify the legal basis and the necessary boundaries in the existing legislation in order to achieve thorough and good treatment. So it's finally called in the proposition: ‘The Ministry will propose legal provisions on the working environment for elephants as soon as the necessary distribution is completed.’ What we can determine from what is in the proposition is that this investigation must have started once in 1997. So they've been doing this for at least four years. Now in the spring, the investigation work is obviously complete, and a proposal has been sent to the hearing. The proposal is a draft new paragraph of the Training Act. So it's not about a new law, but it's about adding a paragraph to the Education Act. I would like to quote the proposal that is now being consulted in response – I stress that it is in response – to the many decisions that the Stortinget has taken. What is being consulted is the following: ‘All primary and secondary schools shall be of health satisfaction. Schools shall be planned, built, organised and operated in such a way as to take care of the health, hygiene and safety of students in a generally accepted way. The cooperation selection at primary schools, the school selection at secondary schools, and the Board of Students and the Parental Council, have the right to express themselves and to make presentations in all matters relating to the working environment of the school.» In the two major periods we have discussed this matter, it has been a major commitment to progress in the matter. Until the end of February 2000, the Labour Party also showed considerable activity over different Questionnaires — in regular and oral Questionnaires. In the oral question procedure of 12 January 2000, Tomas Norvoll had a question to the then Church Minister Jon Lilletun, and he concluded the question in an excellent way, which I would like to quote: ‘Why does it take so long? Does the Council of State think it is right that many students have employment relationships no one else would accept?’ The council then, as usual, was pleased with the question, and regretted that the matter had taken a long time. He promised a quick response, and would come back to Stortinget with an assessment and, if necessary, proposals for changes. Now the government did not have the opportunity to come back to the Stortinget with proposals, for perhaps one reason in particular, namely that the government left before it was possible to promote any legislative proposal. And that might have been lucky. On 18 May last year – after no proposal had been made and after only three years of great activity – we had a debate in Stortinget on the basis of the State Council's educational policy statement, and a majority in Stortinget then adopted a proposal from SV, where we asked the Government to submit a legislative proposal by the autumn of 2000, i.e. by Christmas last year. It was a short time, and SV understands that it could be problematic for the Government. We accepted that it would go beyond the winter before we got a proposal, but now we have waited a long time. I understand and accept that this is a matter which it takes time to investigate, but there are limits to how long you should investigate. At some point, some people have to cut through and say that we've done enough, now we're making a proposal – a proposal that may not be optimal, but that's the best we can do so far. Then it's up to the Storting to adopt what's going to be the final text of the law. I'm sure that's when the time has come. Sometimes you can get a feeling that there are no legal or other practical or legal problems that are the challenge. It is the situation in many schools that is so bad that it is not possible to make a law that will not have to have major consequences for many schools. Of course, if there's fear of the consequences, it'll depend on the environmental standard that a law, if any, will kneel. In any case, we can't be aware that we have school facilities that are so poor in standard that they won't tolerate the confrontation with what we expect to be the minimum standards for working life. I take it as being that the majority here in the Chamber will not give standards that will make schools lighthouses around in environmental work in Norway. The serious thing is that children and young people are exposed to poor working conditions. On 1 January 1996, a regulation on environmental health protection for schools and kindergartens entered into force. On the basis of this regulation, the Children’s Ombudsman has carried out an assessment of how municipalities are dealing with environmental issues in pre-schools and kindergartens. According to the Children's Ombudsman's report, two thirds of municipalities say they have registered health problems caused by the indoor environment. Two thirds is a pretty high number. In addition, the Children’s Ombudsman has estimated that the costs will be approximately. NOK 14 billion by implementing the necessary measures to comply with the regulations. It is worth noting that the Oslo exhibition window represents nearly 10 billion of these costs, according to the estimates of the Children's Ombudsman. Work environment regulations shall be a tool for students and students to work with their own working environment. It should be an exercise in democratic work, where they themselves go in and show what needs to be done. They are also faced with costs and must participate in and balance with other staff. So this work environment regulation is not just a break, but it is also an important tool to teach children and young people how our system and our democracy work. An important part of a work environment law must also apply to participation of students and students. It is important for one to be able to bring these provisions together within a single legislative framework. I'd think that would be the ideal. Finally: In St.meld. No 27, which is now being treated, we give students greater rights to their learning environment. It would be excellent if we had work environment regulations that they could use in their work to create a better learning environment around our higher education institutions. We're still waiting for the bill, and we're waiting with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1510	Initially, I would like to say that the working situation of students and students is different in several important areas. For these two groups, there are differences in the scope of the applicable legislation, liability and actual situation. In my opinion, it is therefore appropriate to distinguish between students and students on the issue of regulation of the working environment. Another point is that in the long-term debate with the representative of Reikvam, which has been taking place in Stortinget, the original decision of the Stortinget was to ask the Government to draw up legislation to protect the physical working environment of the students, in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers. As you can see, all the moments that the representative Rikham is now drawing into his interview about other things that go beyond the physical, more than what was in the original decision from Stortinget at the time the work was started. In St.meld. No 27 said the government will come back to the question of how to regulate the student's working environment, working on the subsequent legislative proposal. In my reply, I would therefore like to limit myself to matters relating to the consultation proposal on provisions on the working environment of pupils in the Education Act and the Private School Act, which is referred to in the interview. The problems related to the working environment situation of pupils were described in detail in an evaluation carried out by Aplan Viak AS from August 1999 to the end of January 2000. The evaluation was a mission of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The evaluation has been sent to all 435 municipalities in the country and 19 municipalities, and it is mentioned in the press. That is why I have not seen it as necessary to repeat this description in the consultation proposal as well. The main problems relate to indoor climate and air quality. This is mainly due to the fact that these conditions are very costly to repair, and also that it often takes a long time to repair buildings with poor indoor climate and air quality. In the case of sanctioning options, the education offices of the State may impose on the school owner remedies. As pointed out in the letter of hearing, the imposition competence cannot be accompanied by any sanctioning option to municipalities and county councils which do not comply with any regulations. However, I assume that municipalities and county councils will comply with legally binding requirements from their education offices. We will assess this in the further work. The psychosocial work environment is protected in several existing regulations. First, I would like to mention Section 12 of the regulation of 1 December 1995 No. 928 on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools etc. ‘Activities shall promote well-being and good psychosocial conditions’. In order for both teachers and students to be able to thrive and do their best, it is essential that both the physical and psychosocial working environment be at a satisfactory level. It depends on several factors, both in the form of regulations and regulations, but also on the attitudes of the individual teacher and student, which may be most important at the end of the seventh and last. This is made clear in the last paragraph of Section 1-2 of the Training Act, where it states: ‘The emphasis shall be on creating good forms of cooperation between teachers and elephants, between apprentices, apprentices and businesses, between school and home, and between school and working life. All those related to the school or to the apprenticeships shall work to prevent the harm to the pupils, apprentices and apprentices or victims of infringing words or actions.’» I am uncertain as to what the representative Reikvam means by «participating» for the students, but after the proposal for legal provisions, the cooperation committee at primary schools and the school committee at secondary schools, and the pupil council and parental council, have the right to express themselves and make proposals on all matters relating to the working environment at school. It should be able to provide a basis for user involvement for the students and their superiors. The Ministry’s proposal for legal provisions is a response to the Stortingen’s decision, and the legal provisions will help to improve the working environment of students through the requirements of the school owners and user involvement of the students. This is, of course, a draft consultation opinion. We have to wait for the hearing opinions to see if they provide a basis for making changes to the legislative proposal. A lot of people have to say their opinion, and there's a lot of work to do. A final legislative proposal will then be forwarded to the Odelstinget for ordinary consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31.ana.ud2266e1541	The time fixed by the Rules of Procedure for the morning meeting shall be immediately available. The stork is now interrupting the negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at tonight's meeting is the interpellant.
