ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e24	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kari Brodevoll, has now taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e30	In the first two and a half years of this downturn, the Labour Party's IT political commitment was to accuse the current government of training the apparently only interesting IT project in the country, IT Fornebu, and to direct the project in the Workers' Party's direction. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party today, after the valuable plots at Fornebu have got the «real» owner according to the Workers' Party and the opinion of the Advance Party, realizes that IT policy must be much more. This is good for Norway and promises good for the future. Then each of us gets to make our own thoughts on what was at stake in the Fornebu case, when the Minister of Industry in his presentation has the following to report on the progress of Fornebu since last spring: ‘We will soon be able to see an initial concreteisation of the visions which the Stortinge took into account...’ Had it been government councillor Knudsen's predecessor, Lars Sponheim, who made such a vague speech, certain radar pair representatives would probably have a busy day at Stortinget's pulpit. The State Council's statement on IT policy shows that the Government of Stoltenberg is still based on the course of the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and the previous government. This applies, inter alia, to: the commitment to electronic commerce and management, the work on IT security and the principles and progress of broadband development. I notice that the Council of State stated in its statement that the previous government had a poorly coordinated IT policy, and lacked a common overall strategy. This is a speech for better knowledge. It was just the previous government that for the first time combined responsibility for IT policy, which was very well received, among other things. by professional organisations of the IT industry. I want to give special commendation to the Council of State for two things. I think it is positive that the government is following up the Vulnerability Committee's attitude, and is working on the new security and preparedness challenges that information technology is giving to society. This is an area in which we were seriously aware in connection with the 2000 problem, and which is of the utmost importance that we take seriously. The second thing I want to highlight is a steady and satisfactory progress in removing the barriers to e-commerce and electronic communications in today's legislation. The NHO has recently demonstrated that the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ has dramatically ceased after the Workers’ Party took over power. In this particular area, however, Lars Sponheim's commitment is still being followed up. It is absolutely necessary for e-commerce to have the desired prevalence, which will significantly improve the efficiency of public administration. However, in key areas, the IT statement contained more pompous words than a tangible content, at least if the priorities of the Government are at the same time aligned with those of other budgets and policies. The main challenge of society is access to skilled and competent labour. This is not least the case in the field of information technology. This requires two things: a strong boost in the commitment to higher education and research and an offensive policy for labour immigration where the interests of the LO and the foreign fear of the Progress Party do not premise. In both of these areas, things are going too small. In higher education and research, the association of IT industries has recently announced the need for a tripling of research efforts in ICT over the next three years, as well as a strong resource promise for ICT training at our universities. The government's response to this has been to cut the university budgets and to refuse to introduce the most effective way to increase the research effort of industry: tax incentives for research investment. Here the Left stands for a completely different policy than the Government. If we are to succeed in becoming an even more growth-intensive export nation within the IT industry, it is important that we focus heavily on areas where we have natural prerequisites to be the best. Such an area is marine information technology. In the field of electronic navigational charts, there are great opportunities to be ahead of them and it can provide good export revenue. Finally, IT offers enormous opportunities to modernise public administration without centralising. It is important that the Government takes this inward into practice. The left is in favour of modernising the public sector. For the left, it means yes to rationalization, but no to centralization. Such content should all be included in the concept of modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e61	IT development is an international race, and more than ever, it is important to maintain a high rate of pace in the formulation of an information and knowledge society policy. That's why eNorge is a national virtue that we have to stand together for! In recent times, we have witnessed that the prices of IT shares have fallen dramatically, and still – fortunately – it is true that no three are growing into heaven. Those who had hoped that the IT revolution would soon be sidelined as a short-term fashion phenomenon, I think, will be disappointed. What we see is that companies that might have been established on an unrealistic basis are now being tested by the usual economic laws. The basic trends are equally widespread around the world. Fresh figures show us that digital Norway is still developing at high speed. In recent days, we have seen a notice that, according to an OECD analysis, Norway is at a low level in terms of expected economic growth over the next five years. It is suggested that the inability of industry to use IT is a contributing cause. The analysis is an example of our having major challenges ahead of us, and the challenges are to keep and strengthen Norway's place at a time when all the countries we compare with would like to be in close contact. We have carried out a large project, ‘A value-creating Norway’, where Torgeir Reve had the management. There it was clear that we are competing more in volume than many other countries, and that we have problems in increasing the competence and technological content of our land-based industry. The project concludes that we therefore need to further develop the clusters where we are competent, because that is where we can find and develop the new technology, and therefore there is nothing specific about what the OECD comes up with, but it is too pessimistic about the course of this big business, too, by concentrating on the clusters where Norway really has something to pick up. Norwegian business has special challenges. We know that oil revenues will flatten out, and that we will therefore need new jobs, new industries, and not least need to exploit the full potential of the new technology for increased value creation and thus also for enhanced well-being. It will also be important to have effective electronic infrastructure, increased confidence in tools and enhanced skills to make use of the new technology, not only in the new industries, but equally fully in our traditional industries and throughout public administration. This shows how important it is to bet on developing our competences in all areas of society. Research competence in IT, competence to use IT in work, competence to use it as a citizen of society, competence to use IT in education are important objectives in the future. In terms of security and vulnerability issues, too, competence is a major concern. We need to understand the technology and find out how it can be used most appropriately. VeRDI – the national SND-based e-commerce programme – is an important part of enhancing the competence for the practical and strategic use of e-commerce in small and medium-sized enterprises. Competence building and information dissemination are important not only in electronic commerce but also in the use of the new technology throughout the whole value chain. We must ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to participate in the information, competence and knowledge society. On the one hand, the high prevalence of technological aids in homes, schools and public spaces contributes to increasing the possibility of including all. On the other hand, it is now becoming more serious for people who are not online. Without specific measures, many could become part of a minority that is at risk of being marginalised. Then we can't be calm about a development that can create class divisions. Therefore, solid skills must be built on the use of the new technology in our entire population. This is why adult competence reform is so important. It gives people who are already at work the opportunity to evolve further and not give up. At the same time, it also provides new opportunities for young people who have walked the practical path. The programming language SIMULA, developed in the 1960s, has been called the largest Norwegian IT invention ever. Now this name remains in the new Center for Basic Research in Information Technology, Simula Research Laboratories, which is about to establish itself at Fornebu. With good international relations, the Centre will make an important contribution to achieving the vision behind the establishment of the leading international IT environment at Fornebu. But SIMULA is also a talking example of opportunities that were not exploited. We have to pull the load together to achieve the targets in the broadband plan. Here it is not useful to shift responsibility on each other. We all need to participate, authorities, organisations and businesses, both nationally and regionally, because broadband is about efficient infrastructure, about the capacity to carry large amounts of information, whether in the form of images, text or sound. Already in a few years today's low capacity and thus low speed on the web will be incomprehensible to most people. Access to broadband will become as natural and necessary as access to electricity and telephone. Business needs broadband. The districts and regions need broadband. Schools, public libraries, hospitals and local administrations need broadband. The expansion of broadband, which will provide us with high-speed communications, is also a very expensive infrastructure. The Government has set out in its main strategy – it has also wanted a large majority in this House – that market players should deal with this as much as possible, with public demand as a strong and decisive driving force. Overall efforts this year and up to the next year will be crucial for the achievement of the first objective of the broadband action plan. We have now also invited KS to participate as an active actor in the IT forum that is in progress and that I established in due course. We need to bring forward the municipalities that are on the offensive – and it is not that it is the richest municipalities that have now taken the challenge. There are very big differences, but the important thing is that they go with the private and pull the load together. Content content and content providers will also play an important role in the development of the information and knowledge society and, as broadband is developed, an increased focus on content and use is needed. We need to stimulate the Norwegian content industry, including: to further develop our own language and our own cultural heritage. Therefore, the Government will assess an overall strategy, including: by connecting industry to areas of activity such as spatial data, learning, language technology and culture. Last week, the Norwegian Stortinget adopted Norwegian participation in the EU eContent programme. The aim of the programme is to ensure the linguistic and cultural diversity of Europe, and also to help small and medium-sized enterprises. In June, I present version 3.0 of the eNorway Plan, Government Action Plan for the Information and Knowledge Society. eNorway has contributed to a higher pace of speeding up Norway’s transition to the information society. It has also been noticed far beyond our own borders. eNorway is a user-oriented and operational plan. In version 3.0, we will also point to broadband deployment, the development of electronic content, the internationalisation of the IT industry, and how we can better exploit the new technology to gain productivity. The international strategy is also interesting. We are now building it up thematically, not least in relation to individual countries in the East. The aim of the eNorway plan is to contribute to the creation of information communities for all. It's a value measure. We want everyone to be with us. This is also one of the key conditions for economic growth and well-being, for countries with broad social participation and low levels of social inequalities will also be the strongest in the long term in the development of the society we see coming. Finally, I see, among others. SV has put forward a proposal to have a global presentation on the broadband side. That's what we're doing. I expect that it will be presented as a separate matter for the next spring, at the latest in the revised version. The Ministry of Transport is also in the process of monitoring the entire infrastructure side in the case of broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e108	First, I want to agree entirely with the Council of State that it was good that this sector had to try out the laws that exist in the market, and that we saw that the pricing was in proportion to that. It was healthy for this industry, although it's not sure that it was as healthy for all those who thought this was easy money to make. But that was good for the industry, that was it. There's two things I want to deal with. The only thing that the government finally commented on is a message. Status is important for action, and I am busy that we need to acquire knowledge to get the measures. Because there are two things per person. date is difficult. The only thing is that the permissions on the budget are obviously too small for all the municipalities that want to follow their example of Ryfylke municipalities. It is quite clear that they have succeeded. But there have been a lot of people who have contacted me – and I believe others on the Business Committee – who say that they are told that there are not enough resources for the skill that a person wants to do so that he is good enough to ask. It's a problem, and we have to do something about it. The second is that there are some places where it is probably not the basis for that skill either – where it is too thin with people. I'd like to know that we would get a message before the state council now said that at least there has to be a proper review in the state budget that provides the basis for going on. I'm more busy than in shape. So finally, what concrete active action will the Council of State — let me get two of them — initiate to respond to both the challenge of Reve and his investigation and the challenge of the OECD? Because it's not enough that we know that more people have said it; we have to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e119	As regards broadband development, it is clear that it will be crucial. It is probably also true that some municipalities have taken the challenge on a tight arm and have joined forces with private people and have been active, while others are more weaning and do not know exactly how to continue their work. That is why we have now invited the Municipal Councils – they are also involved as eNorway partners – to a very concrete cooperation where we can get modeling. We also see now that a company in Finnmark – Finnmark Broadband – has gone out publicly and said that they can actually make broadband connections for 45 pst. by the population of Finnmark. Then it's important that we enable ourselves to follow them up. It is also our responsibility to ensure that the HIGH COM system, the incentive system that we have, can continue, so that, when you get started, you also know that it triggers some incentives from the public. So to a value-creating Norway. We've done a good job there. We've now taken a round across all the regions of our country to get an idea of what the stand is like there. At the same time, we see that the clusters do not need to be linked to one particular industry, but that when they join together, they also acquire new inspiration and skills. So that's what's going to happen, and we've also put forward from our side for the follow-up to the Hervik Committee. We have added up to a rule-driven arrangement. Others may think otherwise, but in order to cope with the transition that is absolutely necessary, much goes on the competence side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e126	ICT industries are at least one of the future industries for which we somehow have to organise, whether the oil age is towards its end or not. I could imagine asking the Council of State about the most important steps we politicians have to take to increase the likelihood that we will be able to establish the next big ICT company in the Nordic region: what are we going to have to do differently from what we've done to achieve it? The second thing I would like to hear about is the joint project that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have on Fornebu, which has been mentioned to some extent in the IT policy statement. Now we got a broad review of Hedstrom, who talked about how wonderful everything is out there right now – and that's of course happy if that's how Hedstrom has explained it. I would like to ask the Council of State, which I suppose follows this very carefully – she was one of the crumbs working to unload this in her time: Is it so that the progress of what is going on out there is consistent with what was happening? And do the council share in that case Hedstrom's joy over how wonderful this has become?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e135	If I could have made a recipe on how to set up a next, huge ICT company in Norway à la Nokia and Ericsson, I would probably have shot the gold bird. However, I am going to stick to what the research results show very clearly, namely that where we have the opportunities, we are already very competent – whether we are talking about new technologies linked to the entire marine side, to the biotechnology side or to what we can do on the ICT side both in the satellite industry and a good deal in the maritime sector. The size has just agreed that these are the areas we have to go on. And then we're always going to get into the difficult problem that we want the extra money for it. And if we have to go in and make a choice, we get problems when we have to take something out of what we've been brooding -- maybe a little bit too thin -- beyond, which prevents us from making the really heavy effort in these areas. I hope we can do this, for example. on the marine side. We've been saying for a long time that we're going to bet on it. And when we go back year after year, when it comes to the problem, we don't have the time to do the priorities exactly in the area that has such great opportunities in it. In the case of IT Fornebu, some areas have been late. After all, the centre for excellent research is now in place and will be on its way to the autumn, but in addition to this, the large engine and the driving force on the telecommunications side in Norway, namely Telenor, will actually physically move out there. Then we also have to make sure that we think that communication arrangements are ready when they move.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e144	I would also like to mention the OECD report, which has attracted considerable attention in the media — and also in this room — where Norway has predicted the lowest economic growth of the Member States. Now, it is always the case that statistics are to be taken with a pinch of salt and see what they include and contain, but in any case they give a signal that Norway has to be an activator here, so that this does not become a reality. The Council of State also referred to a ‘value-creating Norway’. As I remember Professor Reve's project, some clusters were presented where we could be internationally competitive. Oil and gas, shipping — yes, at all maritime sectors. But what was also pointed out was that Norway had the opportunity to become part of a Nordic cluster within ICT, and that it was important that we knew our visit time so that we could have a strong influence on this Nordic cluster. It is a fact that we have not managed, in line with some other Western countries, to use information technology in such a way that continental-based activities have strengthened their competitiveness. This was the main reason why the United States had strong industrial growth throughout the 1990s. There were no shared opinions about that. My question to the Council of State is: What is the reason why we, who are at the top of the world in terms of being advanced users of mobile telephony and ICT, have not been able to exploit this to increase the competitiveness of our companies in mainland Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e157	With regard to the OECD report, I would say, in addition to what I said to the former replicant, that a 24-hour administration where you can go online and get information, of course, will help increase activity, and in addition, more ICT will be used in your daily work. It is right that Professor Reve, on behalf of, among others. by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, paid attention to these important clusters. It's not right that we're not world leaders, because in some of these areas we're actually. If we look at space technology, which also comes under the telecommunications and communications side, the satellite industry, Norway only has the United States and France ahead, so we're actually very good at some of those areas. But if we're going to go ahead and further process this, we need even more expertise and technology. So the question from the representative is, why don't we do it in mainland Norway? We're in the unique situation that we have oil and gas, and we compete a lot in volume. We are not in the crisis situation of many others, who have had to do a colossal 'round-run', but we have to prepare and get ready to go into a whole new situation, because we know that the new jobs will come in areas other than the traditional industry. That's one of the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e163	I want to go into the expansion phase in the case of broadband, which the representative Lilletun was also involved. The Council of State said in its statement that it will be serious for those who remain outside the new technology. They will be ‘marginalised’, and it was expressed that we can get a new class distinction. I understand it as if it were businesses, individuals and groups of individuals. It's clear it's serious, and then we have to avoid doing that. The statement maintains the deadlines that had been set before. All schools, town halls, libraries and hospitals should be able to connect to broadband by the end of 2002. All Norwegian households will have the same opportunity during 2004, and I assume that Norwegian small businesses belong to the last category – during 2004. According to the media, Telenor has said that half of Norwegian citizens will be able to get real broadband for the next four to five years – that is, it is the largest market player who says it. Half of the town halls have access today, and there's only 9 pst. of the municipalities that have spent money this year to do something about this. The IT companies invest in Oslo and little outside, because the infrastructure is not in place elsewhere. So the Council of State in its statement now says that until the spring of next year, the Storting will be up-to-date on whether this is going well, according to the strategy that has been chosen, that the market should be settled. I believe we need a real update in the state budget, as the representative Lilletun said. If the Stortinget does not have to start a new process, let IT Fornebu, with date and time, to get something done. The question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee the progress I have read, which is mentioned in the statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e172	I want to repeat that for our equality society, it is serious if we are going to get into a situation like that revealed by studies from the United States, a special investigation called "Falling Through the Net", which shows that those who do not get part of this are being cut off from many possibilities later in life. This one has been specially designed for children. When it comes to Morten Lund's questions about broadband development, it is clear that everyone should have an offer. But when Morten Lund is simultaneously talking about ‘real broadband’ — broadband is also defined as that of the actors themselves, those who, if necessary, have to send light and image, as their need – there must be a need and a content. I would like to say that it is natural to return to the state budget for 2002, so that the Storting is informed about progress. At the same time, it is important to keep up the pressure on market players, which has been facilitated by both the previous government and this government. And as I said both in my post now and in previous posts: This is a skill that we have to take together. At least I'm not going to be the one who stands here and comes with some guarantees, because we know that it may be those who have problems getting it implemented, and then we also have to make a plan to solve it. But I assume that the Storting is interested in us taking a common promise here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e181	This has been a debate with a lot of tongues. It might have to be like this with such a difficult theme and with such widths in the themes, and broadband is in many ways what goes on. I think we're going to have a somewhat sober relationship with this with broadband. It's clear that it's important, primarily in relation to schools, in relation to municipalities and in relation to businesses and businesses, but I don't think most households in this very near future will depend on a good broadband offer. It's to be expanded, it's to be facilitated, for all intents and purposes, but we must not present it in such a way that it becomes our new religion in many ways. Then we'll get out the wrong way. I have a question for the Council of State. But before I ask that question, I'll comment on this with the OECD and the economy. As I see the report on economic growth in Norway, it was linked to the land-based part of Norway, and we must be clear that overall growth, when we also include the oil economy, is probably not so bad with other countries. So I don't think we should worry so much, and at least don't say it's this industry that's going to save us. So to the question to the Council of State. This is what goes on educational material and the layout of the department sketches, where you have to go into the production side instead of going into the demand side. If the Council of State agrees that the State should enter into and participate in the development of educational material to the extent that it is clearly stated by a government, or should enter the demand side and then leave it up to manufacturers to develop offers that can be added to those to buy it, i.e. schools and students, so they can go in and get it out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e190	I agree with the representative of Reikvam that broadband is of course not alpha and omega, but we have actually seen that those who have now managed to get started have also got businesses linked to the communities. So ask Reikvam if you should not consider going into the demand side for teaching materials, rather than on the production side. I think it's an exciting proposal and question from SV, and I have to say that as Minister of Industry, I have a great sense for that way of doing it in terms of teaching material, and will take it further to the Council of State Trond Giske in the hope that, when SV takes such an initiative, he will try it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e197	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e200	Like the representative Lilletun, we in the Coastal Party are also very concerned that broadband should reach out to the whole people – and to absolutely the whole people, not just to 90 pst. And I think that the Council of States has been very capable of bypassing the question in the substitutions we have now had, so those of us who actually believe and are concerned that everyone should have broadband, are still waiting for the answer whether the state will take the last part of broadband development, that is. non-commercially profitable. Because there are areas in the country where people still live, and where one also wants to maintain the settlement, but where it is not commercially profitable to expand broadband. Now state council gave Horn very positive signals when she was here in connection with media policy presentation. She guaranteed that all of Norway would have access to the new technology. And I have to say that I was wondering if Councillor Horn had back coverage in the Ministry of Finance for the grand promise she made. I am now wondering whether the Council of State Knudsen can possibly give a guarantee in a final post that there is coverage in the Ministry of Finance to promise the Norwegian people that everyone will have access to new technology. In this case, it would mean a lot to a lot of people who are out in the districts wondering if they are going to be a deterrent to development. So it's now so that that's not all that can be sent on broadband, even though a lot can go there. To develop viable IT companies across the country, one must also think about the other infrastructure that is missing in large parts of the country. And there are limits to how much market players can contribute financially in all forms of infrastructure, both the broadband infrastructure and the infrastructure that depends on wheels. There are a number of companies in our country that have a high potential for development in their skills, but are hampered in their development that the physical infrastructure that leads to businesses is too poor. These are too rigid central signals about how, for example, land areas in different parts of the country can be used, so that IT enterprises with competence, development opportunities and the desire to connect to more competent employees and expand their business are often stopped by central signals of where they are allowed to build and where they are not allowed to build. Thus, if IT development is to become an innovative value-creating Norway — everywhere in Norway — the country needs to free itself of its central guidelines in terms of land use in Norway. The State must also contribute to infrastructure both in the form of broadband in the non-commercially profitable areas and in the form of infrastructure linking e.g. the internal western countries, together with the external western countries. We can't have it so that only those along the Coastal Route will have a development, while Fjord-Norway is withering, or, as it says in the Regional Notice, becomes a retreat area for fjord farmers and people who speak nynorrhea and dialect. It's a little bit too tight. If we are to have a total development of Norway, an effort is required on which I challenge the Council of State. Is the financial will of the Workers' Party to invest in the necessary infrastructure, both on broadband, on the road, on the port, and is it willing to spread the technology, spread the investment beyond the Oslo area? It is also a little daunting, when you look at the regional announcement, that the government is suggesting that all IT developments are going to be around Oslo, and they have done their best to contribute to it by joining forces with the Advance Party on IT Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e211	It is no wonder that the debate on information technology and broadband will be covered with great interest, precisely because it will have so much to say to business in the coming years. When we talk about broadband to everyone, I'd like to say that what's in it is that there must be broadband for everyone who needs it. It's not like everyone needs it. It's the one. When one on the other hand is talking about broadband, it's kind of like rolling out fiber for every household in this country. Nor is it the case, because there are more technologies to get broadband on than through fiber. It's quite obvious that we're now using all of the technological possibilities that we have. Also in this area, as in many other areas, there is a tendency to cry out that the state has to make sure that there is broadband for everyone who needs it. Now it turns out that where there is a local commitment and a local initiative, they do this in small communities in a way from the outset and perhaps in advance. So I would like to point out that in this area, the local initiative is perhaps more important than anything else, for the communities, districts or municipalities, or communities, for the sake of the cause, which takes the initiative to do so, builds up and gets what will really be the challenge in the future – it's not the'motorways' as it's often said, but it's the distribution network or the access network – will be in a fantastic negotiating position against those who are involved in the construction of'motorways', and there will be several of them around the whole country. So I'm a little bit hard to understand that a lot of time is going to point out that it's the state that has to go in the head here. The state should be involved, and the Government has pointed to it more than once. So it's this OECD report that tells us that we're going to have little economic growth because we haven't taken advantage of the new technology. The precision of non-oil is absolutely necessary when discussing these questions. But there's no doubt that there's an expression that we have a tendency to have trouble using new technology, and that we're a little bit sideways in that context. When you've been in some discussions in this room about how to develop this in this country, I don't have a problem understanding that we have problems getting started. When we get to the top right now that maybe the richest municipality in the country won't give immigration permits to Telenor and IT Fornebu before the state has secured that there will be collective solutions out there, one has to start wondering when we're going to get started. If there is anything in what is being said here, I will encourage the Government to adopt state regulation plan immediately, so that we can give these companies the right to move in and get started. It's a disaster if you're going to invest hundreds of millions in buildings and then you can't put them into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e222	The other speakers who have asked for the floor on this matter have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e225	First I have to apologize for having such a bad voice because of a cold. The IT revolution has already changed and will continue to change society and thus our lives dramatically. It is important to provide an equivalent framework for all citizens, institutions and businesses across the country. People have to have the opportunity to work where they live, says the Council of State Knudsen in her presentation. The Central Party fully agrees with this. But it commits more than words. I come from the district of Hadeland, which consists of three municipalities. Just 48 pst. by employees living and working in the same municipality. It's deciduously the lowest proportion in the whole state. The commuting to Oslo is very big, with the burdens it is for the commuters themselves and their families. In this brief article, I would like to ask the Government for practical measures and proposals for the decentralisation of jobs in general and the relocation of state jobs from Oslo in particular. I'm calling for the relationship between what the government says and what it's doing. The district notification almost does not mention the relocation of State jobs. It's really alarming. In the IT statement, there are only general terms of decentralisation. Nor in the police report that is now under consideration, will the government be particularly district offensive regarding the police data service in Oslo and the material service in Gran. In fact, a pooling of the institutions with joint management, i.e. a co-organisation, is proposed. What many in Hadeland fear is that in the long run this can lead to centralisation by suggesting that the scheme is impractical, with the result that everything has to be moved to Oslo – contrary to what district politicians want. Such developments could not accept either the political environment in Hadeland or Uppland. There is a great deal of commitment to the matter, not least from workers' party politicians, and we fully support that in the Central Party. I also remind you that Uppland lost valuable state jobs when the centres of expertise for special education were closed, among other things. in Hov i Land, and was centralized to Bredtvedt. It was at the Workers' Party's help. Now, the sorenskrembet on Hadeland is on the decline. We hope it won't be as the Government wants, but we're afraid of it. We want the police's data service to be moved to Gran and co-located with the police's material service. There is no shortage of premises or professionals in Hadeland. The last is the case for the Oslo Data Service, where 15 courses are available. Now Stortinget has the opportunity to say what they think by supporting the proposal submitted by me. As far as I am concerned, no one has reported anything about how they will view the proposal, and I am aware that it can be pointed out that the matter is with the Justice Committee. This should not prevent Stortinget from saying its own today in connection with the IT debate, if one wishes to see the matter in full. I bring this up with proposal No. 4 on behalf of the Centre Party and also makes note of a grammatical error, the word ‘and’ being replaced by the infinitive mark ‘z’. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as part of the relocation of state jobs and co-locates the police’s data service and the police’s material service to the municipality of Gran.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e245	Marit Tingelstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e248	I have actually taken the floor to comment on some of the proposals that have been made during the debate, but first a few words that the IT company, as I understood the representative Morten Lund, has had to move to Oslo due to poor infrastructure. Now I am employed by an IT company – perhaps one of the most district-based companies in Norway – that has five offices around the country. The reason why we have to be often in Oslo, is not the infrastructure, but that most things happen here, and you have to have a market contact, you actually have to be a bit of a lot in Oslo. That's where it happens, whether we like it or not, but we're going to fight to be in the district still, as we are per. today. That's what we think we're going to do, and when we're going to get broadband, of course, it's going to be even easier, but it's not a "must" for us to have it so far. If I understood correctly the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug, he was dissatisfied with the budget. I guess the 2001 budget is a collaboration between the Labour Party and the Centre, and the Left is probably still behind the center, if I understand what happened this weekend, right. Then turn to the suggestions. After all, the two proposals by Mr Requam, on behalf of the Socialist Left, have already been received by the Minister, and I would recommend that he turn them into proposals for transmission. The proposal for the representative of Mr Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, we also have great sympathy for, and will also recommend that he turn it into a transmission proposal. With regard to the proposal of the representative of Marit Tingelstad on behalf of the Central Party, there is a proposal that comes directly here, and none of us has been prepared for, and we in the Workers' Party are going to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e262	A few reflections around the representative Opseth's post: I'm quite in agreement with him in that one might be very quick to shout at the state at its time, and it probably also meant the central government about the leader of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, who was disunity in the strategy that the center had put up for development. Now, one agreed on it afterwards, and it's okay, but so today there's no call to the state in general. But it's clear that if we just wait and see how far the market goes, there'll be someone who's going to get very into the back yard. There is some pressure here today, and I am partly satisfied with the Council of State when it comes to the pace of feedback – and not only in part, but I am delighted that it will come to the State budget. On the other hand, it's quite obvious that it's very necessary that we also get a common understanding of what's in this trick. I'd like to ask the Council of State about that, for example. it is that the renewal programme should have a dimension which means that it is the municipalities that are willing to invest something in themselves, that gets business to account for the state, and not just those that are now very fast and that we refer to as an example, which is to be given the opportunity, that everyone can have a unified understanding of what it is to represent. It'll be important here. It is also a bit of the same thing as the representative, Stolt-Nielsen, said. There has been a certain occasion for discussion about IT Fornebu here today. Let me say that when we first got the decisions that were made, we all have to hope that one gets good results out of IT Fornebu. But I record that what has so far been reported to be going on is what was actually done by the former government, the very center of research. It's going to be all right. That's good, and it's forward-looking thinking. But everything that was going to happen to the huge area, we see that it's hard to get investment. It does show that this was perhaps more a property project than an IT project. But it's important to know that you're going to have it now, and that you're going to have to pair your legs here, so that it really becomes a competence out of it. But I would be very pleased if we could get a unified solution here today that could be a common understanding of what the renewal programme is, and what municipalities and businesses out there can count on the state to commit themselves to in relation to hard work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e275	I still agree with my former integration Kjell Opseth that we tend to call on the state in some contexts where it is not necessary to call on the state. In the case of broadband development, we note that the majority of people here in Stortinget have chosen a form of development. But traditionally, in this country, we have chosen in important, central areas that the state builds up infrastructure. It could be anything from roads to telenor and our entire telecommunications network. It was built out of the state to reach everyone, and it later turned out that it was a good economy for the state as well. We would probably want the state to take greater responsibility on the development side and not just on the demand side when developing broadband networks. What we are now doing in our proposal is asking the Council of State to come back to Stortinget and say whether the market is working. If it works well enough, so that we get an extension across the country and it doesn't become a bias by central strokes getting a faster extension than the rest of the country, that's good. But it's important that the Storting get a briefing on that. So Kjell Opseth says that we are both ‘sidrum’ and ‘sidrum’ – there are no limits to how much is wrong with the Norwegian people. We know that Norway is in the forefront of mobile phone use, and we are in the forefront of using the Internet. So it's clearly wrong to say that we're so very slow and we're so "trapped", as he presents us. Then I'm a little unsure whether he encourages anarchy, or whether it's some kind of Stalinism that comes to light when he tells us that if it doesn't progress in the municipality of Bærum, either Telenor will take over and control the development, or the state will take over and rule the municipality of Bærum. I'm a little shocked by the kind of attitude you have towards the democratic decision-making processes in this country, and we're going to have some respect for it. I accept that we can put ourselves on a more centralist/stalinist line and say that OK, then the state gets to take over, and then we get to control it. But I do not think that is a good solution in the name of democracy. So to the proposals that are available. I notice that we have been given a lot of “attaches” for our proposals, and that should be lacking – that is good suggestions and important proposals. I see that getting a vote here will make them downcast, so I can already say that we're turning them into transmission proposals, and then we're assuming that the Council of State will follow up. With regard to the other proposals, we have great sympathy for the Morten Lund proposal. With regard to the proposal for Marit Tingelstad, it is very local, and it is difficult to decide on it, so I should at least strongly wish it was sent. Decentralizing, moving out workplaces is important, so that's how we agree. But to say here today that they're just going there, we have problems with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e293	First, to the proposal of the representative, Mr Rikvam, asking for his own orientation. We'll present a review in the autumn, and then we'll see in the next spring whether we're going to file a separate case on progress so far, early in the spring or as late as the revision. As far as his second proposal is concerned, the Ministry of Transport is already in the process of identifying the conditions for transport routes — the report will be available this summer — and also the question of coordinating the various ditches that are now being seen in several places. Its full monitoring could also contribute to more efficient broadband deployment. Otherwise, the representative from the Coastal Party asked what the state was going to contribute. It has been clear the whole time, since we presented the first IT statement, that the state should contribute where the market does not reach. But a large majority in Stortinget has taken the line that we are going to increase public demand, and that market players, as far as possible, are going to compete for the job. That way, we're assuming that we can get a faster development, and that there's going to be a smaller part that the state is going to go into. And then it's been set up that by the end of 2002, schools, public libraries, hospitals, etc. offer broadband connectivity and all households by the end of 2004. It is clear that this is what we are now laying down a progress plan, both in a report in the state budget, which the representative Lilletun has taken up, and by coming back with a specific matter on how far we have actually come, so that we should be sure that we can follow it up as far as possible, and be able to get it practical. But we've been quite aware the whole time that it's not everywhere the actors want to expand themselves. I fully agree with Mr Lilletun's representative on the renewal programme. It is a very important programme, but it is also the value programme. Then we have to make sure that SND, who is an actor here, doesn't have to change its arrangements about every six months. It makes it pretty unsatisfactory for those who are going to do it. Finally, with regard to the consultation on public transport to Fornebu, I would like to say that it is finished on 6 June. I hope you can get a solution, not least for the sake of IT Fornebu, but also Telenor, who is going out with so many employees there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e311	I don't think we'll be done talking about broadband development so quickly and in what way it's going to happen. A principle for development was adopted on the basis of a progress plan, which the Council of State will no longer guarantee. I noticed that it was said that the pressure on market players will decrease, and it would be unfortunate if there would be State involvement to help those who live extremely – most from the centre – in Norway to get broadband connectivity and ensure that they get it within the timescale that is. I think it's a shame, but we're going to discuss further if that's exactly what the majority of the Biggest decided. Then the representative, Opseth, says that there are always people calling at the state and saying that now the state has to come and help us. And those who do it today say the same thing that Thorbjørn Jagland said just before the government change. «... we have thought that it does not keep leaving this to the private players in the market – it must be government-led to," said Jagland at the time. So it's no more dramatic what's now being said than what was said at the time. So the representative, Brandsnes, says that there's a lot of reasons companies move to Oslo, and that the main reason why his business needs to be here is that this is where it happens. So his company has found out that to get jobs, to get close to those who are going to buy something, one actually has to be there physically. But the point of the IT revolution and our knowledge society is that the physical distance should be removed. It shall be possible to be present without being there physically. Then there are two situations that are mentioned: those who are being overlooked because they are not here, and those who are not being told about the jobs because they are not here. And that's what the state has to make sure that the missions become known. And that's what's in my proposal. Those who stay far away from Oslo must be treated and have opportunities on equal terms with those in Oslo. I see no reason to draw that proposal. Those who do not find it possible for them to vote in favour of the principle set out in the proposal must, of course, vote against it. I recommend that it be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e320	I can assure the representative Morten Lund that the state should be a driver so that anyone who needs it can access broadband or high-speed networks to the needs they have. So there's no change in the Labour Party's policy in this area, even though some people are trying to make it like this. Once again, I call for local involvement to develop a network of access points that is in the interest of users, in order to ensure that users are taken care of in relation to the providers of the motorway services. It's quite obvious, with all the actors we get in that area, that those who have a access network have a strong competitive edge. Then to the representative Lilletun. Yes, I understand that there is still a need to present what is happening at Fornebu, as a property project. But as long as there's no possibility of using the existing locals adequately, or moving into the locals to move into, it's clear that it's not so good to prove that this is going to be like the multiples here in the hall think it will be, namely an engine in the development of information technology. And then we're going to hope that the next few days we're going to get past this bend that's right there, that those who are responsible for giving us licenses also give it. That's what I'm saying: if not, the state must also have a responsibility here – and there's nothing Stalinist about it. The law provides for state control plans, and it has been used in some circumstances. It can also be used in this respect if national considerations require it to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e329	I understand that some of the problems associated with the Fornebu area are now of such a nature that the Opseth democratic mindset is put to a tough test. Such trials are also required when one’s career is in good shape. That the state should take over the regulatory work so that his nearest last will could be carried out, I will at least register – and then I will talk about his last political will. What I could imagine asking the Council of State is whether she shares Opseth's suggestion that to the extent that you don't get what you want, you're prepared to use the rice behind the mirror that Opseth described relatively picturesquely. Kongshaug was dissatisfied with some essential points in the budget, and it is not unique to Kongshaug. Most of the Norwegian people, and not least the Norwegian business community, have signaled this for a relatively long time, and that this recognition has also come to Kongshaug, although after the national meeting, is of great interest. As for what has been said about broadband, I think I found Rikvam had a formulation that was not bad. He said this shouldn't be a new religion. I have to say that part of the most avid ‘megaphones’ for state funding in order to add broadband to the smallest outlets, to any fjord arm, in reality goes over all the boots. In the development of infrastructure, we have always laid the foundation of the food-benefit principle. And it's clear that you can't do this with 100 pst. a guarantee for such a short period of time as it has been provided. The strategy that the Council of State and the Government have chosen, and which has great upswing in the Storting, I think, in reality, is the only dangerous path in the real world. And most of us relate to the world of reality – at least for much of the year. I was also going to ask the Council of State for proposal No. 3, from Morten Lund, is a timely proposal as it exists. Is it true that there is a practice in the department and the directorate that contradicts what is in the proposal? Or is it a proposal that actually opens an open door to a practice that already exists? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e342	In response to the representative Gabrielsen, I would like to say that I take Opseth's views and opinions, just as I take with me what has come out of others. I hope that everyone will put themselves in the harness to get this case resolved in remembrance. I'll think that most people want jobs like, among other things. Telenor represents, in its municipality. It has been planning for a long time – and one can disagree with IT Fornebu – that Telenor should move out with several thousand of its employees, and they are so important to us with all of their development department, research and everything they do, that I would think most municipalities wanted them. I am also pleased with the opening-up of the broadband policy that has been set up in the past, while at the same time keeping up with the possible ‘black spots’ and ensuring that the State is involved and contributing. But it's interesting that now companies in Finnmark are appearing that are very offensive in relation to how much of Finnmark they can actually cover. Most of us would like to think that part of the edges had to be the first places where there were such black spots, but then maybe that's not entirely right, because there are actually initiatives and opportunities. So to the proposal that Morten Lund has put forward. I'm not sure what that means. For is it not the case with all the rules we have set up, EEA agreements, public acquisitions and what it would be like to follow certain procedures? So based on that, if that's what's actually now grounded in our laws at both state and local level, I can't see that there's anything in the way that this could get in touch with everyone – unless Morten Lund has hidden something in his sleeve with his formulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e351	At least the President can't look into any more sleeves. That means that the debate on case No. 3 is over. [[Fotation, see page 2987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e365	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e374	The proposal, which is being promoted today, will be examined more closely and dealt with in the context of the review of the revised national budget. That is why I see no reason to spend a lot of time on this matter today. However, I will be shown that there was an approximately overall food committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, behind the budget line from this autumn, where it says: ‘The majority of the Committee... considers that there is a need to monitor closely the development of various support schemes by the shipbuilding industry in the EU. In particular, this aid shall relate to winding-up, restructuring, innovation, R & D, environmental protection and regional investment aid.’;» Of course, it is of great importance for the Workers' Party that competitiveness is not impaired in relation to our competitors. The Government has signalled that it will continue to provide the Norwegian shipbuilding industry with internationally competitive framework conditions. It would be natural here to have close and good cooperation with all parties in the industry. In this context, an initiative will be taken by the Government to develop a conversion and innovation programme for the shipbuilding industry. For the Workers' Party, it is important to take care of our proud traditions as a shipbuilding and maritime nation and secure this industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e390	Should Norwegian shipyards claim to be in an increasingly tough competition, the key is competence. It's important that you're in place, and that you're in place at the right time. In Norway we have a fragmented shipbuilding industry with many small shipyards, subcontractors and ship consultants. We can be proud of the maritime cluster we have several places along the coast, not least in my own home country of Moor and Romsdal, which is among the foremost in the world. Some of us know about the project Seaway@2010. This project shall mobilise the maritime sector for increased research and development efforts. This is an initiative that the industry itself has taken. It is important for the public to become an effective team player in the economic context, and for the instrument to be adapted so that cooperation goes free of squeaks and unbureaucratic. Otherwise, I record that the EU is once again considering reintroducing yard support in some form. I urge the Council of States to follow closely – and I am reasonably sure that she will – in any new legislation that may be introduced into the EU, and that she return to the Stortinget case if necessary, so that the Norwegian shipbuilding industry is guaranteed a level playing field with other shipyards in Europe. In its reply to the Business Committee, the Council of State states that it will return to the content of Document No. the 8th proposal in the revised national budget. The revised national budget states that a forward-looking state budget for 2002 will assess the case. What matters to the Left is what I said in the introduction, that the distinction and the possibilities for Norwegian shipyards are to be in the lead in terms of competence, and that we are there in the right time. If competence is to be useful as a competitive factor, it is also essential that it is included in the course and early out. Therefore, the proposers stress that the matter is urgent, and that one does not have to come back all the time, but let things happen in public as well. One of the most important things that now has to happen is the investment in R & D, and there's little tolerance for postponing. With regard to the new concept of fast ferries, called FerryCat, I understand from the media that this has gone well. I have not hesitated to check what the Government says in the revised national budget about it, and whether there is anything about it there. But if the media were to be right this time, I would like to commend the Council of State for contributing to the necessary progress of this concept, for this is tomorrow's ferry solution project, in my opinion. I would also like to challenge the Council of State to comment on paragraph 2 of our proposal – whether there are any arrangements that can help to cover the development costs of the fast ferry journeys, so that the project with FerryCat gets the necessary progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e405	I dare to argue that the Government is pursuing seduction policies in relation to maritime industries both to land and to water. Our EEA relationship imposes a good deal of obligations on Norwegian business, but it also opens up different aid schemes that could distort international competition if they are not followed up in the same way from country to country. It seems to me that the Government is behind other industrial nations in Europe in order to ensure the competitiveness of national businesses. When the State budget was presented in the autumn, it was stated by the Government that there would be a high level of readiness to meet any new support schemes aimed at the shipyards when the direct countermeasure fell away. Support for the development of new ship types is such a mechanism that it is possible to implement under EU legislation. But the Government's willingness to contribute to new developments in shipbuilding and the development of new types of ships, thereby contributing to the maintenance of coastal business, seems to me somewhat halfhearted. By St. Prp. No 84 it appears that the Government wishes to provide Norwegian shipyards with the same framework conditions as other shipyards within the EEA territory. - Closer to the same framework conditions. Why not the same ones? And why should Norway wait and see to it that everyone else has set up new schemes? Why not contribute to Norway’s primary role in the development of new technologies in maritime industries? Now I am aware that the order books are largely full until the end of 2003, and apparently there is no urgency about any new support measures. But it is true that if a person wants to maintain a level playing field, it is not useful to wait until the first redundancies come before taking the necessary steps to contribute to the research and development necessary to maintain and develop the competitiveness of Norwegian shipyards, and thus to employment in the yard industry. It has not been so long since the survey hours in the Storting were marked by the situation that occurred in the yard industry when the effect of reduced contracting aid went into effect, and when the investment in the oil-related shipyards almost simultaneously stopped abruptly. Structural unemployment hit the coast hard, but it was talked away as overcapacity and the need for labour conversion. The industry is now talking about the need for restructuring and specialisation, where the cluster effect can be better exploited, provided that the contracting volume is sufficiently large. If the industry is to make the necessary transition, it will be necessary to increase research efforts in the environments currently operating the shipbuilding industry. The industry will increase its own research efforts, but it is reasonable to expect that it will also contribute funds to ensure that the Norwegian shipbuilding industry retains both its competence and its competitiveness. To achieve the objective of strengthening Norway’s position as world leader in maritime transport, industry and offshore operations by 2010, the Government needs to show a positive attitude to contribute to research and development, and programmes and schemes focusing on the maritime cluster should be in the forefront of development elsewhere in Europe, otherwise we will be overlooked by nations that see the value of maritime competence maintenance and skills growth. Then there is no reason why the government should sit on the fence and wait and see what others are doing. The government must make use of the possibilities contained in authorised support schemes for restructuring, innovation, regional investment aid, research and development and environmental aid programmes. Then it does not seem that the Minister of Economic Affairs wants to, but does not, because the Minister of Finance has put himself on the money bag. That the Government pushes all the challenges in the maritime industries over to the next fiscal year, reinforces my impression that if only the Government is able to carry this out beyond the elections, then the Governing Board around any government change and intrusion wires in the submitted budget can draw attention away from the promises made during this process, and the Workers' Party does not have the political will to follow up. It may then be possible to get the development outlined in the Regional Communication that the maritime environments in the North West will collapse. Such a policy will be countered in the Coastal Party, and I do not believe that the Workers' Party should feel too confident that all coastal vigilance will be gone when new bulwarks come together for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e425	I would like to point out that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government has also carried out a wide-ranging treatment of the shipbuilding industry. It's allocated a net of 850 million. in support of contracts concluded and signalled that the Government will continue to give international competitive conditions to the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. The Government aims to develop a conversion and innovation programme for the shipbuilding industry. This programme will be developed in consultation with industry. As part of this, it is also natural to consider strengthening the country-wide instruments of the State Food and Rural Development Fund and of the Norwegian Research Council. In this context, I would like to stress that if the efforts of the authorities are to be fully effective, it is necessary for the industry itself to take responsibility for specialising, adopting new technologies and adapting its own industry to new production principles. We know a lot about this, after the study that Arild Hervik has done by the maritime industries. Because, as is the case, they're far too low in competence. Although some are skilled, they use too little of their business to improve on the competence side. And it is absolutely necessary if this industry is to meet tomorrow's challenges. The Norwegian shipbuilding industry will be competitive in a market in which all compete under the same economic framework conditions. Therefore, it is an objective of the Government to reduce state aid to the shipbuilding industry through international agreements. And that's what the whole Storting has joined in. We are following very closely the development of what is now happening in the EU. The Ministers for Industry to meet with the Council of Ministers tomorrow. The reason why they may decide to continue with the aid is that South Korea, which has been in a very difficult situation, increases its capacity, not least within tankers and container ships. I have just been to Korea and addressed these issues directly with them, also because Norway is a large shipbuilder in Korea. I want to have my own meeting with the South Koreans this morning in Paris to discuss how to remedy this situation, so that it does not enter the WTO as a conflict. Because it comes as a conflict to the WTO, if the EU follows Korea, it will take several years before it can be decided to reduce the amount of shipbuilding aid. Therefore, we have to hope that it does not happen, and that we can get a system in which we can switch to competence development programmes, as we have been configured from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e436	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e439	I am aware of the international conditions in the shipbuilding industry that the Council of State Knudsen has now explained, but I am afraid that in Norway we are going to sit and keep Korea in our ears, while Europe is doing something quite different. So we can't wait too long. We must not lose the advantage of being a competent nation in the shipbuilding and shipping industries. We see that the industry itself is aware of its restructuring needs. They're willing to go in financially, they'll specialize. Our obligation as a wholesaler must then be to contribute within the regulatory framework in force in the EEA territory. But it has been a problem for the Norwegian industry that one just puts ten meters behind when the others set off. We always have something in Norwegian industry – extra taxes, extra taxes or somewhat lower support schemes – that makes our industries competitive compared to the Europeans. We can't have it like this. We must have an internationally competitive framework for all business if we are to survive in tomorrow's world. This also applies, of course, to the professions of competence. And what's related to maritime business are competence industries; it's actually a high level of competence and a high level of use of ICT. – But some still welding the plates.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e462	The EOS Committee has now been in operation for approx. five years. The committee delivered its own evaluation opinion, which was printed as Annex 1 to the configuration. The Control and Constitutional Committee has delivered an opinion, printed as Annex 2. The Presidency believes that the work of the sample must be said to have fulfilled the intentions of the Stortingen when the Control Act and the instructions were adopted in 1995. Therefore, the Presidency does not see the need for material changes in the work of the sample or in the legislation. The change now proposed by the Presidency in the instructions is purely formal and results from the fact that the sample no longer has access to appeals. The Presidency has noted the description by the sample of the voltage ratio between the application of the principle of subsequent verification by the sample and the ability of the sample to require transparency and to comment on ongoing issues. The committee has pointed out the importance of ongoing monitoring in a way that does not act as a governing body for services, and the Presidency, on its part, will stress the importance of this. As regards the right of access to the sample, the Presidency agrees with the sample that there is no need for regulatory changes. The committee believes that there could have been an advantage if, in very special cases, it had been possible to provide the Size Graded Information. The Presidency does not lack an understanding of this view but, after an overall assessment of the Committee's position, concludes that there should be no legislative or administrative changes in this area. Another issue raised relates to unannounced inspections. The Presidency does not consider it appropriate to propose that a provision to that effect be included in the instructions. As far as I can interpret the Storting, there is a broad consensus that the EOS Committee is working well. The job being done is completely satisfactory. The Presidency has therefore found no reason to go deeper into the issues discussed by the sample in its evaluation. Otherwise, I refer to the presidency's position, which is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e479	I do not need anything other than a brief comment on the position given by the Presidency after the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has given its opinion on the matter. A little bit of a reflection, perhaps: this is a parliamentaryally appointed committee of inquiry, and the historical justification for that is known to all of us. We also know that of course there have been some initial problems – I think we can call it today – with regard to how the sample should perform its control functions. But it has happened gradually, and today I think a unanimous increase can be seen that we now have a control regime against the secret services that both the secret services and the public are served with. My only comment is that the sample has a very clear law and instructions to deal with. When the Presidency says that there is no reason to suggest that provisions be made on unannounced inspections, it must be understood that the sample must assess the manner in which it is to carry out its work on the basis of law and instructions, as they apply, and that it does not, of course, preclude unannounced inspections from being the best way to carry out its tasks. Otherwise, we are very pleased with the fact that this sample was reduced, that the law and instructions are as they are, and that they are. Both the service and the public have served to ensure that there are now clean conditions in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e490	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e498	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e505	In the course of the debate, Mr Valle has put forward proposals. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e508	I have received many strong requests that proposal No. 1 should be converted into a transmission proposal. It indicates that there are at least some people who want to look further at it. That is why I ask that proposal No. 1 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e513	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, has thus been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate an experiment where municipal and state agencies in some municipalities are included in a system of consumer guarantees and service statements linked to public service rights. Consumer guarantees and service declarations must include, inter alia: include quality and the provision of services at the agreed time.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate procedures for reduced working hours and shorter normal working days in the State sector.’ [[6-hour day]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e532	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Labour and Administration at the meeting on 10 May 2001 on administrative policy be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e554	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Rolf Rikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, from Marit Tingelstad on behalf of the Centre Party The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, by the Socialist Left Party, during the debate, has been converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide its own information and assessment of the functioning of the market, so that all parts of the country have satisfactory access to broadband and that development takes place in parallel in the districts and in more central parts of the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government implement instruments that stimulate developers to cooperate on infrastructure in order to avoid socio-economic waste and unnecessary pressures on the environment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e585	With regard to the proposal that I have made, I have been advised that it should rather be promoted on a later occasion, in one case the Stortinget will consider later in the spring. I would like to draw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e590	The President noted that proposal No. 4, from Marit Tingelstad on behalf of the Center Party, has been withdrawn. The President is then left with one theme for voting. That is proposal No. 3, by Mr Morten Lund, on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that ICT providers from all over the country are given the opportunity to compete on an equal footing in the supply of goods and services to all departments and directorates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e604	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade at the Storting meeting on 8 May 2001 on IT policy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e679	No. 281 is proposed to the Judicial Committee, which shall submit its draft referral to the Defence Committee for an opinion before the vote is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e682	Sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e689	Olav Gunnar Ballo is given the word of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e692	The rescue helicopter service should, in the SV’s view, be seen in the context of the air ambulance service, and the case should therefore, in the SV’s view, also be referred to the Social Committee for an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14-2.ana.ud860e697	The President has not seen any other reactions, and the President will alternately allow votes between Mr. Mr Ballo's proposal, to send the matter to the Social Committee as well, and the presidency's proposal, which is to send it to the Judicial Committee, which then submits its draft position only to the Defence Committee before the vote is given.
