ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e31	The representative Steinar Bastesen shall apply for sick leave from 15 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Arvid Falch, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e49	Arvid Falch is present and will take the seat. The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e54	On behalf of myself, I would like to make suggestions on the development of port activities in the Oslo region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e82	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 85 minutes, Christian People's Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Cross-Political People's Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines of response following the speeches by the parliamentary leaders and by other members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e93	The long-term programme provides us with an opportunity to discuss the longer-term lines of policy, to highlight slightly beyond the daily individual issues and to discuss developments over time. The long-term programme we are discussing is the first one in a new century. The last century was marked by a trend in which, at the turn of the century, we were among Europe's absolute poorest countries, until, at the end of the century, we were among the richest countries in the world, a country characterised by high employment, a high share of common goods, relatively even distribution of wealth compared to other countries and a high level of security. It gives us a good starting point to choose the way forward – we have better opportunities than most. The well-being we enjoy today is gradually being built up – step by step. All the way around, having a value-creating business that provides the basis for the values that we'll later distribute has been the means to further develop society. The last example of reform — the reform of the elderly — is a good example of just that. A laborious planning has led us to gradually get into almost 30,000 housing units, spend 34 milliards and have planned both the personnel side and the operational side, so that the goal of a better older reform becomes a reality. The solidarity option has produced good results. We have increased employment, limited price increases, a welfare promise and at the same time real wage improvements. The Government’s long-term programme aims to continue the solidarity option. If we're going to do it, modernisation of the public sector, efficient use of resources and more services for each of the crown tasks that we've now solved, and that we need to continue. Not least in the health sector, this is evident. Norway is among the countries in the world that spend the most money on health, yet we are not at the top of health outcomes. We are the country in Europe that has the best medical coverage, but yet there are deficiencies in health services that we need to do something about. Then we have to deploy more resources, yes, but we also have to use the resources better. This is why we are now putting pressure on us to propose – and hopefully implement – a hospital reform aimed at clarifying the allocation of responsibilities and at improving the coordination of resources. This is also the background for us to carry out the determination reform these days, so that we can also have a more effective use of primary healthcare resources. That's why we want to continue the health plans we've set up within, for example. areas cancer and psychiatry. In the child and youth sectors, too, we believe that the time has come for further lifting. With the previous government, we experienced that kindergarten expansion stopped about – at least it braked heavily. Our goal ahead of the next period is to get more kindergartens, so that freedom of choice becomes real for the many parents who do not have access to kindergarten today, and then make kindergartens cheaper. Our goal is to have a school leisure system that does not exclude children from the personal economy. Our goal is to have a school without self-esteem – an equivalent, good, public school. We believe it is a quality in itself that the child of the director and the child of the worker attends the same good public school. We also believe it would be a right priority to ensure that the cost of books in high school is reduced. All these things are important in themselves, but they are also important to help provide access to labour and enable a young couple to both participate in the labour market. The setting of the long-term programme clearly shows that the different batches have their own comments. The setting is characterized by special comments, and I would say: Some remarks are particularly strange! But on some crucial points, there is broad consensus, and that is what is referred to in a separate message from the Government, St.meld. No 29), on economic policy guidelines. On 29 March this year, the Council of State approved the establishment of a new monetary policy regulation. The stability of the exchange rate over time is the objective of monetary policy, but there is an operational target for implementation that points towards stable inflation of 2.5 p.p., with the potential for a fluctuation margin of +/- 1 p.p. Furthermore, it has been said that the target should be «forward-looking» and that short-term disturbances of a temporary nature should be disregarded. The Bank of Norway previously practiced the old currency regulation with a view to a level of inflation of 2 p.m. So it's a new signal, but it's obvious – based on the reactions that have come after the new regulation is established – that it is not perceived as a dramatic signal; it gives stability over time. That is why I am very pleased that a clear majority takes note of these guidelines. At the same time, guidelines were put forward for budgetary policy, and the most important element there is that we should rely for the future on using the real yield of the oil fund. We're going to continue to work for cyclical smoothing, as the message says. But the predictability that is now embedded in how we're going to gradually take the real return on the money we have on book, into the economy, is a contribution to avoiding rapid changes as a result of, for example, the fact that we have a book. short-term fluctuations in the oil price. It is a governance rule that provides predictability for business and for the development of well-being in society. Those main lines are a broad consensus. It is only the SV and the Progress Party that are not in favour of joining them, and I believe that there is reason to pay tribute to the case rapporteur, Per-Kristian Foss, who has helped to build the broad platform on which it is based. Then there is a solid foundation for economic policy in the future. There is a broad consensus that is not reversed by any change of government, and there is stability and predictability in economic policy. It gives all government options in question about the same framework, thus giving clearer choices between the different government options. For example, it will. say that if you want to turn around with big tax promises, yes, it becomes less to well-being. Our alternative continues to be the development of well-being, step by step, national and international solidarity and sustainable environmental policies based on responsible and predictable economic conditions. That's how we're going to use the opportunity in one of the countries, maybe that country, that more than anything else can call itself the society of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e122	In working on the long-term programme, the Christian People's Party has suggested that we want a social development in the years to come, where the interpersonal values are given greater space – a policy that is anchored in our national and Christian heritage. The challenges we face are to ensure a value base for governance of society, secure defence-related environmental development and contribute to positive development for the districts and stable business environment. We mean to increase the investment in research and development where close cooperation with local businesses will be important for innovation, especially in fisheries and aquaculture. The committee leader was in his post in some of these areas, but what I miss most is the willingness to invest in district policy. The working party says in a comment in the setting that they "join the desire to preserve the main features of the housing pattern". This testifies to a lack of commitment to giving free action to lead an active district policy. That is why my question is addressed to the representative Dag Terje Andersen: What concrete action is the Workers' Party going to take to achieve good development in the districts, so that there is something more than a 'want for'?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e129	The area that the representative now addressed is just one of the areas where I am convinced, for my part, that the best solution is found in a cooperation between the centre and the Workers' Party. I think that's where the best solutions for the districts lie. That is why, in the state budget we have submitted and in the municipal economic proposition that came at the same time as last Friday, we have committed to strong growth in the municipal sector – a strengthening of the municipal sector far beyond what has ever happened in the past. That is why we are focusing on active business development in the districts, where, of course, we are and the centre that stands together to defend schemes proposed by the right-hand side, among other things. There is no doubt that some of the foundations for strong development in the districts of Norway must be the public sector — the municipal sector, state activities in the districts, etc. That's why it's with great amazement I see in Innst. S. No 229, page 7, column 1 that the Christian People's Party has chosen to stay with the Right on a formulation that it should be a goal that the growth of the public sector should not exceed the growth of the mainland economy. If it is serious, it is a clear signal of a new line choice where the public sector is given less priority than it has been in the past. And I'm pretty sure that if the Christian People's Party were to form a majority together with the parties on the right in such a position, then it would go heavily beyond the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e134	I would like to thank the honor who helped me as the case rapporteur for the vote on the said St.meld. No 29. This concerns the broad consensus established, but also the dissidents recently quoted. I'm just as happy with both of them. The consensus that is established is important. It is important to agree on the generational perspective of establishing a kind of framework understanding for the outer boundary of what we call the petroleum fund, but which is the oil fund. We hope that agreement can be maintained, even when questions are raised about starting out in advance before entering the state budget. As you know, there are also proposals for this from last year's budgetary conciliation. I was going to talk about taxes in this context, and I am recording that more and more workers' party representatives believe that enough is enough and fear to come back to Stortinget to adopt new taxes and taxes. Oslo Arbeiderparti's self-appointed campaign candidate, Rune Gerhardsen, warns the fire at Youngstorget of unnecessary regulations and a fight against the Minister of Finance's fees. In the last year's debate, there was in fact a disagreement about the top tax, but at present the Prime Minister says that he is 'a little' in agreement with the Right in terms of the top tax. I would like to challenge the head of the Financial Committee and the Labour Party Chief Spokesman on tax matters to elaborate on what “a little” agreement with the Right implies in terms of top tax, and why such agreement is actually established after the adoption of what the top tax should be for ordinary labour income in the current year. So can we trust a party that doesn't turn around in time, but turns around after it's too late?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e143	Yes, first of all, I agree that it's an advantage for everyone that we have some financial framework that is relatively common to prevent rapid returns in the economy. So to tax. I have recorded that the Right has a need to talk a lot about taxes, and that in some contexts they need to produce the tax system as worse than it is, in order to get a swing on the discussion. It is a reality that Norway, in a Nordic context, or compared with other countries with a high level of well-being, does not have a particularly high level of taxation, in terms of taxation of persons, in terms of business taxation, in terms of property and housing taxes. However, we are high in one area, and there are charges — not particularly high on VAT, but particularly high on some charges. Here we have proposed reliefs to be more similar to the countries that are around us and to which we have a significant trade leakage. Our answer for the next period is primarily to use the space for action to meet those who need the best. That's why we want to get rid of excesses in school, make kindergartens cheaper and more accessible, etc. But then we have also said that there is no reasonableness in the fact that the peak tax, step 1, should be introduced into large general groups of workers – that is when the point of entry is too low. There is one thing that we will give priority to within a responsible economic framework, because it has never been intended that general income or something above general income should be taken by the top tax. That's the signal the Prime Minister has sent out, and I have the impression that there is a broad consensus. I am recording that the Right in its option for this year proposed a limit of NOK 300,000, and that they are now talking about 320,000. I don't know if it's turning in time, or whether it's rather turning in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e154	Throughout the speech to the representative Dag Terje Andersen, there was a lot of talk about the long-term lines, reforms, modernisation of the public sector, but tax was only mentioned. It was mentioned only in one context, and it was in a kick to other parties about big tax promises, which, according to Dag Terje Andersen, would give less to well-being. Fees were not mentioned in one word in the presentation of the views of the Workers' Party on the long-term programme. It means a challenge, because the tax and tax system and the tax and tax levels are one of the areas where people are most concerned and, to the extent that business is also the most concerned at the moment, have the least understanding of the moment, and where there is a huge mismatch between what people perceive as a fair level of taxes and charges, and what they feel they get back for everything they pay into the treasury. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear what long-term lines Daag Terje Andersen sees in the tax policy of the Workers' Party. When he stressed in his last line that the fees in Norway are relatively higher than in our neighbouring countries, and at the same time it is known that high charges in themselves may be the most unsocial, which means that those who have at least before have to pay more in taxes, yes, it is clear that this is a major challenge, because people are struggling to get the ends to meet. And then I could imagine knowing in what areas there are Dag Terje Andersen seeing reliefs in the fees, and how quickly and in what time perspective you can see reductions in tax and tax pressures in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e159	Yes, I said that the total tax and tax level in relation to the total income in the country is actually lower than in the countries around us, we actually had to increase that level by 50 billion kroner if we were to get at the same level as Sweden. Within that total we are higher than our neighbouring country on taxes, at a good deal of taxes we are lower. The representative Jensen referred to fees as most unsocial; I'd rather say it would be to implement the fiscal regime of the Progress Party, because that would give a dramatic interest rate increase and really hit hard those who have little, and make sure to distribute more to those who have much. We're not going to promise any more about taxes, we're not going to participate in that competition at all. But we're doing a lot. The fuel tax is for the first time now from the New Year actually decreased by 50 cents, the diesel tax is reduced, so that we in total get up to 1,13 kroner in the course of the year, and the taxes on cassettes and on videograms are reduced. There are a large number of charges in which we have actually cleaned up, and none of those things were cleaned up when the Progress Party was involved and adopted a budget for Norway. The progress party has done it twice, but then the fees went up, they went more than the price rise, on spirits, on tobacco, on petrol, on diesel. So the Progress Party – yes, now perhaps the President is offended – talks about fees, but we are actually doing something about it. And then, what will we do in the future? Yes, the first round will be July 1st. Despite the fact that many try to make a Russian revision number out of the VAT reform to be carried out then, the sum of the changes made to taxes on 1 July, including a reduction in the petrol tax, which is part of the package, will make a normal family with two children a net relief of NOK 1800. That's our next step. Our main objective, however, is to extend well-being. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e168	When the president clubs, it's not because he's offended, but because the speaking time is too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e172	The Labour Party and, in particular, the Prime Minister have recently focused heavily on the fact that the alternative to a working party government is a so-called right-wing government – I was saying: with all its beings. And many people will ask, how credible is this terror agitation on the part of the Workers' Party? For political reality, the Workers' Party is seeking support in the Stortinget from the parties with which the Workers' Party is simultaneously trying to scare the voters. What are the issues? That's big stuff. We can mention the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has announced that it is not excluded that there can be a Norwegian EU application in the next period. Here the Workers' Party is based on support from the Right. We have a controversial hospital reform, which in any case is being disengaged far away from the elected government. We have structural changes, transformations, centralisation that weaken public service provision and that have created the basis for the Finnmark uprising. We have environmental policy with the gas power issue, and we have also recorded that the Workers' Party is now more on the right in its assessment of the Bush administration's undermining of the Kyoto agreement. Lars Gunnar Lie mentioned district policy, we could mention agricultural policy, where there is a shift in disfavor of small and medium-sized uses. If the Workers' Party is to continue to frighten with right-wing policies, should not the party also soon take on the political consequences of this agitation, rather than frighten itself with a policy of which the Workers' Party itself is becoming a part?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e181	If that reply was meant to be an invitation to the Workers' Party to cooperate, then I thank you for that. It is possible that it was meant to be a mild recommendation. At least it cannot be characterised as any raw whistling on the part of the representative Jakobsen, but I will choose to interpret it positively. For what has created discussion about any centre-right influence in society in recent times is not scares from the Workers' Party. It comes from the fact that parties like, for example, The centre party has open country meetings, and it comes out what they're doing. And when they do it about the same time as the Christian People's Party and the Left have national meetings that point in a completely different direction, and which day by day make it clearer that the distance between the center parties in many things is greater than between some of the center parties and the Workers' Party, then it's no wonder that many ask the question whether it's that part of the center – and I haven't suspected the Center Party to be part of it – could imagine going more towards the Right and company that way. It is underlined by the quotation I used instead, in relation to the fact that, fortunately, the Central Party is not part of the comment of the Christian People's Party and the Left, which adds up to a conscious limitation of the growth of the public sector. There's one example that there's a clear distinction between the lots. There should be no doubt that in the areas mentioned by Jakobsen, such as agriculture, district policy and local economy, we have actually invested so much money both in the last year and in the year that we have not only kept what we have promised, but we have actually kept what the Senterpartiet has promised – and the Senterpartiet itself has never done. That should be a good basis for further work for the benefit of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e193	The representative of Andersen's last reply to the representative of Jakobsen can hardly be understood in any other way than as an invitation to the Centre Party and not an invitation to the Centre. So here Andersen uses his whole line to tell us how much similarity there is between the Center Party and the Labour Party on important questions, and not the similarity to the Center. In this way, it's a very interesting signal, because if you're going to sum up the amount of time we're about to have, then unforeseeableness and lack of long-termity in politics may have been what best characterizes this period. Our current Prime Minister summed up the first two and a half years that there was a historically weak government that went off, that cooperated in the cabin and torment in all directions, also to the far right. After that time we have had a government that has also cooperated in all directions in the cabin and torment, completely without predictability and completely without long-term policy. This means that both Andersen and many of the Workers' Party are now seeing that if the major reforms mentioned in the long-term programme are to be implemented, more rigid constellations are needed. This has the Prime Minister himself melted the door repressively for, and said that the political distance to the two parties that are probably closest to the Workers' Party is too great. This is a rather interesting signal, because it must mean that the Right and Christian People's Party are parties closer to the Workers' Party. Then there has just been a LO Congress, where the signals were the very opposite, namely that long-term policy was the most important thing. Here, alliances must be built among the parties engaged in further development of the welfare state and not building it down. My challenge to the chairman of the committee, Andersen, is: Does he agree with the Prime Minister in these considerations? Is it so that the Workers' Party actually wants to sit in a minority government, depending on the Christian People's Party on one day, depending on the Right on the second day and depending on the Progress Party on the third day, without long-termity and predictability of the major tasks that Andersen himself addressed in his article? Or does he actually think, as the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has said before, and as the party leader, Mr Jagland, has also said, that the best thing for the country is a majority constellation that can think in the long term? Is Andersen more in agreement with Yngve Högensen than he is with his own Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e204	Firstly, I agree with Mr Djupedal that the unforeseeableness of this period in terms of parliamentary basis does not provide good stability for the implementation of important reforms, not to mention order in the economy. So Djupedal's starting point, I totally agree. Then ask the representative if I agree with the Prime Minister. And I am. But I do not agree with Djupedal's interpretation of the Prime Minister, because I have repeatedly recorded that both the Prime Minister and others mentioned by Djupedal have underlined the desire for more stable governance conditions in the future, and have not realized that there are any new signals in relation to it. But I have recorded that the Prime Minister has commented on the fact that it is not today's will among other parties that are able to form a majority together with the Workers' Party, either to have such a clear political parliamentary relationship or – even more unlikely – to form a common government. So the signal of a stable basis for government stands firm, and I therefore disagree with Djupedal's interpretation of the Prime Minister. But the point in my previous answer to the representative Jacobsen was that the last time has shown us that at least the Christian People's Party and the Left obviously are more and more different to plan B, as it is called, that is, an alternative where the Center Party might not be involved. That would be a clarification, but we have not been given any explanation of the political basis for such a possible grouping. The only thing that's clear in such a grouping is that Bondevik wants to be prime minister. There is no explanation of what, if any, should be the political basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e213	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e216	I'm not going to go into the debate on stable couple relationships. I have to say that I believe a common audience who has been listening to this debate, with excitement, would look forward to the next Bigholding debate just about the definition of ‘stable relationships’. I will, however, initially just replicate a couple of things for the debate on taxes in the line change that has now been made. The Labour Party has a very selective production of its own budget. It is true that there are some reliefs behind 12 billion kroner in tax increases. But what people are busy about is the sum of what they get, not that some things have gone down a little bit, while other things have gone up many times more. The Chairman of the Financial Committee also gives the impression that Norway, as a tax country, is basically in the middle of the tree. It is true that there are a few countries that are currently above us in total taxes and taxes as a percentage of GDP, the GDP of mainland Norway, but it is quite short. If the Swedish government's tax share forecasts remain until 2002, and if we continue as we have, Norway will have passed Sweden in the tax share by 2002. Denmark is also on its way down, so we will have a Nordic record, which in this context is also at the top of OECD countries. Another way of measuring it in relation to enterprises is for example: to look at the tax share, i.e. what companies pay in tax as a percentage of GDP or as a percentage of total taxation. Whatever the comparison, Norway is both above the OECD average and above the EU average. You just can't get away with that. The government’s long-term programme clearly shows that there is a need for a government change. The message contains many good analyses, but the government comes with few answers. In fact, I don't remember any previous long-term programme that has had so little concrete policy in it. In its time, the Bondevik government criticized the fact that it did not deal with the problems, but instead appointed constantly new samples to investigate everything – I had almost said – between heaven and earth. The Labour Party agreed to this criticism at the time – before they took over the government offices themselves. Prime Minister Stoltenberg went so far as to characterise the Bondevik government as ‘uniquely weak’ at that time, that is, before his prime minister’s time. But what does the Workers' Party do now? Well, they're putting down even more samples to figure out even more. To give an example, it is nothing but a paralysis when the Stoltenberg government has now appointed a new commission to address the pension issues. I have brought with me two studies on pension issues – they weigh a total of 1.8 kg and contain 800 pages of final investigation – from the Moland Committee and the Olsen Committee. There are many answers and many alternatives here, but the Stoltenberg government has therefore chosen to push the problem ahead by investigating even more. If the Bondevik government was ‘uniquely weak’ because of the ever-reduced new commissions, there are no words that can describe the Stoltenberg government when it investigates the investigations. The right-hand position on these social security questions is clear. We want a security reform of popular security where we spend money on people's own pension accounts. In fact, we have confidence in most people, and are sure that they will manage their own pension funds in a good way. Unfortunately, the long-term programme is disappointing in other areas too. The government expresses great ambitions with its plans for the renewal of the public sector. However, the specific content is extremely weak. It looks as if the Government believes that the renewal of the public sector is changing the names of different agencies and shifting responsibility around within the public administration. The goal may be to give the impression of action, while not becoming unfamiliar with the Municipal Association. But concrete results will be a little bit of that. I want to remind the Workers' Party that there is no goal in itself to reorganize. The aim is to create systems that work better and that provide a better offer to the inhabitants, at a lower cost. It is necessary to reorganise in order to achieve this, but it is not the case that any reorganisation produces better results. At least it's not that the government's reforms trigger the potential for improvement that we know lies there. Going beyond such elementary things internationally as making the outsourcing of competition a general principle in all government is really going beyond the main problem. Equal treatment e.g. the charging of public and private activities should be a matter of course in order to ensure the best access to the most reasonable services. But the government also escapes this problem, like what the Communal Association demands. The government underlines in several places in the long-term programme — and it is well supported by a professional nature — that access to labour is one of the main challenges we face. At the same time, we see that the Workers' Party is joining forces with the Advance Party in order to limit labour immigration. We see that the Workers' Party joins with SV and the Center Party in order to prevent people from getting more rapid treatment in the event of a disease, by the employer paying the treatment. We see that the Workers' Party is joining forces with the Centre Parties to at least postpone changes in pension systems that may give better incentives to work now. There is one red thread in the question of labour shortages, and the Labour Party is involved in preventing all measures that can solve the problems. Most things are pushed in front of you and pushed aside. Instead of making policies to solve the country’s problems, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance use forces to attack the solutions that exist and are used in other countries. The government is concerned that the Right will have a share of the sick pay scheme and what effects this will have on some. At the same time, the Government is not willing to take the necessary steps in the hospital sector that could have caused sick people to receive treatment more quickly. There you meet on major objections – again from the Commune Federation. Instead of finding solutions, the Prime Minister spends his time figuring out what a woman with cancer gets in voluntarily in the sickness pay scheme with the Right proposal. But that the proportion for the same woman is close to 50 pst. If the disease becomes permanent and she goes into disability, the Prime Minister says nothing about it. In the right we don't think it's unreasonable that even those who have paid work have to pay a certain proportion in case of illness, when those who have long-term suffering have to pay a lot more. I cannot fully understand the logic of the Labour Party's policy in this area. The only logical explanation I can imagine is that there are far fewer trade unions among the underemployed, so that the question of self-employment in the sick pay is a question of labour rights for LO members, not of a balanced welfare system for all groups of society. I hope that this my claim is not correct, but I challenge the Workers' Party to give its explanation of the logic and attitude they stand for. For the Right, school and education are important. Good general education is the best contribution to equalising differences in society and to providing equal opportunities for all. We're all different based on different homes. The stimulus we get in our homes from our parents can vary. A middle school is not good enough to really equalize these differences and to give everyone equal opportunities to get ahead in society. It needs a better school to really work at social level. Instead of providing solutions to improve schooling for children, the Workers' Party is unilaterally committed to the school leisure system. In addition to this, the Labour Party's only contribution to the school debate is repeated attempts to blackmail the situation in a selected municipality, namely Oslo. This has no other purpose than to swear the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party that has city council responsibility in Oslo. But they don't say anything about what is the Workers' Party's alternative policy. When the criticism of Oslo School is completely unjustified at the same time, this shows how desperate the government party has become. It is a fact — to take the simple figures — that in the period 1992–96, an average of 245 million were used. kr per year for school investment in Oslo. It was under a socialist Workers' Party/SV Bureau. During the civil councils since 1997, an average of 991 million has been used. kr for the same purpose. Thus, with the Right in the City Council, four times as much has been spent on maintenance and new buildings in relation to the Labour Party Bureau. That it's still not good enough in Oslo school is absolutely true. But it does more than ever, and the reason for having a follow-up, a huge clearing job, is the lack of effort among the Workers' Party/SV bureaux. Another important area for the Right is taxes and taxes. We actually believe that Ola Nordmann should be allowed to determine more of his own income. People are getting tired of constantly new taxes and taxes. Enough is enough in that rich Norway. Yes, this is now winning far into the Workers' Party's big group, as far as I understand the statements made to the newspapers. Therefore, taxes and taxes are about the private economy of people, how far the payroll bag is going to go. But it's also about taking care of the business we have. Not necessarily exactly the businesses we have today, but a business that is competitive, dynamic and that contributes development and knowledge to the whole of society. This is about securing jobs and value creation, diversity and development. Therefore, the Right provides for a clearly lower level of taxation for Norwegian business. Here, the Workers' Party tends to bring the same old lesson – and I'm waiting for it in the lines: it's not just taxes and taxes that determine competitiveness. No, that's absolutely right. That's a lot different too. Transport and infrastructure are important, but there are not areas where the Labour Party has a particularly good point to make, and where there has been a relatively low level of investment. Education and research are important. Here is not the answer to the school leisure system, but better quality throughout our schoolwork. A broad range of industries, with a strong undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises, is important. But here, the aim of the Workers' Party is obviously to invest more strongly in the public sector, thereby increasing the growth potential of the many small and medium-sized enterprises. The Swiss college IMD compares the world’s most competitive country each year. The comparison is based on 293 different criteria, i.e. a few more than those I've now had! Here we also take into account the ‘other things’ that the Labour Party is talking about. In four years, Norway has fallen from fifth place to twentieth place on this ranking. Unfortunately, too much is going in the wrong direction, not only in terms of taxes and taxes. This is also confirmed by the OECD report that Norway will have very low productivity growth in the coming years. This is confirmed by an ever-increasing decline in industry, with fewer employees and loss of market share, as shown by the revised national budget, which was presented last Friday. It is therefore empty talk when the Workers' Party is trying to cover up that there are other things that are important for competitiveness. We're actually worse at the other things, too. In St.meld. No 29, where I am the author of the motion for a resolution, the Government put forward proposals on economic policy guidelines. The government proposed a guideline that we should use the oil revenues corresponding to the expected real return on the petroleum fund, but adjusted the cyclical situation from year to year. I am pleased that a majority of the Financial Committee has made important clarifications in relation to the Government's arrangements. Firstly, a majority, including the Workers' Party, now emphasises that a strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for further development of the welfare society. A majority of the Committee also confirms that it is an objective to maintain the scope of a competitive sector at levels similar to those at present. I am also pleased that the Labour Party is involved in remarks that nuance the results of the solidarity option. The solidarity option has not worked in the last few years because the increase in costs has been too high. The majority say that the responsibility of the social partners in the event of an increase in unemployment increases. The main features of the Government’s proposal are included in the question of the rule of action on the use of oil money. Unfortunately, it is only the Right Party and the Advance Party as well as the Bastesen representative who believe that we should also use the oil money for a security reform of popular security. However, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee emphasises that the Government’s proposal for an action rule must be adapted to the cyclical situation and that the rule of action – up to the real return of the petroleum fund – must be considered on an ongoing basis in order to capture unintended effects and new information. It is also an important signal that the majority of the Committee believes that increased use of oil money should be used for measures to improve productivity in the Norwegian economy and that tax policy, education and research and infrastructure are important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e287	I understand that the leader of Oslo Right has a great need to try to explain what is happening in Oslo policy. It is often the case that the examples come from where there are shortcomings in the welfare society that emerge. The results of the right-wing board are clear, and I understand the representative's need to explain them. However, I would rather address the very correct point made by the representative, namely that a significant part of the challenge ahead both for private business and for the development of the public sector will be to provide labour, to ensure that we have the hands to do the jobs that we as a society prioritise. It is wrong when the representative says that we do not work in relation to it. Let me give you a few examples: one of the reasons why we are proposing a shorter and more effective education course in higher education is that young people are going to get out of work a year earlier. One of the reasons for full child-care coverage is to give young people the opportunity to take an active part in working life at the start-up stage. Labour market policy intends to help people return to work if they have become unemployed. Measures such as the reform of continuing training, the combination of work and social security, an active senior policy, the possibility of flexible retirement are all instruments to make access to labour both safer and thus better. My question, as the representative Foss is rightly concerned with labour access, is: Will he then support the proposals that I mentioned here, which the Right has rejected on a long number of previous occasions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e296	One of the reasons I'm taking up relationships in Oslo policy is not my own trust, but the fact that we're basically experiencing the strangest thing to think it was municipal elections and big shots at the same time, because the government spends a substantial part of its time traveling around the country and the beach and telling about how bad it is in Oslo policy. They run some sort of unjustified criticism of the sitting city council, based on the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. That's why I think some facts might belong, even though I record that Andersen's representative has not got the numbers completely with him. But it'll come later. I cannot record that we have gone against any of the proposals that Mr Andersen mentioned, rather on the contrary, we have better proposals. Kindergarten prices would have been lower throughout the year if the Workers' Party had voted in favour of increased state aid to kindergartens last year, but they voted against. Now they come with parts of our proposal from last year, as a big innovation. In fact, they're taking from other kindergarten accounts, so there's not five cents in new bets on kindergartens. So they say that the students come out to work one year earlier as a result of the government's proposal. I guess there's no one else but possibly the Council of State who thinks. It's good to think of that idea that you're going to have more opportunities to be a full-time student, but you don't just think about it. In this context, more resources are needed to support the main subject students so that the pace can be maintained, and more resources need to be allocated to the study funding scheme. If this is done in line with the position of the Mjøs Committee and not in line with the big message, we will be strong for it – not as a coercion to become a full-time student, there may be good reasons for the exchange between working life and studies, and I thought it would be unnecessary to remind the Workers' Party of it, but the times have changed. However, those who want to be a full-time student and come to work earlier will have an opportunity to do so. We should not hold back those proposals, rather on the contrary, we would like to make better proposals on that point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e305	It is the creation of value and jobs that provide the basis for developing our welfare society. It is therefore important to provide stable, good and predictable framework conditions for enterprises. In this context, the Christian People's Party has helped to propose a number of business incentives, in particular against enterprises exposed to international competition. In addition, we have also proposed changes to the tax system, reducing the distance between taxes on capital and taxes on labour. We also want to support the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, including: using SND as an important instrument. In this way, risk capital may be made available to those companies. The right has as far as I can remember, at least, never had any particular sense of action that SND represents. It's been part of their policy. But now I think the party is going one more step. On page 26 of the configuration, in the second column at the bottom, you can read the following in the Right Commentary: ‘Seective industrial aid to enterprises and industries should therefore be discontinued in favour of a better framework for all industrial activities.’ The right-hand approach is to bring the Norwegian tax level down to a comparable level with that in the EU. It's okay. However, even in EU countries, selective support for food is maintained, including the following: for maritime industries, e.g. the reimbursement scheme for seafarers and the special fine for shipwreck. But the right now tells them that they want to remove such schemes. Is that how this is to be understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e319	I was very pleased to hear this reply – just hearing the representative Steensnæs fear that the Right will go further in the winding-up of selective business support schemes than the EU, in the fear that we would not be sufficiently compliant with the EU. It's a line with a starting point I like. One can discuss what selective industrial policy is. If we had followed our original proposal for a seafarer's tax more of the old type, direct support schemes would have been avoided. I actually think it would have been a more sustainable development. I think it would have given it what Steensnæs called ‘stable, good and predictable framework conditions’ if we had chosen such a model over a pure subsidy scheme. Now we see that the other Nordic countries are laying down their support schemes, their maritime taxation schemes. We have to stick our finger in the ground. That may not be the right expression in the maritime sector, but I'm going to say anyway that we have to be informed about what other countries are doing in this area. In the case of risk capital, SND: I guess it's not the schemes in the SND that have meant the injection of risk capital that we've voted against. In fact, we have considered that SND should be more closely oriented towards innovation companies, through both grant and support schemes. But they have to be general. I don't think that's a good way to support innovation activities in making it solely dependent on address. I remind you that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have been together with a great majority to set up the so-called START funds. They have been both nationwide and regional, i.e. based in four–five regions in addition to the nationwide scheme. We hope that's a good grant. But let me say it this way: when I travel around and meet businesses, no matter where in the country it is, I feel that these are the framework conditions in general you complain about. There is a lack of good transport and good roads, and not least the unforeseeableness of last year's budgetary settlement, they complain most strongly about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e331	I have now been sitting on the Stortinget for almost four years, and I have participated in the preparation of the state budget for these four years. In particular, I have worked on tax policy, including taxes on cars and car use. During all these years, the Progress Party has proposed a reduction in the one-off charge on passenger cars. We have proposed a reduction in the petrol and diesel tax in addition to the Government's proposal in 2001, on a reduction in the re-registration fee, the annual fee, the weight-yearly fee and the motorcycle tax. Of course, we have done this because we have seen that today's car policy affects everyone. Especially the children's families, who need a slightly larger car. But not only the users of the cars are losers. The environment is a major loser, because the vehicle replacement speed is too low. Therefore, large parts of the Norwegian population are driving around in older cars without a catalyst. I mention this because in the Right Comment on page 40, it says the following: ‘In particular, these members will reduce the overall tax burden on cars.’ As I said at the outset, I have been on the Financial Committee for four years. I have not registered that the Right has proposed to reduce the car charge. They have not reduced the import charge on the car, not the registration fee, not the weight-yearly tax, and have not made proposals to reduce the petrol and diesel tax. They correctly rejected the Government’s proposal for a reduction in these 82-dollar fees. But they didn't follow the proposals of the Advance Party of 3 kroner a gallon, which had the Monnet. Then we get to the annual tax on passenger cars. Here Right chose to follow the proposal of the Progress Party for a reduction of SEK 300 – and that's good! However, in the context of the Right Printer in the setting of the long-term application, this cannot be considered an easy task for the drivers. My question will therefore be: Does the Right 300 kroner a year seem to be a fee for monks? Or does the Right intend to change its charging policy for the drivers in the election year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e343	Since the representative Svendsen mentioned the families of children: Right-wing people think – in all simplicity and without insulting anyone – that reducing the fuel tax, the annual tax, the weight-year tax and what it may be are not the most targeted measures to help families with children! I see that children's families today are a large transport company, not least because of the children's need to get around, when both parents are working, but I think that in relation to helping families with children, we have a budget for the current year that has its strongest features in other areas. The representative asked if what we put in the budget for the current year represents the Right Car Policy. Yes, in the case of a dampening of petrol and diesel taxes, we have said in our programme that it must be quite important to bring these charges down to – I would call it – a Nordic level. That means we have to go down. I think it's important from cross-border business, and I think it's important from some kind of acceptance that the fees, at least in the Nordic region, have to be pretty similar. We have similar welfare states in the Nordic region, and we have an environmental policy that is equal – at least it's bound by the same rules. So we're not that different in the Nordic family. So at least to get these charges down to a Nordic level, it had to be possible to get broad acceptance for. If that's the monks the representative asked for, I guess it's on the stand. We have a somewhat different approach to economic policy than the Progress Party. If you read this, it will appear that the Progress Party believes that money spent in the way of the Progress Party, in the order of tens of billions, does not create inflation. I am not familiar with an up-and-coming economist in Norway who shares that view. But we will come back later in the debate and get references to where this simple recipe is to be found. If it's that simple, maybe more people will do the same thing. But I think this is a strong oversimplification of the economic context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e352	I agree with Per-Kristian Foss that there is a need for government change. After all, the right has contributed greatly to the fact that we have the government that we have today, but I still understand that the Right is eager to take up the government offices. Now I have also understood who Right wants to bring him there. That there are two of the games that Right helped to throw out of the government a year ago, get their test. The fact that the same two parties have chosen other partners will also be tested. But my question to the Right is, what kind of policy does the Right intend to go into government? So the central government decided to go on last year – the gas power case – was so important for all the three parties that were then in government, that we chose to go off on it. I note that in its comments on the long-term programme, the Right concludes that gas power plants will be built in line with the Storting decision. I also record that the right in the same setting writes that these members ‘will work for Norway to become a member of the EU as quickly as possible’. As the setting is written for the next four-year period, I assume that you intend to work actively to achieve the goal of the growing period we enter. I also record that the Right goes to the elections, and in the vote there are strong tax concessions – that has been mentioned quite up to 40 billion kroner. We have also heard that both Kjell Magne Bondevik and Lars Sponheim have taken a great deal of distance from such a policy, most recently in the Political Quarter today. My question to Per-Kristian Foss is therefore – I do not expect the representative Foss to initiate any government discussion or government negotiation from the Parliamentary Chair, but it could at least be interesting to get an answer, as the Right Leader has previously stood firm on his demands for no tax and tax increases: Will this also apply in these – I assume – key questions for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e365	Yeah, at least the Right and Center parties agree on one thing, and that's that we're probably not the parties that best fit together. So that's the way we get to register it, and see if there's anything we can figure out together. So it happens, even though it wasn't for them the representative Enoch now concentrated on. I also think it is interesting, in particular, that discussions are already underway on a possible government programme between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. However, I think it would be a good idea to wait until the voters have said that, for which weight we put in those negotiations, there must be some connection with which heavy voters actually equip the parties. I think the voters will appreciate if we wait until they've said theirs, just like that in all simplicity. In the case of the gas power case, I would say that the energy balance has at least not improved since the last government change. The need for new energy from sources other than Norwegian hydropower has increased recently. The technology for cleaning has improved, so I think there are all possibilities for such a case to be realised. The majority of the population has said their own. Now it is really up to the actors to make a price assessment, and then assess whether/when they want to start a project. Then to the EU question. Let me say it so that I think you can look at it with the utmost security. If it is to be resurrected, it must be assumed that, through a referendum, at least as I see it, the people have stated that they want to apply again – perhaps in the next round to approve a result of the negotiations. At least we can safely say that that question does not determine people through the great choice we are now going to meet. Finally, in the case of taxes, I might encourage the representative, Mr Enoxen, to say that he has been involved in significant tax reliefs – more than he is aware of. In the change of lines with Siv Jensen, Dag Terje Andersen tried to say that the agreement in 1999 did not provide any relief. Yes, it did: relief in alcohol taxes, and a reduction in marginal taxes. That's what Enoxen's been on. That's what I thought was very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e378	This is a bit quiet, but quite interesting debate in front of the next big shot. We note that Andersen brabunks to the Center Party, and we notice Steensnæs" very quiet, friendly and negotiating tone to the Right, and also the otherwise very ramsalte Per-Kristian Foss" kind responses to the Christian People's Party. Yes, even the Center Party got an outstretched hand and a kind reminder of how much right policy they have been involved in. In particular, the change of lines with Steensnæs was far inside the so-called Plan B of the Christian People's Party and negotiations on selective food aid. I would have thought that there might have been some negotiating rounds before you were completely down on selective support. I think we're in an interesting situation in the way that Norwegian policy is polarizing itself. I believe that both the Right and the SV have clear alternatives for the voters and for some of the most important road choices we face in the next four years. I think the voters perceive the big center, the center parties and the Workers' Party as very similar in the political rhetoric. Then it's important to find out: what are the differences in relation to how the centre of gravity comes into Norwegian policy after the next elections? For SV, it is important to be absolutely clear what we think should be done first. We want to renovate the community first – school first, kindergarten rates and the quality of kindergartens first. But the right-hand side of the street says it's tax havens first, and then they dress up a little bit with school. The advertising campaigns that have been held by the Right have promised 19 billion dollars in tax bills. If they are to harmonise with EU standards on taxes and taxes, they have spent DKK 40 billion. Which place in the order of the Right Priorities does the school really come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e387	The answer is in the public sector: first — school in importance. I would also like to add to that concept of research. Research is closely related to our entire education system and is perhaps one of the areas in which we have most recently settled in Norway. And there I would like to come with the extended hand and say that I would like to join SV also I, in an effort to get increased appropriations for the school. I actually remember a election campaign two years ago where the Right and SV were the only parties that dare say that we actually think that the teachers should get higher pay. We were disfellowshiped by all the other parties because it was premature to think about it, and at least then and not that way, etc. etc. Since then it has happened. So it's useful to build alliances, and I like to do it in every direction that can create a majority. There wasn't exactly a government credit in it! But there is therefore a desire on our part to give priority to education. What distinguishes Right and SV is that we actually see the relationship between the economy, business and a competitive sector that can contribute to value creation and a public sector that can simply be paid for by this. Many welfare countries – one does not have to go beyond Sweden – have experienced that if the public sector becomes too difficult, too heavy, and the value creation for the weak, the public sector collapses. Swedish social democrats had to make cuts in the Swedish welfare model that go far beyond what anyone has proposed in Norwegian policy, because it was wrong because there was no balance between value creation and the renewal of the public sector. The public sector became too difficult and too heavy. There is something missing in the perspective. I think sometimes SV have interesting analyses, whether we don't always end up at the same conclusions in politics, but right there I think SV's analysis is too one-eyed, concentrated exclusively on the public sector. Plus one more thing. Today, there's an additional reason to lighten the taxes for most people: we have to get people to stand on more. Actually, there are some things that have a lot of desire and the ability to work a little bit more. Some people might want to go from part-time to full-time, some might want to go a little bit extra on the overtime side. Then it has to pay off. It contributes to more labour and to solving welfare problems in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e400	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e403	In the long-term programme, Regeringen Norway refers to ‘the communities of opportunity’. There is no such thing as a distinction between a character and a character. We have high employment and low unemployment. We have a solid economy and well-developed welfare services. Despite this, things can, of course, be done better. The family is the basic social unit in society. No one can fully replace the family in providing love and care for own children. It is in the first row of parents who are responsible. Then they must be shown trust! This has been a foundation of the Christian People's Party's policy. It will also be in the future. Today's fathers are more busy being with their children. Even if a lot has happened, there is still a long way to go. Therefore, the introduction of a self-contained birth permit, for which the central government was given a pass, is important to encourage more time together. The Christian People's Party believes there's a need to do even more. Our father's quota has been successful. There are four important weeks for children and father. The Christian People's Party will extend the maternity leave and reserve six new weeks for father and child. These six weeks, along with the four already, are time that is important for the contact for the rest of your life. Time, freedom of choice and distribution are important in family policy. Families have different needs. It is also necessary to facilitate different solutions. The central government introduced cash support. The evaluation presented shows that it is important for time, choice and distribution. The cash support evaluation report concludes that the scheme has a smoothing effect. The most important thing is for those who have the least. Almost 2/3 of those receiving cash support are at home with their children. Nearly 1/3 of these say that the cash support has made this option possible. Many thousands work or study less. More than half of these say that the cash support has made the option possible. So it gives us time. But cash support is about more than money. The system is an expression of ideology and social vision – what are important communities and arenas for children and parents, what work in society should be valued higher. There is no room for such a system within the social democratic A4 solutions. But the Labour Party no longer makes the choice for parents. Now it's them. That freedom and trust will be further fought by the Christian People's Party. Option means options to choose from. The freedom of early childhood parents means kindergarten for everyone who wants it. There are still queues in many places. That's why we need more babysitting places. The Bondevik government provided an offensive kindergarten message. We proposed municipal duty to offer places. We proposed a plan to get more places. We proposed measures for lower parental pay. As well as a bunch of pussies are behind this. Therefore, the government will not be slowed down in the implementation of the policy. The central government's nursery report, which is the basis for the policy that is now being pursued, has a broad anchor in Stortinget. It is a strength for the work to achieve the goals. The Christian People's Party has a family policy. We cover the lack of needs of different families. The Christian People's Party will fight for cash support. We want more and cheaper kindergartens. We want to make more time between children and father possible. The Christian People's Party is the family party. A learning society needs a good school. The good school should convey cultural heritage, values and knowledge, but also help the children to mastery, emancipation and social development. The Christian People's Party will facilitate an active and stimulating learning environment in which students are challenged to learn through exploratory self-activities rather than traditional education characterized by more passive and receptive learning. The school offering shall be equivalent for all groups and throughout the country. At the same time, training must be characterised by shortages and local circumstances. The Christian People's Party believes in shortages at school. Private schools are important both as supplements and as corrective to the public school. Hence, the Christian People's Party will protect their parents' rights and fight for private spherelova. The working party voted against private spherelova in its time. It would support private schools like KG, Steiner, Montessori, and other much more uncertain. It would be an offer for those with rich parents. In the future, the Christian People's Party will focus on: Good schoolrooms — when the main weight of construction investment in the care of the elderly is over, efforts must be directed towards the school. Students need to learn to see the relationship between school and work. Increased emphasis on entrepreneurship through student businesses is important. Several professional groups need to be involved in the school, both in order to relieve teachers and in order to provide the school with increased skills. In the long-term programme, the Government writes that one will ‘propose a proposal for an allowance system... that can be implemented if the Kyoto Protocol enters into force’. The Prime Minister has deepened this and has confirmed that the Government will slow down efforts if the United States maintains its resistance to the Kyoto agreement. Climate negotiations are in a critical phase. Then it is necessary for countries that are at the forefront and show initiative. The position of my Christian People's Party that Norway should have. We need to bet on an additional measure and new renewable energy sources, as the centre administration added to the energy message. The Christian People’s Party’s ambition is for Norway to become an international leader in an emerging and renewable energy source. We need to invest in public transport to reduce emissions from the road sector. The Christian People's Party wants to have a resilient commitment to speed up collective provision. The tickets should be cheaper. The supply should be improved. We're in the Year of Volunteership. Voluntary organisations are themselves the foundation of an active cultural life in most communities. The Christian People's Party will support these activities – whether they relate to church and Christian life, cultural life, nature and environmental protection, the health and social sector, sport or the youth and the community. Voluntary organisations are important value and tradition intermediaries, not least for children and young people. Good framework conditions are necessary in order for them to continue to be able to take care of this central role in society. In this and the last period, we are launching major initiatives in the field of the elderly and health. We have given priority to expanding the supply of the oldest in society. We're in the initial phase of the priority of psychiatry. We have plans for cancer care and the purchase of equipment for our hospitals. All of this will not forget the Christian People's Party, but follow up on the next period. The Christian People's Party believes that we are best able to see through to this policy through cooperation with the other parties in the centre, despite what has been said here in the Chamber today. Both over two and a half years in government and over time in opposition, we have shown the ability to make policy impact. The centre's position, with the ability to cooperate both towards the right and the Labour Party, has given good political solutions. Therefore, the Christian People's Party goes to the elections on the center alternative. The working party goes to the selection of what has been their only option since then. Also, it's a minority option. The Workers' Party also proposes to pick up alternating support and sometimes to stick with the Center, second time together with the Right and the Advance Party. In order to make its policy effective, the Government is dependent on the Right and the Advance Party. And they recognize it. According to the logic of the Workers' Party itself, the center option could then ask if a Workers' Party government is a right-dominated government. A minority government is dependent on receiving alternating support. I still believe that the Labour Party is working with the right-hand side in the wrong area: There is cooperation in environmental policy. The 'highly dominated' environmental policy is a cause of concern for children and young people. There is cooperation in agricultural policy. The ‘highly dominated’ agricultural policy is causing regional unrest. It's cooperation on the hospital reform. The ‘highly-dominated’ health policy is a source of concern for patients, its additions and tradesmen. The question that will be asked when the period for this long-term application is over is: Did we use the «opportunities»? The biggest political challenge is to allocate and manage the earth's resources so that those who come after us have something to live on. We cannot leave that job to those who come after us. We have to take it. Unfortunately, today's government did not seize that chance. There is a great need for conversion and innovation in Norwegian business. In an increasingly competitive situation, it is important to give business conditions that enable them to assert themselves in an international market. Unfortunately, the government didn't take that chance either. We have to put the whole country into action. Most of the value creation takes place in the districts — in small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of Norwegian business, and in agriculture, which are important for food security, resource management and district construction. We also need this in the future. Then we must ensure good communication, framework conditions and optimism. Unfortunately, the government did not grasp that opportunity either. Both the long-term programme and the economic policy guidelines will be discussed today. The representative of Sørfonn will come into the monetary policy more thoroughly later, but a few words from me also about it. The Christian People's Party has agreed with the Government that the objective of economic policy must be work for everyone, fair distribution, further development of the Norwegian welfare society and sustainable development. This is important to contribute to stable economic development, so that we get the value creation that we need to sustain our welfare level. In this context, we need to stimulate and facilitate a competitive business. The government has changed the monetary policy guidelines. It is directed towards low and stable inflation. This is just a formalization of the practice we have today. The government has also opened to use some of the oil fund's returns. In the past, the Christian People's Party has been asked to consider whether it is not possible to do this in a targeted and defensive way, so that it does not increase the temperature of the economy. The last in the last time the Government argued against it. Now they've turned around. That's good, but it's important that these money is used properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e494	During the last week, and now here, the representative of Replystad Haugland has given the impression that it was the Bondevik government that took the initiative to increase child care spending. The action that really wants to monna was the Stortinget of the Workers' Party that took the initiative, and fortunately we got several figures for it. It is true that the Stoltenberg government has followed up the bulk of the population with the promise of increasing government promises to secure expansion and reduced parental pay. And of course, we're all happy for the kids. So to this with the renewal of the public sector, as the representative of Svarstad Haugland didn't say anything about it. We are discussing a management policy in this Chamber yesterday. Answered Haugland's party trap Ola T. Lånke did not say a word about putting up competition, even if this was a theme. And the Center Party went even further in defending a strong public sector without a competitive start. For this reason, I am surprised that the center of the setting today says: «A long-term and sustainable balance is necessary in this development in order to maintain an efficient and sufficiently competitive sector.» I would have liked to know what that meant, and in what area the center would put off competition. Competition exposure, especially in areas where one produces and distributes well-being, can create uncertainty about a welfare policy that should cover everyone, regardless of where they live, and how thick the wallet is. At the same time, when, in the setting of economic policy guidelines, the centre says that growth in the public sector should not be higher than the growth in the value creation in mainland Norway, there may be grounds for concern about the provision of welfare. Is it possible, then, for the people to expect an effort on the elderly and health, on kindergartens, on a better school and on everything the representative is talking about, or is this just another example of the Christian People's Party having the door open for government cooperation with the right side?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e508	I get to say as Per-Kristian Foss said in the previous round, that he was pleased with the question. In particular, this is the first part of the question, where a representative from the Labour Party once again goes out and says that it is the Labour Party who is to have the honour of child care policy here in this Chamber. I would like to remind you that the kindergarten message that was handled here before was the Bondevik administration. In the one area where there were proposals for changes, we had a funding scheme where the municipalities had to pay 30 pst., parents 30 pst. and the state 40 pst. It was converted with full support also from the Christian People's Party's group here in the hall, to 20 pst. on parents, 30 pst. on the municipalities and 50 pst. on the State. Transfers from the country must of course be followed up. And the Christian People's Party has given full support to that conversion. There will be something more on the state and something less on the parents, but there was no opposition either from the Christian People's Party's group or from the Government. Now, when the government of Stoltenberg, with a big media review, does what actually a great many people here on the Storting have decided that they should do, I don't think it's anything to shout a lot for. They only implement the policies of the majority. There were also many other measures in the nursery service in addition to the point I pointed out here. The other thing that was changed – unfortunately – was that we wanted to introduce an obligation for municipalities to make agreements with private kindergartens so that they could also reduce the prices for parents. Unfortunately, there was not a large majority in favour, and now we see that the Council of State and the Government have not just continued to reach an agreement between the municipalities and the private nursery owners. Therefore, we still have a large difference in the price level between municipal and private kindergartens. It could have been faster if one had done as the government Bondevik suggested, but it wouldn't be the big crowd. I think we can now put that fight behind us and be a few that there is far more than the working party that wants to bet on kindergartens. The stretched out hand I thought it was time for the Workers' Party to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e525	I'm going to stick to the same theme as the previous replicator, which is a theme that the representative of Svarstad Haugland, to the extent that was not involved in his post, but that is essential, at least for us. The Progress Party considers that in order to achieve a renewal and not least a rationalisation of the public sector, it is important that we have the opportunity to launch public services on a competitive basis. This is the case in the state sector, but perhaps in particular in the municipal sector. And then there's one thing that's absolutely fundamental, that you get rid of the injustice that lies in the fact that the municipalities don't get VAT compensation for all the services they buy. The Christian People's Party has been very vague here. In 1995 in Innst. O. No 25 for 1994-95, they were crystal clear. Since then, on two occasions, they have been extremely vague and have actually voted against the possibility of a general VAT compensation scheme. I quote from the 1995 setting: ‘These members consider that the overriding, fundamental arguments for a level playing field indicate that a general scheme is being implemented. These members would point out that the rules in force operate discriminatoryly and unfairly for those affected, although their scope varies from industry to industry. These members will further indicate that a general scheme also has the advantage of preventing adverse outcomes as the problem develops into new areas.’.» This has now been done, namely by increasing the VAT base and by raising VAT rates. So it's a bigger problem now than it was before. My question should be as specific as possible: Does the Christian People's Party today mean what they meant in 1995, or do they believe what they have shown on a few occasions later, where they have voted against a general system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e541	First to the point of putting out competition, which also the previous replicator asked me about. The Christian People's Party is absolutely competitive, and we think it's one of the tools we can use, especially in the municipal sector. But we're not blue-eyed either when it comes to competitive outsourcing. It is very important that we follow up the actions that are taking place today, in relation to the outsourcing of competition, and draw experience from it. We also have some kind of differentiation between competitive outsourcing in service provision, for example. of pastries and such things, and some technical services. It is much easier to put the technical services at a competitive disadvantage than human treatment, such as: care for the elderly. We have also been in favour of putting it out for competition, but then with strict demands on what to demand from those who are offered. When it relates to the VAT base, which Monsen took up, it was one of the things we took up with the Government in the budget process in the fall. We asked the government to sort this out when VAT cases themselves were to be submitted. One of the things we pulled out was the voluntary sector and putting VAT on services there. The second went into the area that Per Erik Monsen mentioned in his post. We will assess this in the context of the work on the revised budget. To put it this way, the ideal thing would have been to stand for what we stood for in 1995. We have to go deeper into the details of the government's arrangement. We have an agreement with the Workers' Party, and then we'll see what we get. But I agree with what we said in 1995.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e548	This friendly tone that has been between the Christian People's Party and the Right today is interesting. What's perhaps one of the most interesting things about this is that they didn't take a line. In terms of grossness, there is a sign of a relatively large degree of consensus when there is nothing to repeat. That's an interesting signal, especially considering what we're really discussing here. So we are discussing a long-term programme. The Centre has chosen to present something that needs to be considered as a government statement. At least there are 34 pages of text that deal with most points, I think, in Norwegian society, except some important ones. But this so-called government statement is not worth much when from the Right you don't even find the basis to peck a little. What's interesting is what's not in this government statement. This applies in particular to three important points. One is the view of sick pay. The second is the view of state ownership. The center part goes out both times. But what's perhaps the most interesting is that you can't agree on how to set up economic policy in the future. That means that this comment that several people have made in the previous line changer is quite central. The two of these three central parties are involved in saying that the public sector is going to grow less than the private sector. It'll over time mean that the difference between the boys room and the classroom will be larger. It will mean that the poverty we see in public welfare services today will continue, the private consumption will increase even more at the expense of the public. This is a fundamental view of how we want social development. I'm very happy that the Center Party did not find that it could be included in this comment, because that means that the Center Party has a somewhat more nuanced view. If we are to solve the major challenges we face in schools, kindergartens, public transport, we need to have free hands to solve these welfare problems. Here Christian People's Party chooses to join forces with the right to limit the growth of the public sector. So this is a fundamental view of what the future will be like, and my challenge to the representative of the Christian People's Party is what she had to think about this consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e557	First, I want to encourage Øystein Djupedal to listen to what I also say, and not just what everyone else says about what the Christian People's Party wants. It's pretty important when you're going to consider what the Christian People's Party thinks about government cooperation. Deep pedal can be sure that if not the Right took a line on the Christian People's Party, at least the Christian People's Party will take a line on the Right. So the question of the difference of the three center parties. Of course, there are three different parties, and we have something different in some areas. But for a certain period, it seemed that there was a larger deal between the three centers than there was within the Labour Party. We've been showing for two and a half years that we've been able to negotiate even if we've had three different programs to assume. Deep pedal called three areas where we're disagreeable, but I'm sure we'll be able to get some there as well. And then I want to remind Djupedal that it doesn't say that the public sector is growing less. It says there should be a balance. It says ‘over time’, ‘a goal that the growth of the public sector over time should not exceed the growth of the real estate in mainland Norway’. Why are we involved in such a comment? Well, if we're going to have hands to lay the groundwork for the next round we're going to have the opportunity to bet on school, on infrastructure, on health, we need someone to create the values. Today we have it a little bit light. We have a big oil fund, and it's tempting to use it. But if we're thinking about the future, we also have to have free hands for the private sector that can help create values that will back up the welfare community. If you read this comment a little bit more carefully, it says it should be a balance, it should be over time. It's not like we have to make an accounting every year, where the public sector is not going to go up any more than the private sector. But what I also want to mention [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e568	Another important policy area for the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is family policy, and we agree, both parties, that it is important to organise good care for the children, while both parents have the opportunity to participate in the professional life. I stress both, because both Norwegian and international research shows that active policies are needed to achieve both participation. The evaluation of the cash support is available, and it shows the following: Mother is correct with the children more – 1 1⁄2 hours more per person. week – at a cost of NOK 3 billion. And Dad works as much, or maybe more. Cash support has thus become a parent scheme and has led to inequalities between the working lives of fathers and mothers. At the time of the introduction of the cash support scheme – with a three-week consultation period, half of what is now being accused of the Government in the case of hospital reform, despite all six weeks of consultation there – the then Council of State was warned of the problem of gender equality, minority problems, the problems of social clients and the development of kindergarten. And the evaluation is there. Has the Christian People's Party intended to make any kind of changes to the cash support? And why is it that the parental leave allows for coercion on the fathers? Why can't you use coercion in the case of cash support to get fathers to spend more time with their children? I would just like to know the difference between the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e580	Grethe G. Fossum says here, as I've heard from the Labour Party a lot, that parents spend only one and a half hours more with their children. I've tried to say a few times that the way to figure out is pretty special, because a lot of the people who are involved in this calculation have been home all along. So if you're going to have the real growth of time between parents and children, you just have to divide it by those who have changed their behavior and spend less time in the world of work than they did before. And then you're going to have a lot more hours than the second hour and a half. So I agree with Grethe G. Fossum that the fathers haven't exactly impressed, but I actually didn't expect that. There was a warning in the listening rounds that this was not a equality grip. I then said quite clearly that the cash support is not an equalization grip, it is a grip for parents to have more time with their children. We in the Christian People's Party want to point out that we can take other steps to promote equality, and then we want to work to increase the birth rate when it comes to parental leave. I believe that the most important step to improve the balance between who is most at home with their children when they are small is the pay problem. For as long as mother thinks much less than father, mothers will spend more time at home than their fathers. In fact, in families where mother and father have about the same level of education and salary, some studies show that they also spend much more time with their children than with families where there is a great difference between mother and father’s income. The important thing that we will then invite Grethe G. Fossum to is that we can look at gender equality laws and perhaps do better than what the council has proposed to change the gender equality law to now, to get the gender equality debate on the track, because then we will also be able to rely on the allocation of time between children and father to be something better than it is today. I think we're quite a few in the image that Grethe G. Fossum draws. We are not satisfied with the result – neither am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e591	There are many things that could be said about the cash support. What I think is most a pity about it is that you've spent $3 billion per person. to a reform that provides so little constructive results for young people and that that money could have been used much better, e.g. reducing kindergarten prices and ensuring childcare facilities for all children. Now this is an increasingly interesting topic, because one of the issues that the decision to raise is whether to touch on the cash support at all, or reduce it, as the Central Party has decided at its national meeting, or whether to continue just as it is now, with the costs it has in terms of lack of effort for school and kindergarten on the other hand. Now, Valgerd Reply City Haugland says that there are different policies in some areas. But the much-mentioned note in the Inner East. S. No In fact, 229 show a direction towards social development. We can only deal with some of the challenges we're facing. So we have an ageing wave going on in Norway, and now we know that the older reform has been a very much housing reform. We need caregivers who can provide the services for the elderly in the future; it's going to determine the quality. And that means one thing: more hands are needed, more employees are needed. And what is the political choice, is it going to happen in the public sector, or is it going to happen in the private sector? In the same way, you're going to see it when it comes to babysitting. I read the letter that the Center Party had sent to the LO Congress, where the Centre Party pointed out that the relationship between the LO and the Center Party was much larger than between the Labour Party's management and the LO Congress. But there is a new theme here, namely privatisation and outsourcing. How are we going to solve the care problems that lie ahead of us? Is it such that this remark is to be understood that significant parts of absolutely necessary care tasks must be carried out privately, unless the balance is rocked as the Christian People's Party seems to be so extremely important?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e602	One of the things that the evaluation of the cash support shows, and I could actually have hoped for Kristin Halvorsen, is that it is one of the most admirable measures that has been proposed and introduced. Old SV politicians have written a lot of chronicles about it. I thought it was good. If you have the least, you get the most relative, and if you have the most, you get the least. So the smoothing effect has been much better than many of the other measures that can be directed at young children’s parents. When it's about the calculation problem here, that 3 billion dollars is spent on almost nothing, it's pretty straightforward, but I think I'll come back to it a little bit later. I also know that for SV it seems best that we have an image that the Center Party is closer to the Working Party and SV than the Center. That image tried Øystein Djupedal to create in his line to me. That image is now trying to create Kristin Halvorsen, too, and I'm saying that Kristin Halvorsen is trying to create every time she joins a TV debate. We just have to live with that. The Central Party has chosen the Left and Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has chosen the other two centers, and that's our choice. What becomes a little frustrating is when everyone else talks about what everyone else says about us. But listen to yourself to what we say and also read what is in the setting in relation to what we are some about. So we've been showing for two and a half years that we can make a deal, and we've also been pretty much a few things about most of it after we went out of government. When it comes to the remark that you've made a few times in a row exchange, it's important to bet on school, on infrastructure, on health and on all of this. If we're going to be able to afford to do that in the future, it's important that we make it possible for business to create values. That is why we have taken note of this comment. It's balanced, but it shows one direction. It doesn't mean we're going to use pure mathematics every year, but it shows that we also want a business to create a basis for building on the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e611	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e614	There is reason to distance ourselves from the unambitious and pessimistic growth strategy of the Government that appears in the long-term programme. The Stoltenberg government suggests that we should have low economic growth in the coming years. And it follows well in the footsteps of the last Labour Party government, which also provided very low economic growth far into this century. If such a low growth path is realised, Norway will start to be one of the world’s richest countries, measured in gross domestic product per capita. the population, to be held on a jumbo site in OECD context. According to the OECD report on the Norwegian economy, published in February, Norway was the third richest country in the OECD region in 1999. If we do a little experiment and compare the growth in the Norwegian economy with the growth in the Mexican economy, and we start off with a growth in the Mexican economy of 3.5 p.m., Mexico will go past Norway, with the plan in the long-term programme. It's a paradox that the government is setting up a policy where growth in the Norwegian economy is not important. A fiscal policy is needed to facilitate increased economic growth. This means a supply-side policy in the economy that in turn leads to increased growth in gross domestic product. Higher growth means increasing private and increased public consumption opportunities, which in turn will give people a higher level of well-being. And a higher welfare level will be made visible through higher disposable income for households and a much better public service provision. Therefore, it is irresponsible for the Government not to reverse the negative trend we are now in. The government continues to place too much emphasis on the budget balance. It places too much emphasis on how the budget works on demand. And it's too one-sided focus on the demand side, and not least on the framework conditions of the traditional mainland industry. Economic growth is promoted by policies that stimulate people to work, by policies that increase productivity. And we will only do that by facilitating increased investment in the Norwegian economy, so that the available capital and labour are used in a more efficient way. Many studies, many reports, show that there is enormous loss of efficiency in the Norwegian economy due to politically driven waste of resources. In the view of the Progress Party, it is absolutely necessary to adjust the growth rate in the Norwegian economy so that we can achieve a growth rate of at least 2.1 pst. until 2050. So here the government is adding up to an average growth in gross domestic product per person. year on year at a sharp percentage, knowing which gains a higher rate of growth will provide the Norwegian economy – the basis for growth, the basis for wealth, the basis for which most people get a better starting point. The government’s long-term programme also means that in a very short time we will be bypassed by our neighbouring country Sweden. In 1997, Sweden’s gross domestic product was per capita. built-in 76 pst. of Norway. And if Sweden is able to realise a relatively normal growth path in the years to come, then Sweden will go by Norway vigorously in a 20-year period. The Stoltenberg government therefore does not believe that the Norwegian economy can grow further without increasing inflation and thus increasing interest rates. The Progress Party believes that there is a need to focus more on productivity improvements, on increased employment, through both short-term and long-term instruments. It also means, to a greater extent, long-term but good, stable framework conditions for Norwegian business. We're inside a vicious circle, where taxes and charges go up, which forms the basis for stronger wage formation pressures. The vicious circle we can't break unless we do something fundamental with the entire tax system in the country. If that's the case, as far as all the parties seem to agree, that some of the things you fear the most are the wage increases, because it's perhaps the factor that helps most to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian business abroad, why do you continue with the same medicine, which obviously doesn't affect the disease that's assigned? We are in the midst of a profound change in the entire social structure. It's actually as profound as what we went through in the emergence of industrialism. But there is an increasing misunderstanding between the challenges we have and the solutions outlined by the Government. When the Stoltenberg government joined, the main thing for the Government was to renew the public sector. The government repeatedly pointed out, and still does, that conversion is essential for the public sector to provide good welfare solutions in the future. I fully agree that the renewal of the public sector is one of the most important tasks a government can address. Hardly any Western country has the potential to rationalise the public sector as much as Norway. Over the year now, the Government has been sitting, it should have made proposals in a number of areas. It should have put forward proposals to launch large sections of state activities, proposals to wind up county, to simplify public legislation, to sell state property and to review the possibility of rationalising different state and municipal tasks. Instead, we see total casualty and total lack of willingness to realize all the words that the Government has used since it joined. As if not enough, there is now ample opportunity to really take one of the most important steps to show that you want to streamline the public sector, and this can be done through the health reform. When the State assumes responsibility for the state hospitals, the county council is left with almost no tasks. The natural follow-up of this would be to wind up the county as the administrative link. But what does the Government do? So, despite the fact that the government is talking about the need for conversion, efficiency, rationalisation and renewal, the Council of State is going out and is looking for new tasks to add to the same county just because it is going to pass. It does not bear the will of the Government to actually follow up what it has now hammered into our heads all of us in the last year, to renew the public sector. It's a paradox that the areas where we're going to make the most of investing in today are the areas where the government is absolutely least committed to. First, this applies to infrastructure investments. The cost of both business and families will be dramatically reduced as a result of a more efficient infrastructure. Nevertheless, there is an area government at all not bets on. Through the long-term programme, it is very difficult to trace a particularly comprehensive and far-reaching willingness to bring about a strong step forward in infrastructure investment in Norway. Then to the monetary policy. It was said by Dag Terje Andersen in his main post that there was no drama in the market when the government announced the change of monetary policy. It's not very strange either. In spite of the fact that the government later, as if a monetary policy had been pursued to keep the krone price as stable as possible in relation to the euro, the de facto central bank manager has taken up monetary policy a long time ago. All signals and everything the Central Bank has done in terms of steering interest rates and monetary policy have just been based on low and stable inflation. The fact that the government suddenly perceives that there is pronounced policy from the Central Bank, and commits to changing the currency regulation as it does, obviously does not have any dramatic consequences in a market that has long since perceived that this is the way monetary policy is. The main problem with both the long-term programme and other communications from the Government is that one has a government that likes to minimise, but at the same time does what it can to maintain the government power. There will not be any growth, nor will there be any changes that will make most people feel better in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e644	Back to everyday life. It goes down in this country. So saying everyone who wants it is at work. The challenge is to balance the economy so that interest rates do not rise. In this situation, the Progress Party continues to spend money on tax havens as if it were possible to lift the economic weights above. The Progress Party provides tax relief and tax relief in the amount of DKK 40 billion a year, tax relief that primarily benefits those who have a lot from before. At the same time, they collect money, among others. from sick and weak by introducing excesses in order to be ill at least in the order of 3000 to 4000 million. kr per year. I understand that such a policy can be marketable to them that, for example, makes 1 million. kr, which receives NOK 100000 in tax relief from the Advance Party by removing the top tax. But how can Siv Jensen and the Progress Party defend further self-esteem, in relation to what the degradation of school, health and care and increased interest rates will mean, for example. for those I know – a baby’s mother in the cash register at ICA, who makes 200,000 kroner? It's kind of enticing to reduce taxes and things. But for ordinary people, splitting costs, which is a little different through a life, isn't so stupid. In this context, when you go through the calculations of the Progress Party, it's dramatic to see who gets more and who gets less.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e651	First of all, I must say that I do not understand the question from the representative Dalheim. It seemed that the line should have been set to the Right and not to the Advance Party, as it is preferably the Right who is occupied, much more than the Advance Party, to remove the top tax in the tax system. Throughout this four-year period, in most of its tax proposals, the party has been involved with the lower and medium incomes, precisely because it is the safest way to raise those who have the most difficult. When the representative of Dalheim refers to the midwife in the cash register at ICA, perhaps the representative of Dalheim should think about the consequences for her, with her low income, that the Labour Party will have a majority in the Stortinget to increase the electricity charge, which therefore means that she will have less money left because she has to pay more in the electricity bill. It's unsocial. The same baby mother also has problems if she is going to buy a car – if she can afford it at all – to carry her precious children around, with all the suggestions for charging increases that Dalheim and his party are in favour of. The same infant mother has similar major problems each time the Workers' Party increases the percentages in the health care system, each time the Workers' Party increases the percentages for the purchase of medicines on blue prescription. The same infant mother also has problems, perhaps not now, but later, because the Workers' Party creates a majority in the Storting to consistently underregulate the basic amount of the pension. And if Erik Dalheim thinks that there's a social policy that helps balance the differences between those who have a lot and those who have a little, then I wonder where this is going to end. Because it is precisely this policy that the Workers' Party has represented throughout the post-war period, which has led to increased disparities and which has led to people struggling to meet ends, and that is why there is also a basis for a total policy shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e658	For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a society that is characterized by closeness, among other things. between audiences and decision makers. We believe that it creates security, interest and co-responsibility and is evolving for genuine democratic processes. There are many examples of well-intentioned coordination measures and rationalisation processes in both the public and private sectors still having large red tape and a greater distance between different parties. Here, there are very strong mechanisms that work, and without active countermeasures, the effect of rationalization can very easily disappear and become the opposite. The progress party says a good deal about savings as a result of a possible liquidation and transfer of tasks from the county. But I can't find any discussion of how they're going to prevent what I'm just saying. And then my question becomes: What kind of grip does the Progress Party intend to use, so that even once these strong mechanisms won't have free play space, if the Progress Party's goal of winding up the county council was to be achieved? Furthermore, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that an active district policy is necessary in order to safeguard growth and development, to ensure shortages and to further develop the necessary interdependence between the city and the district. That's why I tried with interest to find out what the Progress Party meant about its district policy, but it was a little difficult. Because under the chapter on this theme in the long-term application setting, the Progress Party refers to review in the fractional comment, but when I looked after it, I found nothing. So my question is: when it concerns the district policy of the Progress Party, is it left to the forces to play their free game, or does the Progress Party have a district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e669	First of all, to wind up the county. I don't understand that it would lead to less bureaucracy if we maintained the county council, because it's obviously the Christian People's Party put up with it. What happens, on the other hand, is if we remove an administrative link that does not contribute to anything but to be a significant cost to the Norwegian society as a whole, is that we can transfer some tasks to the municipalities, other tasks to the state. It has two advantages. One major advantage is that we strengthen the autonomy of the municipalities, strengthen the direct contact of the municipalities with the inhabitants and strengthen the right of the municipalities to decide more tasks on behalf of the inhabitants of the municipalities. That should also be agreed by the Christian People's Party. The second advantage of transferring part of the tasks currently assigned to the county council to the State is that citizens throughout the country have access to the same services, the same offer, irrespective of where they live. It should also agree with the Christian People's Party, especially considering the next question that was raised, about an active district policy. I believe that the Progress Party is pursuing a very active district policy by facilitating people to live throughout the country. But that means creating infrastructure that makes it possible to live, allowing businesses that create values around the districts to retain more of their value creation so that they can strengthen their growth potential, strengthen jobs, create more jobs, and once again increase the value creation of Norwegian society overall. It is therefore not the case that active rural policies alone are falling into agricultural policy solutions. It's about letting people decide more about their own everyday life. It's about believing that people actually live where they want to live. But then we will contribute through policy solutions, through infrastructure, through taxes and taxes and through strong businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e676	First, I have to say that I am a little surprised that the representative Siv Jensen brought Right into the line change with Erik Dalheim, where he raised the question of the social profile of the tax promises of the Progress Party. In the recently adopted Grand Prix electoral programme of the Progress Party, flat tax has been adopted. Right stands for flat tax. My question to Siv Jensen is, how can you avoid that those who pay the most tax also get the biggest tax relief in a flat tax system? The progress party has put itself on the sideline during the treatment of the long-term programme by bringing together everything they think, at the back, so that no one else can join it. In the past, it has been a matter of — and, at least, tried — having a majority. Obviously you're no longer. I have studied the views of the Progress Party, and I must admit that I am a little confused. The Progress Party has a section at the back of the ‘lefsa’, which they call ‘Financial policy — Education by industry’. Here's what it says: «Public activities must be required to strike a balance between expenditure and revenue.» Furthermore, it says that the government’s share of gross domestic product will be ‘reduced’. Does that mean that the Advance Party no longer wants to use oil money? Because if the government's share of GDP is to be reduced, taxes and levies cannot be reduced without using oil money. Or does that mean that the Progress Party takes oil revenues into account among public revenues, and thus believes that the public expenditure can be equal to the oil revenue and tax revenue combined? If so, how will it relate to the Progress Party's objective of reducing the public sector? I'm excited to hear that. Or is it that the Progress Party will have both a larger and a smaller public sector – at once? Is it perhaps that the Advance Party will and will not use more oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e688	There were a lot of questions. I'll try to reach through all of them. First, the question of flat tax. Børge Brende should probably read our recently adopted programme better, because it does not – and the Progress Party has not adopted – say that we want flat tax. On the other hand, we have raised the issue of flat tax. The reason is that we want a system of significant deductions, precisely to secure them with lower and medium incomes. However, it is clear that there will be many demarcation problems in the conversion of the tax system. The most important reason for changing the tax system is that it should work more effectively: we're going to direct the heads where they're going to give the most, and at the same time make sure that it has a certain redistribution effect. It's necessary. So to the small siding that we seem to have put ourselves on the sideline by gathering all of our notes at the back. I would like to remind the representative Burne that this was not a proposal by the Progress Party in the treatment of the long-term programme. It was the centre parties that would not have the support of any parties to their comments, regardless of whether they could have a majority for them or not, and it torpedoed to the extent possible in the treatment of the long-term programme to create a variable majority for different positions. I have registered that all the parties have followed it up. That's why I'm wondering something about the sharp criticism of that particular area. So the government's share of gross domestic product. The Progress Party is committed to reducing the public sector over time, in particular in order to contribute to a more efficient use of resources. But that does not mean that the State and the public sector as such should not have the primary responsibility for the areas defined by the Progress Party as core tasks, i.e. the tasks that cause us to charge taxes and taxes — e.g.: construction of roads, a good and equal school offering throughout the country, health services that are credible and that do not give us cows, etc. – because we want a common funding platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e699	The Progress Party has provided a comprehensive comment on the long-term programme. Norway’s relationship with the EU has not been assessed, with an exception: support for Norway’s active participation in the ‘European Union’s work in the noise field. Maybe it has to do with Carl I. Hagen doesn't want any noise on this question in the next period. He has said that he believes that it is not necessary to raise the issue of Norwegian EU membership during the forthcoming enlargement period. However, the party’s representatives will now have to decide on a constitutional proposal from the Right, the aim of which is to facilitate Norway’s entry into the EU. My first question is: will Siv Jensen support such a proposal? My next question goes directly to the opening of the Progress Party's comment. This is where the party proposes to celebrate the market economy and international free trade, while saying clearly that special measures for the production of our own country should be removed. So the party of progress is going a long way away from the correction of the market forces that many think are absolutely necessary to take care of the rule of people, the environment and the distribution. Does this production, which very much reminds us of the basic attitudes of the EU, mean that the Progress Party really believes that Norway should be a member of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e706	I experience that the representative Meltveit Kleppa combines two rather central aspects. One question she raises concerns the view of the Progress Party on any Norwegian membership of the EU, and the Progress Party has made a clear choice, not least because, through the last referendum, we had a clear no-majority in Norway. We have respect for that, not least because we want binding referendums on such key issues – that they should be decided by the people and not by this Chamber. That means that we need to respect what this population actually expresses, over a little longer than what you're putting up with by raising a new EU debate. We know how much the EU debate divides the Norwegian people. We know that it divides families, and we know that it divides people in the workplace. So we have not at any time wanted to raise a new EU debate. That's why I'm a little surprised that that question comes to the Progress Party. After all, the Progress Party has been almost clearer than the Centre Party in respecting the public opinion and view of a Norwegian EU membership. So to the second question: The fact that the Progress Party is working for increased free trade and a well-functioning market economy system means that we want to create conditions for Norwegian companies to be competitive even in relation to European companies. This means that we need to pursue an economic policy – a tax policy – that is not so completely different from an EU average that it itself creates a competitive disadvantage for our own businesses. It does not mean wanting to become a member, but it means taking over the consequences of what is happening internationally, what is happening from country to country, and which affects the competitiveness between countries. What affects the ability of companies to survive in the fight is what kind of policies we conduct in this room. Therefore, Meltveit Kleppa should also be more concerned with lower taxes and taxes, so that our companies can survive over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e713	I noticed that the horror picture for the development of the Norwegian economy was that in 30 or 50 years we would have lower wealth than Mexico. I just want to say that if Mexico can really get up to our level in 30-50 years, I think it's absolutely excellent for Mexico, but also for us. What got me to take the floor, which made me turn on when I read it, was a long comment from the Progress Party on page 141 in the vote on the concern that Norwegian workers' organisations have too much power, and that they are pushing the salaries without there being any basis for it. They write the following about this problem: «This problem considers that the Progress Party must be gradually resolved by changing the laws governing the labour market so that wages are more determined individually.» In European history, we know a few examples of the state having gone in and said that workers and employers should not be allowed to organise themselves freely. We know these examples from Germany and Italy from the interwar and war times, and we know them from Eastern Europe, where there was no freedom of organisation either. So the Progress Party must have a completely fundamental misrepresentation of how the labour market actually is, or they have a fundamental undemocratic view of how to get organized. This is because workers are allowed to organise themselves — if you want to. You have the right to associate with organisations — if you want. You can enter into collective agreements with your counterpart – if you want. So if you don't want to, you have a freedom to do that. This is not a matter regulated by Stortinget. But to say that they want these laws, these agreements that workers and employers actually make, to be banned, we know only from Mussolini's Italy, from Hitler's Germany and from Stalin's Russia. That means that there may be a manifest misunderstanding, or then the representative Jensen must clarify to me: is she really serious about the fact that the Stortinget is going to intervene in the parties' free negotiating and organisational rights, or is this to be understood as an incursion? I hope for Jensen's part that this is the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e727	I think that the representative Djupedal has chosen to read the comments of the Progress Party that a certain man reads a certain book. It is not that we want to prevent the right to free organisation in Norway. It's always been a follower of it, and we're always going to be a follower of it. Nor will we prohibit agreements concluded between social partners. What we have pointed out, on the other hand, is some of the effects of central wage-setting, i.e. central wage formation in Norway, which has gone over time, and which actually leads to the keeping down of large groups of employees in Norway. In addition, it must also be possible to look at the laws laid down by this Chamber which actively contribute to the regulation of the labour market. This applies, inter alia, to: overtime provisions, and in particular: how we regulate temporary employment services. There, this increase has repeatedly retained the possibilities of legislative changes that would mean a more flexible labour market, and legislation that is more in line with what people want. We see a development in the labour market now that more and more people want more flexibility, more opportunities to work elsewhere than the traditional 8-16 system. All regulation in Norway is linked to it. This means that we need to take the demands for increased flexibility seriously, in fact legislation must also become more flexible, more adapted to the needs and requirements that are more and more pervasive among most workers in Norway. In fact, it is no longer the case that the views of the LO in any context are representative of the regular worker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e737	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e740	Let me start by saying that I agree with the committee leader that we have a good starting point for the further development of the welfare community. We live in one of the richest countries in the world. We have a high level of employment, and we still have a relatively good distribution between different districts in the country and between the inhabitants. This is partly due, of course, to the rich natural resources that have created the basis for employment and economic growth — the soil, the forest, the fish, the rich mineral resources, the hydropower and, above all, oil and gas. However, it is also largely due to predictive and wise politicians, who have adopted the concession laws to preserve ownership of hydropower, who have managed oil and gas in a way that has created employment and high value creation in the country, who have maintained long-term management of fishing resources, and who have also contributed over time to a fair distribution and a strong public sector that will give all the same right to education, healthcare and care, and not least to a policy of using the whole country. However, in a number of areas we can now see that part of this picture cracks, and that we are on our way into a new era. What challenges do we now face at the beginning of a new century? I'll limit myself to pointing at someone. One of the basic challenges is, of course, to take care of what we have built up, build on the values and governance mechanisms that have made Norway a good country to live in, that we have managed to ring the ring of ownership of natural resources, that we have managed to achieve a fair distribution. Here lies one of the major challenges, for we see that at a time of increased globalisation and increased pressure on these governance mechanisms it cracks, and more and more falls outside. We are also facing major challenges in relation to the environment, and especially in climate policy. We are facing challenges in order to ensure that oil wealth also benefits future generations, and not least, as I say, ensuring the right to dispose of natural resources. The government has presented proposals for guidelines on the use of oil revenues and has produced them through the media as a rule for increased use of oil money. Now the finance minister opens the wallet, you could read in the newspapers when the proposal came. That joy was short-lived. Last year's budget had a bid that no more could be used without destroying the Norwegian economy. The revised national budget, which was presented last Friday, says the same thing. However, in six months' time, on 1 January 2002, it shall be possible to use more money under the rules now presented by the Government. Believe it or not! Of course, it is the cyclical situation and the capacity of the economy that will be crucial for whether the Government is spending more money. It's a paradox for many, and it's hard to understand that at a time when the country's swimming over with money, you see in the day-to-day world that things don't go by, and that the money doesn't go by to solve completely obvious problems. In the news on TV last night we could see a building that had now actually been isolated for several weeks, and which had the prospect of remaining isolated for several weeks, because the road was not executable. It would cost $100,000 to repair the road. The state lacked money, was the answer, and couldn't do it. The same is true of the E10 between Narvik and Bjerkvik, the main year in the north to Sweden. There is a weekly cycle that closes the road and poses a danger to life and health. The state has no money. I'm actually going to believe that when we see at the same time that there are more than 3,000 job vacancies only in the civil engineering sector, the cost of unemployment benefits only in Northern Ireland will be higher than the cost of cleaning up the challenges we see here. One of the challenges we face in relation to the use of the oil fund is to actively access and use oil money in areas where there is no capacity in the economy, to use oil money for investment in knowledge, in research, and not least in enterprises that are forward-looking, that will be profitable and provide jobs and revenues in the future. We don't have to lock ourselves in isolation just to a rule of using the real return, but we have to go active and use the oil fund in areas where there's room for it. It is widely agreed that the marine sector, oil and gas, the maritime sector and the IT industry will be the main industries for Norway in the future. These are industries where most of the jobs will come in District Norway. There is therefore a need for a strong change in rural policy in order to ensure that we also use the whole country in the future, and that we take out the value creation potential that exists in these industries. There is no law of nature that governs businesses and people against central struts. Behind the strong centralisation that we have seen lies the political decision. It is possible to slow down centralisation; it is also possible to reverse the flow of movements, if there is political will to do so. Unfortunately, it has been so far difficult to establish such a political will. 50 pst. by all who were asked in a housing selection survey conducted by the central government, they replied that they would like to be able to settle in District Norway. Work was the main prerequisite for implementing it and for making such a choice. It is therefore an important political task to ensure that we give people the opportunity to live in all parts of the country. A report that I received while I was a local and regional minister shows how the state has used its investments to strengthen the pressure in the Oslo region, and thus also helped to increase centralisation. The report showed that in 1998 Oslo and Akershus received a total of 55 pst. of the State investment. The other counties received in 1998 a share of the total investment of less than 5 pst. - All the counties. Developments have gone in that direction throughout the last decade, a larger and larger share of Oslo and Akershus, which have increased its share of investment from 20 p.m. So in 1989 to 55 pst. 10 years later. This is a development with which something needs to be done. It is not only due to the Gardermoen and the Rikshospitalet, it is also due to the centralisation of investment in a number of other areas, partly related to demographic change and partly related to political choices. It is therefore also necessary to have an active policy in relation to the relocation of State jobs. I am pleased that the Labour Party government has followed up the central government's initiative, namely to introduce a rule that all new state jobs should be located outside Oslo, and that the report presented by the Ministry of Labour and Administration on decentralisation through ICT has also been taken into account, stating that 1 000–1,500 jobs can easily be moved out of Oslo and be involved in creating a basis for employment and decentralisation. This means that jobs can be moved out of the labour market relatively easily and quickly — and with a high economic gain — and also contribute to the wider provision of labour in all parts of the country. However, if we are to be able to facilitate people to live where they want to live in the country and stimulate knowledge-intensive jobs in the districts, we must also counter the digital difference Norway that government policies will lead to. If we are to create growth and development, the digital rights of all people must be realised – everyone in the country must have access to broadband. Large parts of District Norway are far behind in the development of such a necessary offer. The government's development schedule already seems to be running. There are also large price differences between the centre and the periphery of connection and use of high-speed networks. It is unacceptable that companies and schools in District Norway should pay a higher price to use new technologies than what they do in central areas. One result of the lack of infrastructure is that enterprises simply do not take the chance to establish themselves in smaller places. A look-up in Today's Business, based on a survey by the consulting company Building Strategy, shows, for example: that the IT companies concentrate their investments on Oslo. Outside Oslo, the investments of the IT companies are largely absent, despite the fact that we could actually have seen the opposite development if we had pursued an active policy for such a development, and not just let the market decide where to start. The government’s agricultural policy is also – with the support of the Stortinget – tearing away the basis for food production in parts of the country. We now see that we have a strong downturn, an accelerating decline in use. In the last ten years, eight farms have been closed down every day. This is now being reinforced, and we see that the Government unfortunately has a large number of people working for a more EU-like agriculture. It is a development that goes its way, despite the fact that we have seen the consequences of such an agricultural policy in the last six months. We want safe food, the Norwegian people want safe and clean food, not industrialised agriculture based on ever larger units, as the government's and the majority of the population's policies will lead to. Both in the European Communication and in the long-term programme, the Government has underlined that Norway must have freedom of action in relation to its relations with the EU and that Norway must at all times assess whether the EEA Agreement and other cooperation arrangements are appropriate as a tool for the maintenance of basic Norwegian interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated on several occasions that it cannot be ruled out that a new application for Norwegian EU membership can be sent during the next major period. On this basis and on the basis of what has been said here today, it can be concluded that we have a large majority who will continue to work for EU membership and that it will be most relevant to promote an application during the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e785	I think that the representative Odd Roger Enoxen and I can agree that it is important that we develop our systems in the public sector in terms of changes and new reforms, especially in terms of how they work in relation to the districts and how they work in relation to the smaller municipalities in Norway. That is why I have long been amazed at a position from the Centre Party, which I also raised with Anne Enger Lahnstein in yesterday's renewal debate, namely the question of extending the VAT compensation for municipalities. Now it's the way to get a new reform going from July 1st. This reform implies that a number of services, not least for small municipalities in Norway, have to purchase from private individuals, are subject to VAT. A number of large municipalities can afford to hold their own municipal attorney, they can afford to hire people to solve these problems, they buy less of services, but they produce more themselves. The small municipalities — and that is an important part of their activity — often demand this locally, and do so in a way that makes local business more robust. But they're going to add up to 24 pst, which is going to make the municipalities feel worse because you have to pay 24 pst. more for the necessary services to determine something and e.g. must use legal assistance to investigate property taxes around the country. There aren't a few dollars that have gone by, and such services will be covered by 24 pst. more tax from 1 July. But there are a number of small activities here that can go doll because the public will gradually have problems asking for them locally at as high a cost as we will now get, or we have to choose to hire people ourselves to solve these problems. It will undermine local business. My question to Enoxsen is: Will the Senterpartiet still not be involved in introducing a general VAT compensation for the benefit of both districts and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e794	I would first be allowed to say that I would have seen it as very positive if the Right could have shown the same care for the small municipalities also in other contexts, for example. when discussing the income system, where the Right has been one of the most intense drivers in order to bring the income system into line for the benefit of larger municipalities and growth municipalities at the expense of the smallest municipalities and municipalities with a decline in the population. But now leave it in this round. I agree with the representative, Solberg, that it is actually necessary to look at the type of arrangements that the representative points to. There was also a background for the Centre Parties – unlike the Right who chose to sit on the sideline in the treatment of the entire VAT reform in the autumn – to agree with the Workers' Party that the effects of the introduction of VAT in new service areas should be assessed in relation to distortions of competition between different sectors. We then thought of distortions of competition between large and small banks, where the large banks would like to employ IT consultants themselves, while small banks would buy these services and thus also get a cost through VAT that the large banks would not get, just as the representative Solberg correctly points out, that small municipalities often do not employ – and should not employ – IT consultants, lawyers, etc., which are less needed, and where the municipality's purchase of this type of service is a basis for having companies in the small municipalities as well. I see that the assessments have not been made in the submission submitted by the Government to the Storting, and we will of course come back to it and discuss a further follow-up to it in the context of the review of the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e801	Let me first say that there was a lot of what the representative, Mr Enoxen, said, in which I agree – there was a very good social-democratic policy in it. Many people say that they don't see any difference between the parts in Norway, and that makes it unclear and is part of the reasons for the migration between the parts. But when we look at the setting of the long-term programme, at the budgetary procedure and to the extent of the general political debate, I think that at least when it comes to directions, there is a clear distinction between the right and the left in Norwegian policy. In many ways, we face a choice of values, the choice between further developing and passing on the Nordic welfare goods and what might be called the American model, some of which have to buy their own well-being to a greater extent. The Enoch was very concerned with a strong public sector and a fair distribution, and I would like to think that he clarified where they stand in this image where we have a stronger polarization between a right and left side of Norwegian policy. We record to the degrees that both the Christian People's Party and the Left are now more oriented towards the Right, even if they operate with it as a B option. I would point out to the representative, Mr Enoksen, that it is clear in the long-term programme that we in the Labour Party are concerned that the distribution also applies geographically. We are committed to better communication across the whole country to strengthen the local economy, focus on regional high-pitched areas, regional health services, regional development environment and regional centres for using the whole country, just as Enoxen pointed out. These are measures the Labour Party will put in place just to ensure construction, activity and well-being across the country. I hope that Enoch is united in what is the Government's long-term program in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e812	In fact, I fundamentally disagree with the representative Rudihagen that the Christian People's Party and the Left are oriented towards the Right. On the contrary, both parties have confirmed through their national meeting decisions that they are standing at the centre. They have done this in contrast to what they decided four years ago, and thus they have come to the Central Party in view of the fact that there is an independent third focus in Norwegian policy, for which we have argued for decades. We have also shown, through government participation in teams for two and a half years, that this is the case and now also again in the design of joint comments on the long-term programme, which shows what these parties stand for in common. Of course, it's true that we have a lot of common thoughts about the Workers' Party in a number of areas. This is not least the case in the distribution policy and in the view of the public sector and in the construction of the welfare society, just as in other areas we have common sense with the Right. But then, unfortunately, in some of the key areas of Norwegian policy, we see that the Workers' Party and the Right are in a position to develop in a completely wrong direction. It's enough to mention gas power and environmental policy, where they mainly find each other. They find each other not only in individual questions but in a number of other areas. We can mention agricultural policy, where the Labour Party has almost a blank right from the Right in this room to do anything. We see here that we are now moving towards a more EU-like agriculture, with a strong reduction in consumption and with a trend in the industry where professionals will gradually not have a income to live on. We see this in the view of EU membership, where these two parties, both of them, aim to have Norway as an EU member and are in favour of EU adaptation every single day. We see it in the hospital reform, where state acquisition of hospitals is now carried out with the support of the right parties. And we see it in relation to the coercion of municipalities, where the right at the national meeting now changed its position and thus meets the Labour Party in the view that it should be possible to decide on the coercion of municipalities. These are important areas where the Workers' Party and the Right stand together against the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e819	In its comments on page 103 on regional and regional policy, the central parties wrote: «Good services, reduced distance costs, interesting jobs and competitive business are important.» There is no doubt that these are good and important words. That's exactly what they are, words that the Center Party is an expert on using in party speeches and on nice occasions. However, if these words are to be translated into action, there must be decisions at the back, either in the form of legislative proposals that make it easier for the population and business in the districts, for example. that municipalities are able to decide for themselves whether companies wishing to invest in snowmobiles as part of the development of the tourism industry should be able to do so, or in the form of proposals for better depreciation rules, increases in the appropriations for road construction or decisions on tax havens that reduce distance costs. When the centre party was in government position, they suggested nothing of what they say they should do. And the movement flow from District Norway was as great as ever. The NHO has established that transport costs in Norway are 50 pst. higher than in the EU. When the Senterparteen was in government, the distance cost increased by the increase in diesel and petrol prices. The increased costs of road transport by reducing real road construction appropriations. The state of the road capital was dramatically worsened during the government of the centre party, and thus the cost of District Norway in relation to the central strike. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed in the budgets to reduce the distance costs by reducing fuel taxes, by increasing the appropriations for road construction and by reducing the level of taxation and taxation for businesses. The centre party has consistently gone counter-clockwise, has increased the level of taxation and reduced the appropriations for road construction. The result was striking when the Center Party put in government: people moved like never before from District Norway. How much proof does the Center Party need that their district policy medicine is wrong? Is it now necessary to depopulate the entire District Norway before the Center Party changes medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e833	I don't know where Kenneth Svendsen has his information from, but at least to make it easy for the representative Svendsen, I can take statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau and come to his office, so that he can see for himself that the decline in the population of District Norway, in fact for all parts of the country, was reduced in that period of the Central Party put in government. There was a rather strong drop in the deportation of some parts of District Norway. In fact, unlike the Progress Party, which wants to use state funds to build motorways between the Swedish border and Gothenburg to facilitate transport in other countries, the Centre Party has tried to give priority to both county roads and infrastructure in the district of Norway in all budgetary processes. We have also said in the joint comment that I brought up on the pulpit instead, that we want to legislate on municipal autonomy and move strongly towards local self-government. We would like to see this done, among other things: to do so by maintaining the county and giving the county greater power to ensure regional development. This is the very opposite of what the Progress Party wants. They will have more state, more market and a development that will unilaterally be at the expense of District Norway. In fact, this also applies in an area that the representative Svendsen raised, where it is established that they want more local influence in relation to the use of snowmobiles. Of course, it is true that Norway has higher transport costs than the EU average — sometimes much higher. Kenneth Svendsen comes from the same part of the country as me and should have registered something for the reason that it is. It is not possible in a country like Norway, with the spread of residence and such distances, to reduce the same transport costs as in other EU countries. In fact, for a few years I have had as much as 150 days of travel in the Netherlands, a country you can drive across in three hours, and there are 16 million people living there. It goes without saying that transport costs in such countries are different from what we do in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e842	In many ways it's been a very interesting political spring considering the development of the Center Party over these months, because now it's probably just the Center Party that rhetorically still talks about center as an alternative, while at the same time the Center Party is the party that most actively seeks support elsewhere than in the centre. I think that's interesting in itself, because the Central Party obviously has more political relations with parties other than those you're supposed to go to elections with. In the document we are discussing today, this is visible in several places. I tried instead to challenge the representative Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on why the Christian People's Party did as they did, without me becoming particularly wise of that answer. That is why I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Enoxen, as follows: fortunately, the centre party has not joined a note with the Christian People's Party and the right-hand side that makes it clear that the growth of public consumption must always be lower than the growth of private consumption, that this contrast between private consumption and public consumption is going to continue to disfavor public consumption, which will mean that the contrasts of our society will increase. This will mean that public welfare services over time will not be able to measure the needs and requirements of the population legitimately in terms of welfare services. I am very happy that the Center Party here is not included, along with the SV and the Workers' Party. And I could imagine getting the Center Party's reason why you think this remark was so uncomfortable that you chose to stand outside, because that's obviously a political reason for it. What is also interesting in setting up the long-term programme is that, at important points of structural policy, the Centre chooses to ally with SV. We also appreciate that. In terms of state ownership, not least, and in terms of European policy, the SV and the Centre have much in common. I think it is in many ways this community with regard to structural policy that makes us very comfortable to agree with the Centre Party on many issues. I don't think the Center Party is as comfortable with being in company with the other two center parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e851	Firstly, I have to be allowed to say that SV extends the differences in that remark a little longer than what I honestly believe is the basis for doing. When the Center Party chose not to be on the note that Djupedal has repeatedly referred to, it has two things in common. One is that I see no need to lock us in relation to the proportion of the public sector in relation to the private sector. At a time of high oil revenues and opportunities through these oil revenues to have a slightly larger public sector than most other countries can allow to grant and thus implement reforms and measures implemented in public as other countries cannot do, so I do not need to be locked up in relation to such a policy. Secondly, if it is possible to achieve the objectives we have of strengthening care for the elderly, the health sector and, in particular, the education sector, the public sector will have to grow in the years to come. I think everyone has to admit that. At the same time, of course, there must be a balance over time between developments in the public and private sectors. It is one of the areas where the Senterpartet and SV separate quite emphatically, in my opinion, because SV does not sufficiently recognise that values cannot only be consumed and distributed, they must also be created. We need a private business. Despite the large oil revenues, over time we must have a private business that provides the basis for the well-being that we all depend on and that we all want. So there has to be a certain balance. But I think it was unnecessary to lock ourselves in such a formulation as the other parties here have chosen, and we therefore went out of that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e859	I only want to follow up on the answer that the representative Enoch gave me. Then he tried pretty febrile – in my opinion – to keep the center option as a kind of union. But the previous line between Enoxen and the SV representative shows that there is a fundamental difference between the Center Party on one side and the other two Center Parties on the other side when it relates to the bet on the public sector in relation to the value creation, or else. But it's a little strange to right that the Christian People's Party is now doing everything they can to explain this comment, and now the Center Party is actually doing the same thing. They say they won't lock themselves in. But the Christian People's Party has repeatedly said that this remark cannot be read so that one locks anything. You need a lot of flexibility here. What the other Enoch did was try to stick the Labour Party on the Right in agricultural policy. In fact, there is no more than one year since we were dealing with an agricultural message presented by the Bondevik government, where the Labour Party and the Centre were hoping for what would be agricultural policy in the future. And there were some important elements here, including: that we should maintain a small-scale agriculture throughout the country. But at the same time, one saw that fewer and fewer people live on agriculture, and therefore one should try to strengthen those who have a resource base well enough for the farmer to take out all or part of the income there. It is precisely what is now in the supply that the Minister of Agriculture has made and that was the basis for the agricultural settlement last year. Moreover, we were united in trying to strengthen the incomes of the agricultural sector itself, simply to stimulate a new value creation. Is it not no longer the Central Party that we were jointly involved in agricultural policy last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e868	The centre party stands at every word we agreed on in connection with the adjustment last year, and I should actually wish the Workers' Party had done the same thing. I don't think the professionals in the agricultural industry feel like they're stuck with the formulations they chose last year. I do not believe that those professionals in the agricultural industry who are currently negotiating with the State feel that the Workers' Party intends to give farmers incomes to live off in line with other groups. It would probably be sufficient to re-use the representative Gabrielsen as a witness of truth in relation to the fact that it took no more than one month after the suspension of the agricultural notification had been dealt with in the Stortinget, before the Workers' Party emphatically left the agreement we agreed on in connection with the presentation of the agricultural settlement last spring. It's actually not that I've somehow made a febrile attempt to stand at the center. We are three different parties that in some areas have different positions. And we're going to have that in the future. But in fact, we have shown that despite the fact that we have different views in some areas – and partly in areas that are difficult for these three parties – we have managed to cooperate with each other in government in a way that, during that period, strengthened the relationship between the three parties. The Working Party has yet to experience. When I hear the representatives of the Labour Party describe the difference between the three parties here, as if it were making cooperation impossible, I have to say that then I ask myself the question: has the Workers' Party ever meant it seriously when you have called for a majority government in conjunction with other parties? And in that case, has it been understood that there will be parties that have different views in some areas, and that such cooperation does not mean merger between several parties or submission of the smallest parties in relation to the largest? It is precisely what cooperation involves: understanding each other's peculiarities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e877	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e880	Let me first say that I think there was an extraordinary amount of wisdom in what the leader of the Center Party now had to say to explain the differences in this remark. At my discretion, it is the definition that the Center Party now gives – that you don't want to lock yourself in an understanding of economic development – that is the only understandable way to understand this remark. That is why, of course, the case rapporteur from the Right has submitted this comment, because if it were to be the case that there was no policy in it, it should of course never have been there. The next four years will be quite crucial for what society we can create in Norway. Norway is a rich country — on resources, on money and not least on people. Norway is, as someone likes to say, the society of opportunity. But unfortunately, during this great period, we have not taken advantage of the possibilities we have. Norwegian policies are driven from day to day – without long-term or predictability either for business or for the country’s inhabitants. We have greatly abused the unique possibilities this rich country has. We've abused the ability to create the world's best school, we've abused the possibility of being a precursor country – as we were – in environmental policy, we've abused the ability to show freedom of action outside the EU, we've abused the ability to create better child care, we've abused the ability to invest in higher education and research, and not least we've abused the ability to start the conversion from the black oil economy, where we are today, to the green knowledge economy. This period has to a large extent been marked by games – games about who will cooperate with who, with a continuously changing majority in the Stortinget, so that the ordinary citizen has not had the opportunity to know who is actually behind the decisions taken by the Stortinget. This is also reflected in policy. It is not a political decision that has a durability date, but during this period they are not even date stamped. For political journalists, this has probably been a nice four-year period, but for the country there has been no good situation. Doing the most important first is a good delivery gel for SV, and the most important thing is to maintain and expand the welfare state with better and cheaper welfare services. In the next four years, the pressure from the right to build up the welfare state will be even stronger, and the call for lower taxes and taxes has already been heard for months, as well as in this debate. The lower taxes and taxes on the right-hand side will inevitably lead to smaller resources for kindergartens, schools, public transport and higher education, and will lead to higher self-esteem. So these are the political twins in fiscal policy – the Right and the Advance Party – who want to. But the worst thing is that one later on as if it is possible to remove approx. 40 billion kroner from the state budget without anyone noticing it. This is the SV's main challenge: to ensure that the right side does not have power and influence, because this policy is deeply unsocial and because SV has an alternative policy where we want to bet on community, not on egoism. For SV, children and young people, the most important thing we can go to is the choice of, and the most important thing in, the long-term programme. It means creating the world’s best school, better and cheaper kindergartens — and more kindergartens. The recent revision of the national budget provides an example of bluffing when it comes to bet on kindergartens. So there you take and redispatch money because it was built for a few kindergartens last year, and then later you look like this is a big bet. In research, throughout this period we have actually had a large number of people who want to invest in higher education and research. SV has been decided to raise on average at OECD level in terms of research efforts. At the same time, we see that Norwegian research is on the blush. This is the government's agreement, this was the old government's agreement, and then nothing happens. So if we are to become a leading knowledge nation in important areas in our business life, research and higher education are one of the most important things. We want to bet on public transport. So that means that the breakdown in public transport that we have in many cities needs to be improved. We have disregarded the lowest contribution to public transport in Europe. So this rich country cannot afford to invest in public transport. It makes people use a private car, of course. Like when Kosmo State Council no longer uses NSB, people see that the quality is not good enough, that it's too expensive and bad. In this way, we are building down public transport, not the opposite. We want Norway to become a leading environmental nation again, which is at the forefront of the issue of greenhouse gas emissions and which takes this seriously. It means no to the construction of gas power plants, and that means many measures, including: green taxation that causes us to shift taxation from income to what is environmentally harmful consumption [[President clubs]] I understand from the club from the president that I have no more time, but I would like to take up the proposal from SV that is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e906	The representative of Djupedal has drawn up the proposal he referred to. Otherwise, the president of the opinion that the word 'bluff' in the context of the representative Djupedal used it is not a parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e913	One should, after describing all the chances Norway has abused in the last four years, almost do not believe that we lived in the same country. At least I agree with the representative of Djupedal in one thing, that Norway is in a special position because we have large revenues from the oil business and that we have opportunities that no other country has. That means we have to use those possibilities wisely. The balance between solving important societal tasks and holding back from overheating the Norwegian economy is actually facing rather difficult choices. When I heard Djupedal's posts here, I was happy it only lasted five minutes, otherwise we would have heard that even more was important. The most important thing was the welfare state, the most important thing was children and young people, the most important thing was public transport and the most important thing was to be a leading environmental nation. Then my question to SV: what is it that you really want? Can we afford to have an SV policy that focuses on everything being the most important thing? I want to challenge this that when you want to modernise and get something in relation to the welfare community, you need to have more of the old and spend more money on the old. What tasks within the welfare community will SV, for example: Are there opportunities to build new solutions that the new, modern society needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e922	I would like to thank Mrs Fossum for a good reply. I'm going to assume she doesn't disagree with everything I've said. The term welfare state is a concept that contains children, young people, public transport, care for the elderly, hospitals – many things. The welfare state is the foundation on which our civilised society is founded. For SV, it is essential that this is not only taken care of, but developed further. It does not necessarily mean that all the solutions underlying yesterday’s welfare state should be introduced into the future, but that means that this safety net should never be in doubt. There should never be any doubt that we are going to give our kids the best possible start in the world, with kindergartens, with a good school and with a good higher education. If you get sick, it's going to be a hospital to take care of it without any cloudy excesses. We can afford this. Then ask the representative Fossum what we're not going to do. I'm sure there's a lot of things we shouldn't do. We particularly welcome the reforms of the public sector by the Council of State Kosmos. We're interested in seeing if there's money in public that we don't need to spend. More efficiency in the public sector, yes, generally. There shall never be any doubt that the most important thing for SV is the foundation of the welfare state. The ability to use one's abilities to benefit oneself and the community in a way that allows society to evolve further. The most important thing, as I said, is the foundation of the welfare state, but in the welfare state there are, of course, many things. If one in 20-30 years is going to look back at the period that is now behind us, I think many people would say that we had an economic freedom that no other country has ever had. There is no other country in the world that has ever had that freedom of action. It's going to be used with intelligence and caution, and we're not going to overheat the economy. But it's clear that there are many things to spend more money on to get a better welfare society. In fact, I thought that the SV and the Workers' Party were essentially in agreement. The opposite of spending money on the most important is the right-hand side’s response, tax relief and tax relief. This is what they fight for, tax tax, tax. It'll be the less welfare state of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e933	The voluntary organisations represent a great deal of breadth and diversity. Today, we see a new and exciting interaction between public, traditional voluntary activities and the new forms of action and organisation. Voluntary organisations shall be a self-corrective and complementary to the professional in society, and thus also a tool for governance to address societal welfare challenges. The value of these organizations' efforts is actually set at several tens of billions of dollars per year. years. The Christian People's Party will take care of a well-being society with breadth and diversity, with the voluntary sector also having its natural and necessary, even irreplaceable place. This requires that the voluntary sector be given viable conditions, including a cost-effective economy. by means of various financial support measures. In the long-term programme, SV is talking about a well-functioning welfare state, and the representative Djupedal is deepening the latter in the last line response. But I can't find that they've at all used the expression welfare society. It would therefore be interesting to clarify how SV assesses voluntary teams and organisations' social efforts, and whether they will encourage them to take care of and develop the deficiency that this sector represents. Of course, the natural question of SV is also related to the willingness to help voluntary teams and organisations secure economically satisfactory conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e943	I would like to thank the representative Sørfonn for a good reply, and the answer is yes. I think the Christian People's Party and the SV essentially agree on the importance of the voluntary sector for civilised society. I'm going to believe that most of us, both ourselves and through our children and families, participate in a number of teams and associations that we think are infinitely important. We do this because they're part of our community, we're part of the housing team, we're part of the sports team, we're dealing with our kids in the corps, etc. It is clear that society or the state will never be able to replace this, and there is no goal for the state to replace it. But it's an objective that these teams and associations should have an economic foundation that makes it viable for them, because I don't want to, and no one in SV has ever thought of that idea, that this should be fully funded by the public. There's a self-esteem in it, there's a self-esteem in it, there's a self-esteem in it to get money for something you believe in, and these are things that we want to go on. But it is clear that the support from the public to the great, valuable work being done in the field of corps movement, sports movement or voluntary organisations has gone down over time, and I have to say that is very worrying, because this is very valuable work. And I would like to attend at any time an invitation from the Christian People's Party to make this better. What is now going to be the big challenge in the short term is that this soon-adopted and implemented VAT reform must, of course, be compensated for by the public, so that these unintended effects do not arise at increased cost to postage etc., which means that teams and associations are getting worse. We will, of course, and here I also hope that the Christian People's Party agrees, contribute to the fact that teams and associations and voluntary sector do not come out worse than today, preferably better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e948	There have obviously been some changes in Norwegian policy when the Workers' Party and the SV's adrenaline are increasing due to a comitology comment that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have merged, saying that they want ‘to have a balance between the private and public sectors in the Norwegian economy’. Is it so to understand that SV does not want there to be a balance between the public and private sectors? It goes on to say, and Djupedal has also made a point that ‘there must be an objective that the growth of the public sector over time should not exceed the growth of the real estate in mainland Norway’, with emphasis on over time. Now the government's share of mainland Norway is 55 pst. Does it not mean that there are limits to the size of the public sector? Does SV not see that there is a link between a robust private sector and the welfare society we have and the welfare level we can afford? Hasn't SV learned anything from what happened in Finland and Sweden when it saw that the industry collapsed, what consequences did it have for the welfare community? So to another theme that I might not get any compliment from Djupedal to record, or that he's happy that I'm taking up. There's no one who can be as moral as SV, where you always impress. But both Kristin Halvorsen and Øystein Djupedal have been strikingly silent in the fact that their environmental and energy policy spokesman has proposed the Nobel Peace Prize to Castro. Castro is becoming a dictator. He does not show respect for human rights. He throws people in jail. Deep pedals are fast out and require the Government to clean up when a member of the Petroleum Fund fails with his investments. Deserving, but how did he intend to clean up the nomination of Castro? Will management clean up, so that we do not allow SV to nominate dictators at the Nobel Peace Prize simply because the regime calls itself red?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e959	As the representative Burnde is well-known, it is a right of every single staging representative to propose candidates for the Nobel Peace Prize. Hallgeir Langeland has done the same. He has not consulted SV's group or SV's management about it, but he is quite free to propose the candidates he may think are right. He has also exemplified it and said it publicly, as opposed to others who have also proposed the same candidate, but who have not said it publicly. I also have to admit that I do not have an overview – it has no other than the Nobel Committee – of which candidates are proposed by the various representatives in Stortinget. I don't have a bearing, maybe Burnde has it. But I'm not sure that all of these that are proposed are equally high-ranking, and I remember with horror that the Right has supported more candidates who in retrospect would have turned out to be obviously unworthy of receiving this prize. We have no problem that the representative Langeland has proposed what he is doing, but, as I said, neither the group nor the management are consulted, and we would advise against it if he had asked for that kind of advice. So to what goes on in this note, that's come up with a lot of interest. That the right has put in this comment, I understand that. There is, of course, the Right Policy in a nutshell, this limitless belief that growth in private business is what generates wealth. So simple is not the causal relationship. The size will adopt a whole series of major reforms in the future. If these are to be financed, it is difficult to imagine that these could be financed solely by the mainland economy, as it says here. Keeping the whole petroleum sector out is, of course, a remarkable thing in itself – I want to use the word «notice» – because it really means not being able to use the economic freedom that this geological chance has given us in the North Sea. We don't want to look at the economy like that, one can't separate out such a big part of the economy and say we're not going to use this. What we've not joined in this comment, is that we're going to build the welfare state further, and over time that means that the growth of the public can be higher than the growth of the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e966	I want to start from what the representative Djupedal said in the introduction to his post, namely ‘the world’s best school’. He said we've missed the opportunity to create the world's best school. However, the fact is that Norway rates more than almost all other countries at school. We have closer teacher coverage than almost any other country. My question must be, How does SV view the world's best school? I have read SV's comments with interest, and they tend to reduce central curricula – several local trials. We have had a lot of reforms in Norwegian school in recent years. The results have generally become poorer reading skills for students, poorer math skills, we get feedback from universities on the ever lower level of student knowledge and poorer rating for Norwegian students at foreign universities. So the question is: which school does SV really want, and how will they get this to? Will they just spend more money in Norwegian school — even the government admits that just increasing the appropriations does not necessarily lead to positive results — or will SV look at the school content? Can SV e.g. Think of cooperation with business and take some more account of the needs of business, look more into the real world and have certain common standards for Norwegian school as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e975	Let me thank you for a good line, because this is a central question. Three weeks ago I was at the 25th class party for Sverresborg secondary school, where we met for the first time in 25 years. We sat in the same classroom. I was sitting on the same desk at the same school that I attended when I went out in 1976. On the desk, it was Sweet, Slade and Thomas. I remember. Thomas must soon be 60 years old, and Sweet and Slade went off early, once in the late 1970s. There were six different types of pellets, so they weren't even modernized since I went out 25 years ago. This also has some to do with Norwegian school. And believing that you can create a good school without more resources is naive. Resources in themselves are not sufficient, but it can create a room for learning that lightes up a little bit more – not just decay – and that there are people who have invested in it. It is not without reason that the shopping centres are lighting up. That's where we bet, but not in the school buildings. It actually has something to do with how the students meet the entire everyday life that the school is. This means that we want more resources for the school, and in particular we want to give priority to the early school, which has come under the shadow of the two major reforms we have had – the six-year-olds entering school and the reform for high school. Youth school is the most worn-out and forged part, including content, of Norwegian school. But the second piece that's important is to create content in Norwegian school that's more in line with the time we live in. I think there's been a very strong tendency to centralize Norwegian school too much. Greater freedom, freedom to teach, freedom to find pedagogical ways, but not freedom to distance oneself from knowledge. For knowledge, of course, is the most important part of school. We want a knowledge school, but we don't want a doggy school. We want a school that motivates learning, not that whips in learning. And this is actually the main difference between the School Policy of the Progress Party and the School Policy of the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e984	Int. S. No 229, page 3, second column, writes SV in a note that due to the lack of labour, this member believes that ‘a certain shift from competitive to sheltered sector can be accepted’. This, of course, means in practice that industrial workers are moving into the sheltered sector. My first question to the representative of Djupedal is therefore: What industrial workers are going to lose their jobs to both move to other parts of the country and move to other professions? Is it the shipyard workers, are the employees of the aluminium industry, are the employees of the fishing industry who, according to SV, are going to lose their jobs to meet the demand for labour in the sheltered sector? My second question is: how has SV planned to move forward to the transition from competitive to protected sectors addressed here? The competitive sector is exposed to competition and is the free business that we have in this country and that has a crucial factor for employment, namely the competitiveness and cost level. So, if SV is to achieve its objective, it must be through an increase in costs that creates less competitive conditions compared to competitors in other countries. Does this mean that SV intends to use cost levels, interest rates, taxes or other factors to reduce the competitive sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e993	In the last year’s government budget, the government presented proposals on what was called a short-term economic tax, in order to reduce the growth in demand in the private part of the economy in favour of the public part of the economy. This did not go through in Stortinget, among others. with the support of the Centre Party, but there was another cyclical charge, which is in principle the same. By the way, this was also removed immediately afterwards when one saw that it did not have the intended effect. However, the point of this type of action was to address the labour shortage in the public sector. Because it is a fact that part of the pressure we are now seeing is due to the lack of labour and a business life that has gone very well for many years. I believe that developments in Norway over time will be just as we see here, and that was also stated in the State budget, namely that the need for labour in the public sector will grow. So you can attack this in a completely different way: how do we get more hands? And the welfare state and Norwegian business community need more available hands. These can be obtained in a variety of ways. The reform proposed by SV and subsequently adopted, namely the reform of continuing education and training, is one way of qualifying the unqualified. Of course, getting unemployed is one of the easiest things to do. However, allowing for increased labour migration, for example: through a Green Card scheme, which exists in the United States, can be one measure. Allowing students to work more alongside the study may be another measure. Letting retired people work more alongside them can also be an action. The unemployed under the age of 50 must be guaranteed a job within a relatively short period of time. In any case, they are to be called up for an interview at the employment office in order to try to organise it. And perhaps the most important measure is to prevent the increase in disability pensioners, who have been the type of explosion for several years, and they make up nearly 300,000 people. Clearly, it is possible to imagine here that there is the labour force that both Norwegian industry and Norwegian public sector will need in order for us to create a better society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1000	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1003	For a socially liberal party, individual human freedom, happiness and well-being are the goal of society. The policy of the left unites the freedom of individuals responsible for the community and for each other. In the view of the Left there is a conviction that we all have the ability to create the good life for ourselves and others. We believe that more diversity and space for individual freedom and development of life will provide a more human society. Freedom is a prerequisite for taking responsibility for your own actions and showing consideration for your fellow human beings. The left has visions for a liberal future: on a society characterised by tolerance, justice and equivalence of free and participative citizens who take responsibility both for themselves and for the community for a society based on closeness, care and respect for one another, regardless of the background, culture and status of society for a better world where the good is distributed more fairly, and everyone is given the opportunity to live a good life We in the left think this is possible. We have a social vision of optimism and faith in the future. At the beginning of the 21st century, liberal values are stronger than ever before. Individual freedom, respect for the individual and human rights are recognized values for more and more. Individuals have been given increased freedom that offers new opportunities for human growth. At the same time, we must find good Community solutions that take care of both freedom and responsibility. This is the issue of the Left in Norwegian policy. In examining this long-term programme, like the previous one, the Left has co-existed with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party on comprehensive comments on policies to change Norway. Among the important issues are strengthening local democracy through much greater freedom for municipalities, investing in voluntary Norway and active environmental and district policies. These are the center values. In 1997, the corresponding joint comment provided the basis for the central government. The policy centre of this long-term programme could provide the basis for the new government of Norway. The left will have reforms that guarantee the rights and freedom of choice of individuals. The left will conduct a strict privacy policy, so you have the right to know what others know about you. The left will legislate genetic non-discrimination, so that no new technology is used to sort people. The left will have an accessibility reform that facilitates access by people with disabilities to services, work and educational opportunities. The societies of the future will be multicultural. Increased labour migration will add more diverse competences to the Norwegian society and facilitate the integration process between the Nordics and immigrants. The left will legislate on the right to apply for asylum and increase the number of quota refugees. Left believes the choice of life's vision is a strict personal choice. The left will therefore accelerate the process of separation between Church and State, and change the purpose paragraphs of public institutions so that they become inclusive of all and make fundamental values visible. All decisions in society should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. The left will legislate the local self-government and move power out of state and government. Today, the State governs the municipalities and county councils through a comprehensive law on rights, rules, impositions and earmarked grants. The left will return to the local government by giving the local people elected real power over the decisions of their own communities. Municipalities must have greater freedom to determine their own level of taxation. Designation must be reduced to a minimum and replaced by free means. The left is in order for municipalities to be able to hold elections when they want to do so within the electoral year. This will give local elections a real local character, and local issues will be the focus of the local election campaign. The left will have a more open and simpler Norway. Too much power is concealed in closed decision-making processes few have access to, and through unnecessarily complicated legislation. The left will have a strong simplification of public bureaucracy and legislation. The left will meet the globalised economy by building strong global rules, institutions and cooperation arrangements. Economic globalisation must be accompanied by globalised policies. Poverty in the south must be combated by eradicating the debt of poor countries and strengthening investment and assistance. Norway must provide full market access and customs freedom for all products from the least developed countries. Human rights, democracy and stringent environmental requirements must underpin Norway's international efforts. The left will put education and research at the top of society's priorities. Only this can give everyone the opportunity to develop abilities and creativity. The left will give schools resources, trust and freedom to unleash local creativity. We want a separate learning environment law for rivers and students, such as: ensure that students have more influence on their own everyday lives. The teaching profession needs to be made more attractive through pay, working conditions and red tape, unnecessary meetings and detailed plans. The left will significantly increase Norwegian research efforts over the next four years. An essential part of this shall be to resume the free basic research after many years of starvation. The left will release funds so that universities and colleges can provide students with better follow-up. We want a rapid and significant improvement in the students' economy and a greater investment in the construction of rental and student housing. A diverse and creative cultural life is not a luxury. It's the opposite of making life worth living. The left wants a greater share of the state budget to be used for cultural purposes. The left will gather and clarify the state responsibility for art and culture in its own cultural law. Voluntary Norway contributes unselfishly to society without being guided by public or commercial interests. No one gets as much activity out of each krona as voluntary Norway, where most of the work is voluntary and unpaid. Unfortunately, voluntary organisation life is too much subject to state regulation and over-management. The left will release voluntary Norway. Money that is now missing in detail management and bureaucracy can instead create more activity in voluntary Norway. Public support schemes must support the freedom and independence of organisations. We have low taxation on resource use and pollution in Norway. At the same time, taxation of labour input is high. This leads to a distortion of the use of society's resources and to major socio-economic losses. It is expensive to hire new employees, while it pays to waste resources and to pollute the environment. The left will actively use the tax system in the service of the environment. We want to reduce taxes on labour income, and increase it on consumption and pollution. The left will introduce flat tax on all incomes, with a large deduction that ensures good distribution and primarily benefits them with low incomes. The left's environmental tax reform provides a better framework for business, improves the environment and improves social cohesion. The green tax reform of the left will help to flatten out and reduce energy use in Norway in the long term. The left will thereby turn Norway into a leading country for modern environmental technologies and focus on research and development of alternative energy sources and gas power technologies without CO2 emissions. Norway must follow consistently and unambiguously international agreements on lower greenhouse gas emissions. The left says no to the construction of gaseous power plants. The left will invest more in public transport in and around the big cities. Income from road pricing and tolls must be used to provide better and cheaper collective services. The left will have a forward-looking innovation policy where small businesses are at the centre, and creating their own job becomes as natural as becoming the employee of others. The left believes that the aquaculture industry can become a supporter of national value creation and provide the basis for continued coastal settlement. We will speed this up by stepping up research and innovation efforts in this sector. Extensive reforms are needed to develop and maintain the welfare state. Helping those who have at least a better life is more important than moving money between the vast majority of people who already live in material wealth. The left will give more time and greater freedom to families with children through an additional holiday week for parents with children under 10 years of age and through more flexible working time arrangements. The left considers that a wide range of economic benefits offered by society to those in need of help can be coordinated in a way that results in much less bureaucracy, while avoiding many people being turned into passive clients. A system of pay for citizens will be much more flexible than today's many and complex benefits. People who are out of work for various reasons can also contribute to society through voluntary action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1081	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1084	It is a long-term programme we are dealing with, and the possibility of describing how a person will conduct a coherent and predictable policy is present. The national meeting of the Left also meant to draw up political, long-term lines. And a civil salary, as Johansen also mentioned, of $100,000 until everyone was produced as the great vision and in line with the basic vision of the Left. In fact, that vision, and it was emphasised, is based on a three-year perspective and not on a long-term period of four years. But one has to wonder why one has to wait 30 years, and what it is the Left believes to see in the future development that makes it possible to implement the proposal then and not now. And another question. Now you're freeing the left to the right and to the center. But from what parties and to what extent does the representative Johansen believe that Left will be able to join his so-called visions? Or is the implementation of the proposal less interesting and more suitable for a future election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1095	The concept of civic pay, or social pay, has been on the Left's programme for almost ten years. And in the welfare message, which the central government presented and to which the Workers' Party gave its support, this term is taken up, and the Workers' Party has given its consent to try it out. When the National Conference of the Left, which is a sobering assembly, at least during the programme process, suggested that it might take a long time – 30 years is unknown to me – this is because we do not have so much confidence in, for example, the EU. The working party is so very busy implementing this vision. Left thinks that this is the way of the future to make sure that those who have the least in society get a certain minimum without being clients, but that they get something they deserve from society. And when the representative Hildeng says that everyone is going to get it, I have to say that I don't think that's part of this vision. Otherwise, this vision is described in the book on scenarios that have just come out, so this is not something left alone, but that social scientists and social economists from many camps actually give their support. What's the main purpose of this is to remove the millimetre bureaucracy that, among other things, The working party is responsible for, and so those with the least resources are actually the ones drowning in these fine-skinned yarns. It is this Left that will first and foremost come to life through a simplified system. In addition to the fact that many other schemes are to be included in this, a significant part of the bureaucracy that we are currently using will also disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1104	The representative Terje Johansen from the Left spent a lot of time telling about the Left's belief and valuation of the individual. But does the Left have such faith in the individual? Let's take culture, for example. If an individual wants to spend his leisure time on a boat and boat life, the left wants first that he should be charged when he buys a boat. Then he will be charged if he finds out that he is going to have an engine in that boat, then he will be charged if he buys petrol for that boat engine, and then with Left's approval he will now be charged when he adds the boat a place – he must pay the boat rental. In contrast, does a person choose to use his free time for dancing and ballet or to sing opera, then the Left wants him to receive support from the State – is it to believe in the individual and to believe that one can choose one's own leisure activities? Obviously, it's like charging the leisure staff that the Left doesn't want people to have. You take the money from them. And then you give to those who are doing what the Left wants them to do. Is that the belief in the individual and the right of the individual to decide for himself his or her leisure time? The left insists strongly that they are the small-scale company. When the Left sat in government, the proposals that led business to rage, among other things. on a deterioration of the split model. In the last budget, the Left made the depreciation rules for small and medium-sized enterprises particularly difficult. My question is, is there consistency between what the Left says and what they actually do in the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1117	The answer to the question is yes. There is consistency between what the Left believes and what the Left does. Unlike the Progress Party, the Left has not only sat on the sideline and talked about what we want to do, but we've also been on the track trying to do something where the game is actually going on. The difference between the Left and the Advance Party is that we try to exercise influence despite the fact that we are the smallest party of the Storting, which the Progress Party does not actually give itself the opportunity to – and probably will never have the opportunity, but it is another case. The representative Svendsen insists on talking about culture, which in itself is an interesting theme from the Advancement Party, since they have insinuated that the public at all should interfere in culture. He's talking about boating as part of the cultural concept, and I can agree with that. But when he talks about the taxes on the purchase of components for boating, he intervenes in a tax system that has nothing to do with supporting cultural life. It's actually quite right, as the representative Svendsen suggests, that the Left to some extent wants to conduct behavioural therapy through the tax system. There we differ from some other parties, because we believe that taxes and taxes can actually affect people in certain directions. But what we've been aiming at is using taxes and taxes in the service of the environment, and that's what's called the green tax shift. In fact, some of the fees charged to boat life are intended to do so. The left view is good, that we limit part of the environmentally harmful use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1129	Both inside and outside this house show great interest in the Workers' Party. But we who follow a little bit in politics, you know, there's an undertone that clearly proves that this interest isn't exactly the mark of caring for the Workers' Party. I'd rather say it's asking for more reluctance in relation to a party that uses political power to divide society. And I can promise Terje Johansen, as a representative of the Left, that the Labour Party will continue to use all the power we have for fair distribution also in relation to the welfare arrangements that a civil plurality, with which the Left is also involved, will reduce. I was almost to the National Day when I heard the representative talk about tolerance, justice, freedom, community solutions, etc. But when we look at Left's attack on the sick pay scheme, it's not in relation to the post that the representative had. I really have to ask: can the Left's attack on the sickle system be defended by the Left's history and the Left's tradition? For the Labour Party, the sick pay scheme is a strong expression of trust and respect for workers in this country. Where in Left's basic vision and tradition, does Terje Johansen find the basis for the attack that Left now stands for? Now there is a Left tradition to refer to the Sandman selection settings. What I'm asking is actually Left's basic vision, not Sandman's selection setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1136	I do not fully agree with the introduction by the representative Kaldhol that we should not be affected by the care of the Workers' Party, and what we otherwise stand for. But now leave it. His question goes on the Left's basic attitude to the sickness pay system. Let me say it this way: we in the left are actually strong defenders of the health pay system, but it's become a clumsy about the foot financially. This now knows even more about the Workers' Party after they got back to government and see that the population's security is rising by $7 billion a year. The problem is that this – the most expensive of all Norwegian welfare schemes – goes to the healthy, working people. Left sees that if we're going to get a better distribution than we have today, we're going to have to ask the healthy, the working, to be solidarity with those who are worse. The left does not want to go along with the health pay scheme, as some other parties will – rather on the contrary. When we've been out describing what kind of system we want, we've said that we're based on the Sandman Committee's proposal, which we think is reasonable and balanced. On behalf of the Left, I have said several times that we should make exceptions for those who really need it, for example. parents with young children and the chronically ill. I can also be willing to bring women in low pay. What is the problem today is that everyone, from the Director via the big business representatives to the weakest, benefits from this system. When it's about to blow up every frame, so we can't afford to do anything else we want, it's time to work together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1143	When you hear Terje Johansen’s free ‘droodleries’ from the pulpit, you are at least tempted to ask one question – perhaps a couple. Is this hanging together? I have registered that the left goes in for a civil salary of 80 000 kroner. I assume it will be tax-free. If not, the bureaucracy would be further complicated. I assume that people who work will also receive the same amount free of tax – that is, the base deduction will be NOK 80000. That's an interesting model. In addition, if the left has to have the tax rates down so that they are similar, so that you get a flat tax, that means that the left is also dependent on removing the top tax. Has the left seen anything about the proceeds of the sum of a deduction of NOK 80000 and the removal of the top tax? That's my one question. The second is, has the Left considered the consequences of this for those with long studies, high student loans and high debt? My third question relates to green taxes. The left answers any question about taxes that they should take it back in other areas. So we're going to have to get some relief from the tax on work. I think that's positive. But then we have to pay it in other areas. I understand that the area in which you argue most strongly to take it back is the area of electricity charge. Much was known in the public investigation – the Lund Committee did well to investigate green taxes – and the related big business report agreed that a tax on the world’s purest energy carrier, hydropower, was not to be defined as a green tax. Has Left redefined it, or are there other areas where you're going to take in billions, if you're not going to give tax relief overall?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1150	First, I can welcome the representative Foss that in our model of salary, which in the calculations we are making, actually amounts to NOK 100 000 per year, there is also a tax-free deduction for everyone of NOK 100 000. That we want to remove the progression in income tax is also right. To finance this, we have to do something different than we did before, and we're assuming that with a flat rate of slightly above 30 pst, we're going to get most of what we give away. Then it is that we believe that in order to achieve a significant tax conversion, which is what this is about, and which we actually have a principle decision on in the agreement with the Workers' Party – that is, the Centre-Worker's Party – such tax reform must be lubricated with tax relief. We'd like to have a discussion with the Right on how large it should be. It's not going to be the size proposed by the Right, but we can imagine lubricating such a reform with a few billion kroner. With regard to the green taxes, the electricity tax, together with the VAT, has now helped bring the price of electricity up to a level that we believe is appropriate. We do not want to do anything about the electricity charge at the level of the price to the consumer now. Now we've come to the level we had in 1997. It's the only year we had a decline in consumption, and that's what we wanted to achieve with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1159	In Johansen's reply to me instead, he did not touch much of the business policy. I understand that, it was wise to stay away from it. There are not many decisions that have hit small and medium-sized enterprises as badly as the deterioration in the depreciation rules, on which the Left was included in the State budget. Among those hardest hit by this is the transport industry. Not only is the profitability of businesses affected by the need to pay more taxes, but it leads – and that may be the worst – to less replacement of car combinations and trucks. This in turn leads to, of course, that employees get a worse working environment – that is one thing. The left claims time and again that they are so concerned with the environment and that they have to have a green tax scheme to reduce emissions. I do not think that this justification is in order, because does the Left not see that the deterioration in the depreciation rules leads to much later replacing these trails? In other words, it takes much longer before you get an environmentally friendly euro engine – which pollutes much less – in these cars. And here, too, the Left is talking about the environment and green taxes, and then they're doing the exact opposite! In addition, of course, the safety aspect is that this part of the fleet is getting older and older, with old technological solutions leading to more road insecurity. But it might not be that important for the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1170	Over four years in Stortinget, I have observed that for the representative Svendsen it is the seventh and the last, whether it is based on cultural or industrial policy, whether a boat or a car. I'm going to admit one thing: when you're sitting like a little party in discussions about a government budget where you have to get a majority, it's actually not possible to get to what you want. In their contributions to the budget of the Labour Party Government, they had committed an increase in the employer’s fee of 1.5 pst. plus a number of other things – VAT on travel life, not least – for small businesses in Northern Norway that we found intolerable. We then negotiated for one week to get rid of the worst crops, but in order to get to the discovery we had to endure some minor pains. With regard to the depreciation of balances, I'm actually quite unhappy that we had to be part of it. However, I have to say that in the situation in which Norway is now in terms of labour supply, I am absolutely sure that an increase in the employer's fee of 1.5 pst., which had been significantly damaged also for the long-distance transport companies, we had not been able to get out of the budget again in the next round. On the other hand, I believe that the write-offs should be able to get out already in the next budget, possibly with other partners. I think it's less pain than an increased employer's fee would have been, because it had to be paid by everyone, whether the company is going with profits or not. Depreciation and depreciation rates only affect those who have a surplus, and not all the small enterprises – including long-distance transport companies – who have a deficit. They would have suffered if we had not agreed to this compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1182	More than ever, we can see that we live in the societies of opportunity. We have opportunities to create an inclusive society, where everyone can be guaranteed social and economic security – a security that is a prerequisite for creating a society based on tolerance and mutual respect. The opportunities lie in the economy of our country, in an active workforce, in well-developed welfare services and in organisations that are willing to participate in and be responsible for the further development of our welfare society. But it's an old saying that says, "It has to be strong back to carry good days." And we see clearly forces that will obscure our common opportunities. We have seen a culture of greed among business peaks — a culture that must necessarily be provocative to the many workers who show moderation in order to develop the welfare systems for all of us. The Right Party and the Progressive Party attract with tax relief combined with a political rhetoric on the freedom of individuals. But the consequences of their policies are the most powerful right, for the right-hand promises of tax havens are a medal with very dark backsides: degradation and subsequent fury of the public welfare state. Today’s Norwegian welfare systems were built up over several decades and were not at all to be counted as self-evident when they were fought in their time. If the right-hand side tax formulas – with light promises of profit for the individual – are to dominate in the coming years, the big loser will become the Norwegian welfare state as we know it today. Over time, there will be so-called ordinary people who are hardest hit by such a development. And the strongest ones are left. A core concept of the Labour Party's policy is freedom, freedom to develop and participate in society. But that freedom is also based on an understanding that, if freedom is to embrace all and be real, freedom from economic and social insecurity must be a prerequisite. A strong welfare state is precisely the prerequisite for the freedom of the many. Those who have really experienced an extension of their freedom of choice are the thousands of women who, in recent years, have jumped from an isolated life in the family to participation in the public sphere – in politics and working life. A prerequisite for this freedom of choice is precisely a well-developed and well-developed public sector. Nordic and southern European countries have chosen different models to develop their societies. It has, among other things, led to a different division of labour between the public sector, the market and the family. The Nordic countries are characterised by high public expenditure, a high proportion of employed women in work, limited economic dependence on the family and relatively small economic differences and low poverty. This is a form of society that also requires a high level of taxation. The southern European models are characterised by low public expenditure, high economic dependence on the family, where adult children live at home and older with their children, low employment rates with many domestic women and relatively large economic differences and relatively many poor. It's a social form where the tax level is low. The Workers' Party will further develop the Nordic welfare model, but this demands both our solidarity and our willingness to bet on the community. The working party has such a willingness to bet on the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1203	The Government's long-term programme must be seen in conjunction with other large-scale announcements and proposals that clarify the direction of the Labour Party's policies in the various policy areas of great importance for the further development of society. On the whole, it seems to me that the direction of the policy is towards stronger centralisation at the expense of the districts. The values are created in the districts, mainly along the coast, but the value-creating areas are rarely counted for this. The state's investments mainly go to the eastern part of the country, to Oslo and the neighbouring states. Where the country's investment takes precedence, private investment follows, and the country's total investment capital is too heavily tied up in the central eastern region, where the pressure in the economy is the largest. I refer to Bjørvika, with all the government and private investment capital planned to be used around the opera itself, and I refer to IT Fornebu, with the demands for transport investment that have been added to the large investments that the state has already made to increase employment in one of the richest areas in the country. Only these two projects, with everything that comes with them, will bind up investment capital in Oslo and Akershus for many years to come, and take all credibility out of the government's pious desire to maintain essentially today's housing pattern. Because if districts do not retain a greater part of their own value creation, lack of investment capacity in infrastructure and cultural development will result in districts being drained not only for their material resources but also for their human capital, because modern people want easy access to both cultural experiences and time infrastructure in all meanings of the word. Therefore, the Coastal Party will work to ensure that the corporate tax will be applied to the municipality in which the enterprise is located, and not to take the road around the state treasury so that the districts will have a part back in terms of transfers that appear to be the mild gifts of the large community to District Norway. Without the value creation taking place along the coast, Oslo would be lying thin. When oil revenues decline, marine products are expected to take over as Norway’s largest export income. Marine products are also produced along the coast, and the Coastal Party believes that ownership of industry based on coastal resource base must be as firmly anchored locally as possible. It is necessary to facilitate the possibility for coastal and district value creators to develop local communities which increase the possibility of obtaining clusters of primary production, thus contributing to the diversity of industrial development and choice. We can only achieve this by investing in the districts. The coastal party cannot accept that the costs of necessary infrastructure investments are to be borne by the local population in the form of tolls. This is an extra tax that imposes unfair burdens on people and businesses in Coastal Norway. The Labour Party points to the need for labour conversion, and much indicates that seafarers are a group that is planned to be converted to other activities. If we don't support our rootstock of Norwegian seafarers by providing them with internationally competitive framework conditions, the basis for recruitment to maritime education will fall, and in a few years we will lose not only the maritime food cluster, but also the administrative competence we need to safeguard our own coastline and coastal safety. The Coastal Party will therefore impose a uncompromising requirement to facilitate a base line of 25 000 competitive seafarers' jobs. The Labour Party has a small offensive policy to meet the tightness of the labour market. The Coastal Party will not only have a better school with teachers who are trained towards the different stages of the school and have sabbatical years of competence to increase knowledge and prevent burnout and early retirement, but we will also facilitate young people's job opportunities to take a maturing and development break between primary and secondary schools, so that more people can find their place in the workplace and not who are currently outside and unskilled without ever having been in work. This is not just how we can increase the workforce, but we can reduce the public expenditure associated with an increasingly large group of young people who are less well off. The coastal party sees a clear need to reduce the level of charges. This is a form of social taxation that particularly affects those with low income. People with low incomes must also receive a tax relief that allows a full-time employee to live on his own income. And we want to safeguard the purchasing power of pensioners, so that they become less dependent on public support schemes and can buy more of the service they need. Finally, from the Coastal Party, we will point to the unfortunate effects of inheritance taxes and taxes on working capital on the rootstock of the district industry, the privately owned local enterprises where local owners are actively involved in the development of their communities. Time is running fast – I see there is no time to get into more areas of the Coastal Party visions for the next period. I am referring only to the comments made by the representative of Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1229	The government’s long-term programme provides a good social analysis and points to concrete potential for value creation and for meeting the welfare challenges in the future. One of the biggest challenges is that there are too few people to do all the tasks that need to be done in both the public and private sectors. And then there's everything we want to do. The Labour Party will first and foremost meet this challenge by focusing on all people in the country who want it to be able to take advantage of the opportunities such as: the workline and a comprehensive educational provision facilitate. This means that it must be possible to combine work and social security and work and care. But what will give the most lasting solution in a society where conversion is both positive and necessary is to have a holistic education offering that provides renewal and, not least, the transformation of individual knowledge and competence. The Labour Party has implemented many reforms in the field of education. In my view, the most important thing in this context is that the knowledge acquired by people in professional practice has been accepted as knowledge in connection with further study. This is not only an acceptance of professional practices and training; it is, in fact, also an offer of continuous renewal of knowledge and competence. Lifelong learning is positive for labour needs, and it also creates security and opportunities for those who need to cope with the transition and change in the working and life situation. Renewal of the public sector is also part of meeting the challenge of too few people for all the work of society. We know that this renewal, which is now well under way, is not least about the individual's work situation and about security in the future. It is therefore natural for the Workers' Party that this important renewal process takes place in close dialogue with the added and their organisations. We're now investing a lot of resources to renew people's skills, and we're encouraging people to stay longer in the world of work. It is therefore a paradox for me that in such a situation, and at a time when the pressure on the job persists at the same time as single people, the job and society will face change, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Left workers with reductions in the sick pay system. There is every reason to believe that there are the same human beings that these parties want to help exploit the potential for value creation in the business community, and that are to be security producers in the public sector. The need for value creation and more warm hands is well documented in the long-term programme. In the Labour Party we know that creating security for everyone is a matter of value, and that is a question of political distribution. We think that people will both get and that they have a right to participate in the construction of the country with the possibilities that the government points to in the long-term program. It is not particularly forward-looking or trusting when the bourgeois parties attack workers with financial sanctions through cuts in the sick pay system. The fact that this is also to be used to finance tax relief for those who already have a lot of money says a lot about the lack of understanding of the challenges we face, and not least about the nature of the human values that it focuses on. There are several policy clarifications in this long-term programme, and it is important for all those who will be involved in building the country in the future that they know that there is still a party that will ensure the financial basis of the sick pay scheme. The Labour Party believes that security of pay under illness is a fundamental foundation of well-being, and that this is the most concrete expression of trust and respect we can show workers. It must be clear to the workers that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that reduced pay by up to several tens of thousands a year should reduce sick leave, and that it should lead to less disease. Where do Christian People's Party and Left cover for such attitudes towards workers in the parties find their fundamental views and historical traditions? I don't think this will bring added value to the business community or more hot hands in kindergarten and in the care sector. I believe that one gets no more trust and respect than one shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1245	The big difference between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other hand in tax matters is belief in the individual. The other parties believe that the best way people can use their income is to let the government take away their money in taxes and taxes, and then let the government spend this money in the areas where they think the people would spend their money. Yes, it has come so far that every citizen in this country must work for the State from 1 January to 1 August. Only after this will the citizens of this country keep their own money. I think it's strange that people don't rebel, but this really just proves that the Norwegian people are a peaceful people's behaviour. Of course, the Progress Party sees that some tasks in society need to be solved by the public. But here too, the Progress Party differs from the other parties. While the Progress Party wants to invest in some important primary tasks, such as health, care for the elderly, crime prevention, defence, etc., on which the state in return has to invest a lot, the other parties want to spend the people's money on one and all. The party of progress has the belief in the individual that it is, for example, an individual. is fully capable of planning and using their leisure time, while the other parties consider that the State, through budgetary decisions in the Storting, is the most suitable person to plan and use the leisure time of individuals. So men have the Advance Party the belief in individuals that they are fully capable of managing their leisure time, just the state does not take away their money in taxes and taxes. If a person wants to spend his leisure time on his hobby of singing opera, dancing ballet or painting pictures, then you get paid by the state by taking taxes and taxes from the population and then by giving this to these practitioners in budget decisions. If, on the other hand, someone has a hobby of boating and boating, the state does the opposite. This is clearly not what the state wants the population to do, or they do not accept the value of boating for the individual who chooses this leisure activity. For what other reason it may be that if a person buys a boat, a fee must be paid to the State, buys a boat engine, a paying horsepower charge must be paid, uses a boat, has to pay a fuel tax, and now Stortinget Jamm has decided that if a tenant puts the boat there, then a fee must be paid for it as well. In addition, the individual must pay a property tax in order to own the boat. And as if that were not enough, the state has decided that the boat should be registered so that you can start charging to own the boat as well. This proves that if you do not have the interests that the state believes you should have, the state will take the money from the individual citizen to use them as the Stortinget really thinks you should have spent the money. The party of progress believes in the individual and that the individual can decide to a far greater extent how to use leisure time. Then turn to another topic: rural policy and road appropriations. In response to my reply earlier today, the representative Odd Roger Enoksen, who is from Nordland, shared his experience of driving in the Netherlands with Stortinget. That's interesting in itself. On the other hand, I want to share my long experience as a driver in Norway, and especially in Northern Ireland, with my co-representatives. While the representative of Enoxen is obviously most concerned about explaining why Norway cannot have the same road standard as the Netherlands, I am more concerned about working to get as good roads as possible in this country. And then it's not useful with nice formulations in the program, then it requires sounding coins, because it costs to build road networks in Norway. And then I would like to ask: is money a problem in Norway, with an extra income of NOK 41 billion more from the oil business than calculated in the state budget? In other words, we do not lack money. So it's this thing with inflation. The revised national budget states that there is a high level of available capacity in the civil engineering sector. So we also have the labour force. I guess that can't lead to pressure in the economy. And then we're going to turn words into action. This is what the Progress Party is doing, and we will continue to do what we have repeatedly proposed in the State budgets: to provide more money for road construction so that businesses and the population, including in the districts, are able to develop by offsetting the competitive disadvantages of living in the districts, where there are poor roads and high transport costs associated with getting out with their products. But it requires action, not words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1261	One often meets the claim that there is little difference between the political parties in Norway. The selectors are wild, and the migration between the games is large. In this way, the setting for the long-term programme and the debate are used to clarify the differences. Yes, I mean that one sees the same thing in each budget debate and on a case-by-case basis, that it crystallizes a clear distinction between a right and a left side. In many ways, we are faced with a choice of value – a choice of which societal model we will have in the future, a choice between a continuation of the Nordic welfare model, where we combine value creation with good distribution, and a model where each individual needs to buy more well-being. The Labour Party wants to further develop a welfare society where the challenge is also to reach those groups that have not been sufficiently involved in this. We want to work for a fair distribution that also has to apply to geographically. That is why we need to have good communication across the country, to strengthen regional high-pitched and development environment, to regional health services, to regional food and development environment and to bet on regional centres in order to create a shortage of work, experience and services, in short, a range of measures for building, activity and well-being across the country. At a time when the older part of the population is making up an increasing proportion, and where an increasing part of the people have social security or education, this creates some challenges. In such a situation, the Right Party and the Advance Party once again make promises of significant reductions in taxes and charges to the large flagship. Of course, it's popular. We could all easily get popular with that. No one wants high taxes and fees for fun debt. At the same time, however, we will have better welfare arrangements, better communication, better local economy, and, indeed, better provision in all areas. This does not mean that this needs to be financed. There is a question of how much taxes and taxes are required, and how one can charge them in the most fair way. There must be consistency between expenditure and revenue, as simple as that. If we want sick people to lose a lot of money in addition to the burden of illness, we want more expensive kindergartens and school-time schemes, if we want to remove transfers to agriculture and other district policy measures, we want to have poorer schools, health services and care for the elderly – yes, of course, we can drastically reduce taxes and taxes. The party of advances in medicine is to spend a lot more on the oil fund than the government adds to it. It's a simple answer to the challenges. However, this will stimulate demand strongly at a time when there is a shortage of labour, leading to an increase in price and cost growth and interest rates. Cork competes with businesses, or most people want to take advantage of it – on the contrary. Right-wing solutions are also smaller taxes and taxes. But this has to be paid unless public welfare, among others. less sick pay, reduced transfers to districts, more expensive school leave schemes and increased privatisation. And this is a clear choice that it's okay to stick to. The Labour Party will continue a welfare model where the public will be responsible for not keeping the wallet or where you live, deciding on your options for legitimate welfare services. But then there are two clear precepts that must be at the bottom. Firstly, we need an industrial policy that stimulates innovation and value creation across the country. Without great value creation and productivity, there is nothing to do with or with. We also need a more inclusive working life, where many more can get a job offer and use their resources. The long-term programme sets out clear measures to achieve this. The second provision is that people may have effective services that are proportionate to the level of taxation they have. That is why we must have a strong and effective public sector. Without it, there will be no understanding of paying taxes and taxes. Without it, there's a call for private solutions. This is where the Workers' Party and the Government have taken the utmost action. The public sector must be strengthened and thus renewed. We need to reduce bureaucracy and increase services. A great value creation and a strong public sector are the decisive means of further developing our welfare model.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1282	The signals that emerge from the discussion and debate on the long-term programme are particularly important. These include: Through these tutorials we can find out how the various parties want the development of society in the coming period, and here it should be possible to read both similarities and differences between the individual parties and constellations. A fundamental objective of economic policy is to facilitate the creation of value, work for all and the defence and long-term management of natural resources and the environment. Our wealth from petroleum must be managed so that we can secure long-term and viable solutions to key welfare tasks, at the same time as we avoid creating pressures in the economy. It is therefore with some wonder that we note that the government has changed the argument in this field in a very short time. A few months ago, it was strongly argued that the use of more oil money would weaken the foundations of the economy and result in a weakening of the overall welfare supply. So now it has been responsible to use a lot more of the oil wealth. Petroleum resources must be managed so that they will also benefit the next generations. For this reason, we in the Christian People's Party believe that the use of petroleum revenues must be seen in conjunction with the cyclical situation at all times. We also believe that it is interesting to consider more closely the use of these revenues against the possible funding of parts of our people's rights obligations. An important objective of economic policy is that the framework conditions for different sectors become stable and sustainable. One of the challenges in the future is to invest its financial assets in future value creation without creating adverse effects on the Norwegian economy. Here a tool can be used to create long-term budgeting. Then I have to comment on the comment that is referred to so many times today, and that is published to the unrecognizable. I thought it might be appropriate to read the comment in context. It says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party, the Right, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen also consider it important to have a balance between the private and public sectors in the Norwegian economy. Both in order to ensure continued space for competitive business and to provide sufficient incentives for increased productivity and efficiency in the public sector, these members believe that the objective must be that growth in the public sector over time should not be higher than the growth in value creation in mainland Norway.» I have a strong suspicion that the reality of these formulations is entirely in line with what it previously has a broad political understanding of. As you know, economic policy is made up of fiscal, monetary and income policies. In an existing interaction, these sub-areas shall, for example: ensuring the objective of a stable business environment and sound economic development. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the impact of fiscal policy on this wholeness is not weakened. If it happens, the real political and the popular government will also weaken. Financial policy is primarily concerned with stabilising developments in demand for goods and services. Economic growth itself will create room for real growth in public spending. Growth in public expenditure, or more specifically in automatic expenditure growth, is increasing every year. If this growth continues with the same strength in the years to come, it will capture much of the fiscal space created by increased value creation. According to the Christian People's Party's view, addressing this situation is one of the really big challenges in the near future. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that it should be attractive to work. We are overconfident that through different positive tools it must be possible to stimulate a greater degree of combination between work and social security and work and retirement, for part-time work, and that training needs to be facilitated so that more people can get into work. In the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that the Government has changed the direction of monetary policy, so that it is directed towards an inflation target that will be close to 2.5 p.m. over time. As we consider it, this will not in practice lead to major changes in monetary policy. Rather, it must be defined as a confirmation of a monetary policy that has already been pursued. A balanced economic development with a low price and cost growth is one of the drivers of stability in exchange rates. The Christian People's Party believes that we have to be careful about putting too large a burden on monetary policy, because it can over time lead to the strengthening of the crown, which in turn will weaken the competitive sector. In order to safeguard competitive potential, the growth of prices and costs should be reduced to the level of our trading partners. This is also necessary to avoid a strangely high interest rate. As is well known, interest increases are highly unsolvable, both for individuals and business. The Christian People's Party wants to pursue income policy cooperation between the state and the social partners. Despite the weak side, this has worked very hard in recent years to stabilise domestic economic developments and to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. However, it is important to exercise caution so that income policy cooperation does not lead to strong leadership in the freedom of action of elected bodies. However, the gap in income policy cooperation between different groups in society has increased in recent years. Therefore, it must be an objective that this cooperation over the coming long-term programming period can lead to a smoother development of income between different groups. Through fiscal policy, Stortinget has a powerful tool to help both to smooth out/distribute and to influence the business environment. There is no doubt that stable and sustainable tax elements create trust and security and will contribute in a good way to creativity, further development and innovation. So stability and predictability become important keywords. We want the tax system to function continuously to stimulate both the development and the renewal of business. Time has drilled the mark of rapid conversion. This sets new requirements for tax laws and regulations. Internet trade and the free movement of capital are examples of the fact that we cannot think in isolation only of domestic conditions, but that international competitiveness also applies to the public when we, for example. talk about tax laws and regulations. The Christian People's Party has previously taken initiatives to remove the property tax on so-called industrial assets, or working capital. I'm not going to hide that we were disappointed when this wasn't closed to the state budget for the current year, but we thought the proposal that was leading was so bad that we couldn't go for it. But we haven't added it to it yet. Otherwise, in the Christian People's Party, we are very concerned about the principle that green taxes should gradually become more and more implemented in our tax system. In the context of the budgetary agreement for the current year between the Centre Party and the Labour Party, it was decided that a new tax model should be developed, including: shall be based on an approximation of taxes on income from employees and taxes on capital, on a fairer distribution and on neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and business. We saw at an early stage that if this new model were to be introduced from 1 January 2002, it would give an irresponsible short duration of treatment, without the possibility of wide participation by different actors. Early in our day, we chose to participate strongly in what was subsequently widely accepted by the Stortinget, namely that we used a year more to carve this new model together. In this way, we will ensure that both the business community and the trade union community are provided with well-established comments and input, and that there will otherwise be enough time for a thorough political treatment that can hopefully secure a broad political platform for the new tax model. We are pleased with the clear feedback from the business community that they have appreciated the fact that Stortinget chose to spend a little longer time on this work. We believe that good solutions to many major challenges lie in this that the different actors can participate in an interplay where everyone can make their comments and come up with different solutions. When the final decision is to be taken, it is to the seventh and last a responsibility for the Storting. However, it is important and valuable that everyone has been told before the process has come this far. I'm overconfident that this will give the best solutions. No one will lose on open processes. The process of the 2002–05 long-term programme has produced many interesting points of view and interesting points of view. It should be of interest to follow up on when this is to be translated into practical policy. From the Christian People's Party's side, we are forbidden to participate in good and constructive solutions to the many challenges that the Stortinget will face.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1334	The long-term programme is about how Norway can best meet its challenges in the future. It's also about how the parties will solve the problems facing the country. Fortunately, I think, it has crystallized itself in two directions. On the one hand, we have the right parties, with the Advance Party and the Right in the head, with the hope of support from the Christian People's Party and the Left. On the other hand, there is the Workers' Party, SV and maybe also the Center Party. Seeing through the rhetoric of the parties and finding out what they think in practical politics is no easy task for the ordinary voters. Maybe that's why there's as many as 30-40 pst. who have not decided on the lot to be chosen. Within this long-term programme that we are talking about today, there is a government statement. It's a least common multiple of the center pieces of what they want to do. The new Lightebu statement begins on page 101 of the setting, and each of the cooperating parties has got its heartache. The Christian People's Party has received the value base, the Left has received environmental development, and the Centre Party has received positive development of the districts. What is problematic is what has not been dealt with in this declaration of government. In fact, there are important issues that you disagree with, including: the sick pay scheme and cash support, and there is no common understanding of what to say to voters. And I understand that the voters are very confused about choosing a government option that has not correctly decided on how such an important case for most people as the sickness pay scheme should be designed by a possible government option. For me, it also seems after the debate today that the centre parties do not really believe in their own declaration. But what worries me the most is whether the voters are fooling themselves into thinking that $40 million. At the same time, tax relief also means that the welfare state with which we are accustomed is still going to exist. In this regard, I would like to focus on women and ask the question: what really gives women freedom? It is no secret that a good welfare state, a good provision of care for children and a labour market that takes account of qualifications, parental leave and actually having young children attracts women. We boast in Norway that we have a high birth rate, while we have many women out in paid employment. And the women answer when we ask them, that they give birth to many children, that they have security, that they have a job, and they feel that the children are taken care of when they are at work, and thus they also dare to bet on a professional life. The experience of Sweden frightens me when it was felt in the 1990s that an increase in unemployment, especially for young people and for people with low education, at the same time as a reduction in the well-being of families, led for the first time to a decrease in birth rates for women, from 2.1 children per year. women in 1992 to about 1.5 in 1997. Women know that freedom of choice lies in the welfare state. And I'm concerned about what kind of freedom the right-hand side offers just the women. When the answer is NOK 40 billion in tax bills, it means almost nothing to low-paid women. It's not the ones that get the tax. They offer cash support, often to women who are at home anyway, who are a scheme that about half of the population don't want. They offer a health pay scheme that they call the world's most expensive, and that we call the world's best on the left, and that we're going to fight with what it's going to be to keep. But that means for women, who have the highest sickness absence, that they lose absolutely the most money. They also offer a labour market where competition, overtime and running at all times of the day are a mark of good performance. Women choose differently and may then be forced to say no to professional participation in order just to take care of the family, because the public offers are not available. This is a society I hope you see all the danger signals at, because the right forces of Norwegian politics do want equal participation of women and men in political life. Or do they add up to practical solutions that make it impossible for women?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1355	The right-hand side says, "That's enough." But more people in this room think it's an untimely mass from the Right when we're talking about reducing taxes and cutting taxes. Especially the Working Party thinks so. They claim that the Right will frustrate the welfare state if the tax and tax levels are not maintained, with little reservation that the peak tax entry point is slightly too low. The Chairman of the Financial Committee said in a row today that the Workers' Party would not be in the competition for lower taxes. He also did not touch this important area in his main post. He thus says that the Workers' Party is satisfied with the level of taxes and charges we have today. The tax burden has now clearly reached the tolerance limit and more than that. Even several of the party's own representatives here at Stortinget have expressed this. Candidate No. seven on the Labour Party's list of major elections in Oslo are now going into the media and are asking the people of the country to send him proposals for fees to be removed. Should believe if he doesn't get a 'run' on his e-mail. He will even contribute to the creation of the ‘New Workers’ Party’, which will get rid of the rumor as a boring party of rules and charges. The insurrection is in progress, even within the Workers' Party. But it seems that the government is now joining in to good old Erik Brofoss' statements when he was Minister of Finance, and that they will make them their own. It's pretty funny what people can tolerate by taxes, once they've just turned to them, he said. The budget agreement entered into for the current year resulted in a total increase in the country’s population of a total of DKK 12 billion in tax increases and, in addition, a VAT reform – which the Government has to assume the primary responsibility for. The country has had a VAT reform which is very poorly prepared and which has not been consulted among those affected by the reform. This has led to a storm of protests, and the government has been on the waving front in the most controversial areas. It is an urgent work that, among other things, provide the many small businesses that are now undergoing the reform with little time to prepare, a reform that requires voluntary organisations to carry out even more effectively than today, a reform that requires those who voluntarily assume a position of trust to be trained as accounting officers in order to be able to deal with and comply with the many complex laws and regulations — otherwise the purchase of such services will result in even more effort, as they are also far more expensive than today. This, in turn, will make it much more difficult to get people to take on such positions voluntarily. Obviously, this has become enough for someone and everyone, and not just for the Garva right-wing people. Transitional arrangements and consequences were clearly uninteresting for the Government to investigate. The protests show it. Therefore, in the context of the revised national budget, the right will again propose a postponement of the reform. When the national cash register runs out of money, people begin to wonder that it will be necessary then to increase the tax and tax burden. They ask themselves: is it necessary to have so many and so high charges to maintain the welfare state we have – a welfare state that does not function satisfactorily, with long health cows, cows of children for kindergartens, poor school buildings, inadequate education and long prison queues? I could keep going indefinitely. How much is going on in pure bureaucracy? And they ask, is it the state that is the best manager of our money? They ask that Norway is at the top of the world, so that they have to pay more than seven months’ wages and salaries in taxes and taxes. It's as well-known as only twelve of them. Is there anything to wonder about the dissatisfaction when the state is unable to provide satisfactory welfare services for those who really need it? Another thing is that high charges are most unsocial. They hit them with the lowest income the hardest. Public sector reform is needed. It is good that the Government wants to increase efficiency in order to increase the scope of action at all levels, that the Government wants organisation and service production to be based on the needs of users. However, it appears that the Government is paralysed by concrete proposals on how to take account of the needs of users and how the public sector can become more efficient. It is good that the government will have a prescription and work for a simpler regulation, but should this only result in the bakers not paying a fee on a marzipan cap on the cake and the decoration on top, but still had to pay a marzipan fee for another purpose, but only reported twice a year, it is not that strange simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15.ana.ud2234e1376	The time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that we now cancel this morning's meeting and that a new meeting be held at 9 p.m. 18 with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg as the first speaker – and see it as a confession. Before the President cancels the meeting, the President will inform you that the representative Siri Frost Sterri, who has authorized us, has once again taken his seat.
