ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e33	From the representative of Terje Johansen, there is an application for welfare leave from 17 January to 25 January. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The application will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The Vara representative, Borghild Tenden, is called to meet during the leave period.3. Borghild Tenden is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e63	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes, the other parties 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e70	Document No The 8 proposal we are discussing today addresses an important relationship with Norwegian industrial activities, namely the way people exploit other living beings to ensure income and well-being. Without a special relationship with Norwegian fur nutrition, I would argue that we see enough examples of the necessity and importance of these questions at all times being raised in the public debate. The focus this time on Norwegian fur nutrition has to be tolerated, because this industry is not worthy of the fact that the modes of operation cannot be defended against a large proportion of the population. In this context, it is worth noting that the Ministry of Agriculture's ethics committee in 1994, i.e. six years ago, pointed out that the forms of operation used at that time could not be defended if decisive emphasis was placed on the welfare of the animals. When this is said, it must also be said that we are talking about an industry that is not insignificant in parts of District Norway. It is also necessary to have that in mind in this debate. This is not least because traditional rural agriculture is under increasing pressure. The need to go new ways, with new products and new ways of doing things will only increase in the time to come. In the Agriculture Communication, the Government of Bondevik pointed out that, in the future, primary industries would not be a sufficient basis for maintaining housing and employment in rural areas, and that attention had to be paid to measures which, together with primary industries, could help to strengthen local communities. A unanimous committee shared this assessment and pointed to that role among others. fur animal nutrition could contribute to the maintenance of farm use through extensive combined farming. The Committee also referred to the importance of the fur animal industry as a resource exploiter of by-products and waste from fish farming and the fishing and slaughterhouse industries and considered that this consideration should be given to the national framework conditions. In view of this, it is safe to conclude that the Committee has in no way taken the view that fur animal nutrition should be discontinued, rather on the contrary. However, this does not mean that the operating modes should be as they are today. In this area, too, a continuous process must be carried out in order to find the best possible forms of operation to meet the needs of the animals. As I read Document No. The 8-proposal, it is also not proposed here on winding-up. The objective is limited to improving unlucky operating practices. It is also worth noting that the industry itself has taken an offensive view of these issues. A quality assurance programme with particular regard to animal welfare and the environment is now being implemented in cooperation with the State's animal health surveillance and local veterinarians. As demonstrated by the suspension, the Ministry has decided to start work with a view to a broad review of relationships between different types of animal husbandry and animal welfare. The work will also cover the feeding of fur animals. The result will be presented to Stortinget in the form of a separate messaging message. In the light of this, the Committee: The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. For the same reason, I do not think it appropriate to go into more detail about the facts of the case in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e85	There has been a recent debate on the appropriateness of the continuation of fur animal nutrition and the existence of an animal protection problem. That's why it's okay that the Socialist Left Party has raised the issue, and that there's a focus on whether there's a need to change the regulation on the keeping of fur animals. Many individuals and stakeholder organisations have made representations about the feeding of fur animals and animal welfare. On the one hand, we have Norway's Fur Animal Species, which emphasizes that Norwegian fur industry prioritises the animals' woes and welfare. And, as the rapporteur also pointed out, breeders are involved in a quality assurance programme where part of the work consists of guidance on animal welfare and animal welfare. In addition, thorough inspections are carried out of the operational conditions of each fur zoo. Forty veterinarians are involved in this work, as many of them believe to be groundbreaking in Norwegian livestock farming. The industry also has its own Animal Welfare Action and Working Group. The main objective is to seek new knowledge and put research results into life in order to improve the quality of farming. Therefore, Norwegian fur nutrition considers that significant efforts are being made to prioritize animals' welfare and well-being. Targeted work undertaken over many years has provided animals with good health and reproduction, as well as good growth and development. In the last ten years, there has been a significant improvement in farming practices, and fur animals are doing well in most areas, although, of course, there is an improvement potential, says breeders from their point of view. On the other hand, we have animal protection, which has a number of critical remarks for today's fur farming. There are no good arguments for maintaining fur animal nutrition, they believe. It is an environmental problem, a diplomatic problem, costs taxpayers and is an animal protection problem, says Animal Protection in Norway. And they claim it's high time to wind up this industry here at home. The Party wants strict legislation to ensure that animals are treated with due care. We therefore support the unanimous opinion of the Committee that the proposal be annexed to the protocol, and the reason why the issues raised will be dealt with on a broad basis in the form of a big message to be presented to the Stortinget next year. We agree that the time is ripe for an investigation and a thorough treatment of the issues associated with ethically acceptable animal husbandry. Such a review has not been carried out since the adoption of the Animal Protection Act in 1974. We meet the outcome of this work to be carried out. The subsequent discussion by the Industry Committee and the Storting will show whether there is a need to amend legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e96	The proposal submitted to the Economic and Social Committee for consideration is in its form very moderate and refers only to matters referred to by the Ministry of Agriculture's own ethics committee. It can be said that the proposal only facilitates that the Ministry of Agriculture is following the advice they themselves have asked for. Section 2 of the Animal Protection Act states that animals should be at risk and taken into account instinct and natural cravings in the animal. And it's quite obvious that animals that are placed in cages and lose their chance of natural behavior, don't have it as the Animal Protection Act says animals should have it. I also note that today's regulation on the keeping of fur animals came into force on 1 October 1998 and that the regulation is based on the revised European Council recommendation. According to the Council of Europe's recommendations, breaking the neck of the mink after previous electrical stunning should only be done if other methods are not available. In Norway, however, this is a very common method. In the case of reefs, electrodes are usually killed by introduction into the mouth and end-arm opening, upon which the animal dies of the current. As the author of the proposal, I note that the Minister of Agriculture, in his letter to the Economic and Social Committee, says that it should: ‘starts work with a view to a broad review of relationships between different types of animal husbandry and animal welfare where the result is presented in the form of a wholesale notification during 2002’. That is a good initiative. However, there is no reason why we should not already be able to address the fur industry. The signs that animals suffer from overload, and that the conditions for the different animals should be improved, are so clear and strong that one should not wait to do anything about it until the overall notification is available. I would also like to refer to various items in the media, including: on TV 2, with reports on mink and other fur breeding. The industry receives approx. Eighty million. in State aid on an annual basis, and without the aid at least large parts of the industry could not have survived. I notice that Gunnar Breimo is drawing up that perspective related to the district industry. But if you think you'd spent 70, 80, or maybe 90 million. in rural areas other than fur animal feeding, there is reasonable reason to believe that the effect would have been at least as good, perhaps better than that achieved in fur breeding. If you think of it as used, for example. for organic farming, the use of resources that would have been far better than what is currently achieved through the breeding of fur animals would also have been ethical. I registered that the daughter of Paul McCartney had said that the one who dresses the fur best is the animal that originally wears it. And that's a consideration that at least I'd say I fully agree with. I note that while there is a common position in the Swedish Ministry of Agriculture on the need to change the cultivation of fur as it is today and to create much better conditions for animals, there may be differing views on whether the industry as a food will continue to exist in the future. My personal view of it is that at least I disagree with the position taken by Gunnar Breimo, namely that it is a district industry that needs to be ensured further, possibly further development. Instead, I believe that the focus should be on other types of district industries, that it should be an objective to eliminate fur animal nutrition in its present form and that it should be replaced by entirely different industries in the long term, so that Norway can well become a leading country in the world — without this kind of fur animal nutrition at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e116	Norway has had and has an ambition to be at the forefront of international animal protection work. It's been important to us not least because we think it tells something about the ethical standard in general in a society. We use a lot of force when we are trying internationally to defend our right to protect our own agriculture, for example. is the argument related to a high animal protection standard. I think the situation has been that we've been very good at animal protection. I also believe that the situation is that we are well placed at international level in relation to animal protection. At the same time, we see very clearly, not least in Europe, that this is an area where it happens very very very quickly. The fact that we have had a good standard in this area, and that we are reasonably satisfied with the standard we have today, must not be an incentive to rest on our laurels. The last time we had a broad review of the animal protection situation was, as also the representative Hedstrom was involved, in adopting the Animal Protection Act in 1974. So it's going to be a long time since we had a total review. Much has happened since 1974. Not least, we have gained a lot of new knowledge about the behaviour of animals and how to facilitate good animal protection work. Therefore, it is important that we update our knowledge and that we set up a new platform for animal protection work in Norway in the future. Animal protection and animal ethics occupy people. That's good. That's why we now have a bunch of animal protection batteries going on, including in this room. Let me just briefly mention fur animals, which we are now discussing. We have just discussed reindeer drift and questions about castration of pure and pig. Not long ago we had a debate about the use of a ring in the nose on pigs. We have a debate about allowing increased imports of snakes and lizards and alien species. We have just dealt with a law on breeding of dangerous dogs. We have a debate all the time on partridges. In the last few days, we have had a debate on the transport of animals. This shows that there are ongoing debates on animal protection. What matters to me is that we not only continue to have individual debates, but now we dare to stop and put it all into context, update our knowledge, add a new ethical platform and on that basis assess whether we need to revise the Animal Protection Act, and in which case in which areas the need is greater. In my opinion, such a big message in relation to the theme we have today, fur animals, will first have to be about whether keeping farmed animals for fur is ethically acceptable, or whether farm animal husbandry will only be acceptable if you focus on producing food. If we conclude, even after a new ethical platform has been established, that keeping animals for fur is acceptable, then debate No. 2 is about what kind of frame we're going to put around that animal husbandry to get it animal welfare good enough. Debates of the European Parliament 3 is about, if we're going to have fur animals according to new animal protection regulations, where in the country it's going to happen. Then the budget debate comes into context. Just such a way of thinking, and just such a way of organising the debate, we will aim to – by working on this big message throughout the year we are now in, with the aim of presenting it as early as possible in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e129	Norwegian fur animal husbandry is operated in accordance with new regulations. They're two years old. They comply with today's animal protection law, and they were made in good time after the critical opinions of the Animal Ethics Council became known. The agricultural message and its setting are less than a year old. The Committee was then aware that fur animal husbandry is carried out in cages. The Committee was familiar with the current operating modes. This is about the predictability of traders, if in the debate to be held in the context of a new communication on animal protection, one is to ask whether fur-farming is to be carried out in Norway. I do not think there is any reason to raise a new debate on it now, but of course: if you are going to review the terms, in the regulations on how to drive it, it must be discussed. I believe there is reason to say that Norwegian livestock keepers operate within the scope of the Animal Protection Act, and the types of livestock we have today, I think I should be able to continue. Those who have invested in those industries deserve the predictability of such an attitude from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e138	No more people have asked for the word. [[Footing, see page 1549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e154	The background for this interpellation should be clear from the text, as the President has just read. I find it most timely to take up this interpellation, because it's actually 18 years ago that there was an interpellation about quacking in the Storting. It was an interpellation from the representative Bjørnø on 3 May 1983. It was after a decision was taken in the International Whaling Commission on Stoppages in all Whaling internationally, which Norway reserved itself against – it is still at hand. That was a one-sided big deal. Everyone who had the floor agreed with the policy. The Norwegian resource management policy has also been firm in terms of suffocation, and there has been full consensus in this room. I hope, therefore, that when this debate is over, those who had to speak have expressed their agreement on the issue of resource management this time too. I have to draw some historical lines. The law of strangulation came back in 1939, and the wording was one of the most important elements to take care of the products and to take full advantage of the pain. It was important – and, of course, that this should be taken care of with the killing and the protection of animals. We've been in Norway since the beginning of the 1930s. And when I'm talking about strangulation, it's just the quack that I'm concentrating on. There are about 80 different types of qualifications around the world, but I'm only going to take the wave wave wave, which I started at the age of eight. We're not going to care about the other grades. When the ban came in 1982, as a great surprise to the Norwegian delegation, Norway protested. We went home, and we got that debate here in Stortinget. Then you left yourself on a phase-out line. It was then time to phase out the suffocation, it was to be stopped. A temporary ban was also adopted in Norway. But after the pressure from Norway’s Small Quail Prisoner Team, in which I was the President at the time – by the way, it was not Norway’s Small Quail Prisoner Team at the time, it was called Nordland’s Small Quail Prisoner Team – we started a research programme, and in cooperation with political authorities it was established that there was a basis for continued fishing. So we've increased the catch since it was adopted in 1992. The Brundtland government then put forward proposals – I was myself at that meeting in England where it was decided that they would start fishing. I honestly thought that he who was the delegation leader at the time should have done in his pants, because it was a serious decision, and I must say that it was quite unusual that a Norwegian ambassador could go into an international meeting and hit the table and say that we are starting fishing anyway. It was a brave decision. Since 1992, we have had a gradual increase in quotas. And we've been careful, we've been observant. As shown by the interpellation here, the population is estimated to be 112,000 in 1995. This is mammals. They're multiplying. They don't use any kind of contraception, either condoms or pills or anything, so they multiply. Today, the population has undoubtedly risen to 126 000 animals. That means that 30 000 new torments are born every year. 30,000 new animals each year come to the world! Even so, you put yourself on a line and you say we're going to catch only 549 animals in the year of the 30,000 that are born. Yes, that's caution. It's, in my opinion, obscurity. It's internationally accepted by 100 different scientists that the population is growing by 2 pst. So 2 500 animals per. years. It is internationally accepted that it is the growth of the population. We're talking about sustainable harvesting. What kind of sustainable harvest are we talking about when we're going to catch only 549 animals? It has nothing to do with reality. It's a transversal that's almost ridiculous. In addition, the models say that if you catch too many female quarters of these animals, it has to be relevant to the quotas. If you caught only female quails of the 549 animals, it didn't matter. Then you start to draw out a 'tuning', that is, a precautionary margin – I have to explain what 'tuning' is for something. It's the same thing as if you're going to go to the Gardermo in the rush hour, you have to put in a little extra time to get to the plane. If you drive at 1:00 p.m. 4 in the morning, it's completely safe, then you don't have to enter a margin of caution. It is ‘tuning’ – to calculate prudence. ‘Tuning’ has nothing to do with the quota when the population of at least 2500 animals is growing. Then the question is, what is the reason for getting at this level? Who's to be taken? Is the protest industry to be taken care of by bureaucrats in some department of another country, or what is the reason for this? When I say this, it's because I have to point to the protest industry. We have experienced that the fear of self is gone. We are not self-afraid, but we are meeting about self-afraid – a meeting after a meeting about self-afraid. And this is where it has to be caught. The only way to catch a cell is to club it in the shoulder or shoot it. It's not possible to hold meetings about this – it's not getting rid of any cell. Only the selenium in the east ice cream eats 3.5 million. tonnes. The coastal population eats 1.8 million. tonnes, as much as the Norwegian fisheries are concerned. And we sit in meetings and discuss. That is what we are doing, and we are under pressure from the protest industry. I'm going to spend a little bit of time on WWF, for example. WWF was in its time a driver and a premiscuous supplier and led campaigns to claim that the wave wave was about to be eradicated along the Norwegian coast, to get it on the CITES list. What did that lead to? Tens of millions of dollars in expenses. Over 100 million. It has cost the Norwegian authorities to prove that they were wrong. And that it is proven to be raised beyond doubt, but still it is claimed from the team that the stock is threatened and that the catch should cease. In the last year’s IWC meeting, they managed to claim that quail meat and bacon were contaminated by chemicals and environmental toxins, a claim for which there is no scientific evidence. On the contrary, scientific studies have shown the opposite. I have to mention that on 5 January this year Kåre Olerud, Information Manager of the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature, performed on TV and produced a report on PCBs that was proven to be incorrect. And when he was exposed to an open camera, he said, "Yes, it's not that accurate." The main thing is that we're in focus and get media coverage. Why? Money! It's to get money in the cash register. That's why I call this bunch the protest industry, because that's exactly what they are. Another example is Greenpeace, which was the driver to end the self-anxiety. They claimed that the capture of seals was not sustainable. What were the consequences? The traditional self-growth industry has almost been wiped out, which has also happened in both Canada and Greenland. They were wrong, and it's proven that they were wrong. Here's the example, and I'll come back with more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e182	I would first like to say that it is clear that the two wave whale populations on which we are fishing are in good condition. At the same time, Norwegian whale policy has been firm since we started to normalize our whaling at the end of the 1980s. Long-term and consistent policies in this area have been pursued over time. Norwegian whaling policy is based on Norway’s right to manage and harvest nature’s resources — based on a rational and scientific basis. Norway is a strong supporter of the principle of sustainable use of natural resources, based on scientific evidence and the need for multi-population management. It is essential to exploit, within the necessary limits, stocks that can withstand harvesting. Otherwise, the whole principle of sustainability could be undermined. As far as Norway is concerned, the whale is also more than just whales. It has been a long-term goal to normalise the conditions surrounding the Norwegian whaling. Furthermore, it has been provided that Norwegian-based solutions are to be sought in the whale case by working within relevant management organisations. Catch of major whales has been regulated by the International Whaling Commission, IWC. The IWC was established to ensure the sustainable management of whale resources based on scientific data. In 1982, the IWC adopted a moratorium, a ban on normal whaling, against which Norway reserved itself. At the same time as the introduction of the moratorium, the IWC asked its Scientific Committee to develop a new management procedure for whaling, the so-called RMP. When the work was done, however, the IWC would not cancel the moratorium and initiate the procedure. However, Norway uses the procedure for calculating the quota for wave whales. And it must be emphasised that this is a very conservative quota regulation model. One of several mechanisms to ensure against over-taxation is the so-called 'tuning level', the level of taxation or protection. The higher the level of taxation applied, the less allowances will be. The Scientific Committee made estimates at level 0.72-0.60 and found that within this range there was adequate protection security. The Whaling Commission adopted a resolution specifying the use of the level 0,72 but Norway reserved itself against this during the vote. Norway has made it clear on several occasions that we have not committed ourselves to this point. However, the level 0.72 has so far been used in determining our allowances. Due to the corrections to the calculation programme used for the setting of allowances, the annual base quota for wavy whales was reduced by approx. 10 pst. from 2000. We were also faced with a problem for 2001 which resulted in a reduction in the quota, with Norway starting to take account of the gender distribution of catches, as required by the IWC management procedure. A review of the catch data has shown that during the last five-year period, we have had a large excess of females in the catches. In the North-East Atlantic area, 77 pst. of the catches have been females. Jan Mayen has 90 pst. of the catches have been females. As I have said, and as the representative Bastesen was involved, this has resulted in further reductions in allowances. In 2001, we also faced another challenge. We couldn't increase the total quota through transfers of unused allowances from previous years, as we've been able to do before. In order to maintain a whale quota of the last year's catch result as a minimum, the quota fixing for 2001 decided to change the level of taxation within the margin of full security. This implies an increase in taxation. After an overall assessment, we chose to set a level of taxation around the middle of the safe range, and the quota was set at ‘tuning level’ of 0.66. This implies a total quota for next year's catch of 549 animals. The quota is allocated, as usual, to fishing areas. This means 127 animals in the North Sea, 11 animals in the West fjord, 260 animals in the Barents Sea, 120 animals at Svalbard and 31 animals at Jan Mayen. I would point out that the quota set for the year is still higher than what has actually been caught compared to the years following the reopening of the catch, with the exception of 1998 and 1999. In addition, I would like to point out that the allocation of the quota to the fishing regions is positive, by allowing a greater share of the quota to be taken in the northern fishing regions, and a smaller part in particular in the North Sea. Traditionally, there has been the greatest interest among whale-catchers in operating in the north. In concrete terms, I would like to mention that there is an increase in the quota for fishing areas in the Barents Sea and at Svalbard. For the North Sea, Jan Mayen and West Fjord fishing areas, the quota has been reduced. Overall, this should allow for better catch yields for the prisoners. The principle of sustainable management has not been abandoned. It is also not correct to say that the Government has chosen a strategy for phasing out the Norwegian whaling. As regards the issue of the export of wafer products, I would like to refer to the consideration of Document No by the Economic and Social Committee. 8:79 for 1999-2000. The document requests that the Government immediately suspend Norway’s self-imposed export ban on wafer products. I have been invited to a committee hearing on this occasion, and of course I have accepted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e216	I made a comment on the influence of protest organisations in this policy. Just to repeat: the birth of 30,000 new torments every year is a biological fact that is accepted by all researchers, also internationally. The population usually consists of half females and half males, and half of the females usually become pregnant and have one young person every year. That's how biology works. So I have good evidence that the number is right – at least approximately right. I mentioned WWF. Yes, WWF has been one of the most angry and worst opponents we've ever fought, internationally. I mentioned as an example both sales and pain. They have had to lay down large communities both in Greenland and in Canada because of the protests that have taken place. In Africa, for example, they have loose on the elephant – to draw the example to something completely different. CITES has even gone in and found out that the elephant to be saved is not endangered, but WWF claims the opposite. This is an organisation that is currently being honoured as a consultant in the Ministry of Fisheries. We'll give over five million. kr to this organisation above the State budget. They sit as advisers in the inner circles, those who have been the worst opponents of the sustainable harvesting of all organizations. I must say I was startled when I found out. And they're used as advisers and as a reference group to evaluate the self-anxiety, and otherwise also the quacking, I assume. It's not surprising that the quotas are being lowered. It's not surprising that we get a quota of 549 animals. We could have a quota of 2,000 animals, and even the population had grown with guaranteed good margins. Then the Minister for Fisheries is talking about 'tuning' and being careful. Yes, that is, in my opinion, a contradiction. It has nothing to do with sustainable harvesting, nothing to do with reducing stocks so that we can get fishing and exploit the other fishing resources to do. There is simply a game of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e223	When discussing the whale thing, it is in many ways important to be aware that this is a matter to which strong feelings are attached. In fact, not everything done in the sphere of whaling worldwide is rational, from a resource management point of view. There are no rational approaches to this issue; it is largely based on emotions. And you might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I don't like it, but in any case, we have to deal with the fact that in the organisations that have been given this responsibility, such positions count heavily. We have had a long-term desire to bring about a normalization of our relationship with these organizations and with the whaling. That is why we have chosen the strategies we have chosen. We have chosen to use the guidance that comes from these organizations, but use it our way, within what we perceive as sound resource management. You might have gone beyond this if you were to just look at biology. But I believe that our case would have been of little use to us moving very far away from what, after all, are professional assessments made by these organisations. That it's a careful biological adaptation, I can agree, but it can be a wise political adjustment to achieve something in a longer perspective – and that's what we need – I want to emphasise with strength. In the case of organisations working in this system – WWF is mentioned as an example, and there are others – they exist in Norway. They exist everywhere. They are not used as advisers in the Ministry of Fisheries. We don't take any advice from these. To the extent that we consult with people about whaling, it concerns Norway's Fiskarlag, Norway's Small Quail Capture Team and other relevant organisations in the whaling industry. That they have a position in other departments in other areas of environmental policy, where they do an important job, I do not dispute at all. We have a tradition of working closely with the whaling industry's organisations. We have done that when it comes to setting allowances, we do that in the annual meetings of the IWC, and we do that when we discuss important questions, such as: this with the possible lifting of the self-imposed export ban. It's a procedure that's been fruitful to us. I also believe that it has been fruitful for the matter, and that it is the most important track we are going to pursue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e234	Low catch quotas and self-imposed export bans, which are at least provisionally maintained by the Government, are policies distant from the Progress Party. We believe that Norway's self-imposed export ban on wavy products should be lifted without delay, and we have a proposal on this which is under consideration in the nutrition committee. As the Council of State was involved in its statement, he shall meet in the Committee and inform it of the matter and of the Government's views and progress on this matter. We welcome this with great interest. Fear of strong international reactions is thought to be exaggerated, including: because Norway is increasingly gaining international recognition for its sustainable whaling. What should be done in parallel is to inform about realities through campaigns. To date, the main obstacle to sensible taxation has been international opinion, the positions of the International Whaling Commission and various environmental protection organisations. It is therefore appropriate to organise a campaign for increased understanding of sailing and whaling by means of Norwegian foreign stations and professional information companies. In its alternative draft budget for the current year, the Progress Party has put forward proposals to set aside 50 million. kr for such a campaign. There is a great deal of scientific consensus on this issue. For many years, safe stock assessments have been carried out. By resuming the catch and activating the reservation in Norway, following the International Whaling Commission's decision on a commercial whaling ban in 1982, a contribution has been made to raising awareness among IWC members of the mandate of the Commission: to promote sustainable management of whaling. The reality today is that the population of marine mammals is in significant growth and is immersing heavily in fish stocks. Whales and seals consume large amounts of biomass, including commercially interesting fish species. If Norway is to realise the potential for growth within fisheries, conditions need to be facilitated, and increased taxation of whales and seals must be said to be a prerequisite for doing so. That's why it's a very central problem. The question of sustainable whaling, trade and exports is essentially one of following the principles set out in Agenda 21. We are talking first and foremost about sustainable harvesting, but also about economic development, jobs and the maintenance of a living coastal culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e247	There were strong reactions when the Minister for Fisheries published at the annual meeting in Svolvær how many animals could be taken by whaling, and that is really not a good thing. I was not present at the meeting myself, but I have read about some of the reactions. There were countless free and quite strong witnesses from the prisoners, and there was some great concern about the decision that had been made. In a way, I can see that. There will be such a distance between what the catching people themselves seem to be natural, based on the advice given by the researchers, and the quota they are allocated by the Government. I am fully aware that this is an internationally sensitive area. The Christian People's Party agrees that we should have sustainable development – it should just be lacking. It was an incredibly brave position that was taken by the government of Harlem Brundtland in its time, and the question that the catching people are now asking is whether you're going to turn it right. I've listened to the minister and I understand that it's not the way of thinking, but nevertheless I would point out that Lars Walløe, as far as I can see, is one of the government's advisers in these questions, says that we could have shot 3,000 wavy whales, but he is also in favour of a very restrictive line here and says that we could at least take out 1,200 animals. And then you end up with an opportunity to take out just 549 animals. You go back in relation to what was taken out the year before, and then my question to the minister is: what really is the reason? There are so many speculations when there is such a big gap between what the scientists are saying in this area and what the government is coming with. You can see that the opposite happens with respect to cod stocks. So you're willing to go in the opposite direction, you're going beyond what the researchers recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e254	The Harlem Brundtland government initiative to open up whaling in 1992 was positive. That was wise, and it was extremely bold in a situation where there was international big politics out of it. The volume and allowances of this catch must be determined on the basis of the stocks recorded in such a way as to have been agreed in international negotiations. The principle of sustainability is then satisfied. I think we've been careful enough. I think it's time for this interpellation to be taken up, because it has a significant signal effect if that's how the populations increase and we reduce the catch. The Nutrition Committee has repeatedly pointed out that the growth of marine mammals is worrying, based on the fish quotas remaining for harvesting by fishermen. That is a very important aspect of this debate. It is not enough to point out the misunderstanding that then arises, something has to be done about it. It is simply necessary to stimulate the capture of seals and whales within the quotas to be determined on the basis of the principle of sustainability. The size shall not determine the number of whales to be caught, but should the stock increase, the quotas should also increase. If that's not done, it must mean that we've caught too many whales before. I don't think we have. There should be sufficient comments in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e267	I'm recording that there's a consensus in the hall. Among those who have spoken, it is obvious that there is a consensus that policy in this area is firm. We will continue to reap from all resources in the sea in a sustainable way. There must be a useful signal that the Minister for Fisheries can take with him when one is about to discuss the issue of exports. There is no reason to doubt that Stortinget is the forum that is not holding back on the export issue. There shall be a hectic round of meetings – the Council of State shall report to the Economic and Social Committee, there shall be meetings with the industry on 16 and there shall be a number of other meetings. I hope now that decisions on exports are taken, because at least there is no political opposition to this in the Stortinget – it should be clear after this debate. And then it only remains to have the same political courage and determination as the Harlem Brundtland government had in 1992. There's a remarkable situation: we're legally catching pain from the sea, but we're not going to be able to sell this product the same way we sell other products we bring on land from the sea. This should be consumed here in the country – it should only be for us. It's incomprehensible to me. I understand that the quotas are set low if we're still going to eat these products only in Norway, but it's obvious that there's a lot of money to pick up for District Norway, for the workplaces and for whole areas if we could normalize this and come back to a catch level that we were at in the 1980s, back to a number of 1,800 – 1,900 animals that we caught before. It would amount to a few hundred million in income – not only for the benefit of those working on it, but also for the country as a whole. I thank all those who have participated, and hope that we can now go further together.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e278	It was Jan Sahl who made me take the floor. I can confirm that there were significant reactions at the meeting on the setting of the year's allowances. There were some language flowers that are not suitable for reproduction, and there was a great deal of experience in it all. But what I want to say is that there is a difference between the approaches you can have to the size of the whale quota based on normal resource management procedures and the procedures adopted by the Whaling Commission. You've been at a very high level of protection, and if you use these methods, which we've chosen to do, it's going to have such consequences that I've explained. When the representative Bastesen says that our goal is to normalize the catch, I would say that is the target, but then we have to choose a strategy that is within the playing rules that apply and that should be able to give us the result we want in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e287	So the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e293	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e310	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-11.ana.ud1457e319	There is no record available.
