ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e87	The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e90	On behalf of the representative Steinar Bastesen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on measures that can help fewer young people to fall out of work through early retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e95	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e98	I would like to make proposals on behalf of Odd Roger Enoxsen and myself on the reorganization of the state ownership of companies that are organised as limited liability companies and are engaged in business activities. Then I would like to ask that this proposal be dealt with by Stortinget in accordance with point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e128	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party 10 minutes each, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e139	We're dealing with today's St. Report. No 24, The Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, while we are dealing with Document No. 8:38, from Jan Petersen, Jan Tore Sanner and Bent Höie, on the action plan for the control of environmental pollution PCB. The working party has strong ambitions for environmental protection work in Norway. We want Norway to be a leading country in environmental policy. A good environment is important both for people's health and well-being. One of the most serious environmental problems today is changes in the climate caused by emissions from the combustion of, inter alia: oil and coal. The international climate negotiations are in a very demanding and important phase. The government is actively working to get the negotiations back on track. The aim is to have a binding agreement as soon as possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrialised countries. Until such an agreement is in place, effective climate action will be continued in Norway. This will be discussed in the forthcoming Green Paper on climate policy instruments. The big message we are dealing with today is a follow-up to the previous announcement of October 2000. At the time, the Committee agreed on most of the issues and, in fact, the Committee broadly agrees with the Government in most areas also in this position. This is a very good sign of environmental policy in the future. Once again, the centre parties and the Workers' Party are closest to each other in environmental policy. It is positive that the centre parties and SV in the setting are satisfied with the work done so far by the Government to report back on the status and further plans for environmental work in different areas. The entire Committee supports the principles of sustainable development where today's needs are met without jeopardising the potential of future generations to meet their needs and to care for the diversity of life on earth. We also believe that these objectives should contribute to strengthening an overall environmental protection policy in which municipalities and business become even better partners in the work on local environmental challenges. We need a common promise to preserve our cultural memories and environments in the future. A stepping-up plan has been launched through the annual budgets, in addition to a cultural memory fund, inter alia. reduces the annual loss of cultural memories from 1 pst. to 1⁄2 pst. until 2008. Norway is a small country, and we can be proud to have four areas on UNESCO's cultural heritage list. If what we're all hoping for, in a few years we can get the fifth area on the list. A beautiful archipelago area in Vega municipality in Nordland can be equated with, among others. Great Wall in China, Anthony Island in Canada, etc. The challenges on the environment are many. Last winter many ship sharks showed that the need for a review of today’s contingency plans is necessary. It is necessary to clarify definitions of the responsibilities of shipwreck clearance. The Government has announced an action plan in the autumn of 2001 assessing the current division of tasks, and already in the revised national budget for 2001, the Government proposes a strengthening of 2 million. kr to the State Oil Preparedness with special focus on North Norway. We must take care of our seas, and the Workers' Party will formulate an offensive policy for a clean marine environment. The government has signalled that the next biggest report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state will contain a comprehensive policy for the management of marine and coastal areas. The year 2000/2001 will go into history as a major victory for nature and the environment. After almost a century of large hydropower expansions in this country, the time has come to slow down for new, large hydropower expansions. The Prime Minister's New Year speech was not to be misunderstood, and again it was the Workers' Party that went ahead to make a decision on a very important matter for the future. All the parties praised the Prime Minister for his position. That some parties in retrospect have run from their rosy review, we get to take note. That's a choice this year! We are also dealing with a Document No today. Eight proposals to draw up an action plan on the environment for PCBs during 2001. The proposal shall be supported by the Committee as a whole. PCBs and dioxins are some of the most dangerous pollutants, and they must therefore be banned or their use considerably reduced, see above. The Stockholm Convention on Environmental Toxins. Clean-up is a generation work and will cost about 30 billion kroner. The government has put in place a great deal of work in relation to these environmental problems and will present a plan for systematic work to clean up and eliminate the pollutants such as: threatens our fjords. So far, the state has gone in by 11 million. kr for a pilot project in the fjord at Sandefjord. There are many ‘old’ environmental sins, including PCBs, that have spread throughout the country, and there is a great need to clean up. Long-distance transport of PCBs with ocean currents is a major threat to the wildlife of arctic strata. There is also a need for monitoring, and the Government will have a national biodiversity monitoring programme in place during 2004. The Committee has been presented with all problems with windows containing PCBs manufactured between 1965 and 1975. The Committee asks the Government to find a solution to this matter as soon as possible so that these windows are properly collected and destroyed. The majority, all except the Workers' Party, want to have an investigation of the possibility of a private/public clean-up fund. The Labour Party does not agree with this proposal because we do not want to undermine the provisions of the pollution law. It is important to get each individual polluter to take his financial responsibility, while the landowner and the State must and must assume their responsibilities. Finally, I will consider the chapter on waste. Two large-scale communications have been submitted on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state where a possible amendment of the pollution law has been proposed. The majority, all except SV, agree with the Government in the proposed amendments to the law. Norway has been pursuing a good waste policy for the last ten years. The aim is to reduce the amount of waste destined for final treatment to 25 pst. by 2010. Today, approx. 50 pst. for final treatment. There shall be a good balance between the volume of waste generated and recovered, incinerated or landfilled. In the Communication, the Government, like the previous Government, proposes that businesses be given the opportunity to take care of their own waste, including wet organic waste. The working party believes that this can contribute to making even more responsible, and that this will produce better results in the form of less generated waste. It is important that a two-year transitional period be introduced before the entry into force of the amendment in order to allow municipalities, businesses, consumers, organisations and authorities to jointly identify solutions for legislative changes. In particular, it is important to clarify the relationship between municipalities and business in the legislative change that now appears to be coming. The majority believe that energy recovery incineration can be a beneficial end-treatment for parts of the waste. The batch of workers is not anti-combustion, but first waste for recycling must be sorted out before the rest of the waste is sent for incineration. The majority believe that the authorities should have overall management of combustion and combustion plants and that national and international emission requirements should be imposed. In the end, I would like to mention that the Government has promoted two key messages, one on biodiversity and one on outdoor life, which unfortunately are not dealt with during this majority period. In the outdoor communication, the Government proposes to wind up the State fishing fee on inland fishing. This has been addressed through work on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom and supported by the entire Committee. This shows that the Workers' Party is actually cleaning up the tax jungle in this country. So I'll refer to the eight Roman number decisions in the setting. The Workers' Party will vote against the II and VI of the Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e195	The representative, Torny Pedersen, was in his contribution to the creation of a cultural memory fund, and that's why I have a question for Pedersen. During the treatment of Innst. S. No 256 for 1999-2000, an overwhelming majority in the United Kingdom decided to ask the Government to come back by the end of 2000 with proposals for the creation of a cultural memory fund. At that time, the Working Party joined this process. Now we are in 2001, the cultural memory fund is not in place, and a minority in the committee, including the Christian People's Party, have then found the basis for pointing this out and asking that this be put in place by reminding the Government of the decisions that the Storting has actually made. Now the Workers' Party chooses not to participate in a proposal involving the creation of a cultural memory fund. I have the following question: Has the Workers' Party changed its position? Does it feel that the proposal of the other parties is such a strong criticism by the Government that you cannot participate in this? And point three: In what way will the Workers' Party Group ensure that the Government actually follows up the decision of the Storting at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e204	It is true that during the examination of the previous state of the state of the kingdom it was a unanimous committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which wanted to have a cultural memory fund. It's a very important thing. The working party helped to enter this into the previous state of the kingdom's environment setting. And we want it to become a reality. The main lines of environmental protection policy in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the country of which we are dealing are that there has been a short period of time between the notifications of the state of the state of the state of the environment and that there has been little time to implement some of the decisions taken. However, we point out that all the decisions taken during the examination of the previous state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state are to be implemented as quickly as possible. I want to say that we still believe that this fund will help private – not least – to get better opportunities to do a job that is actually intended for many in the case of cultural memories. We know that there is a loss of cultural memories of approx. 1 pst. annual. Our goal is for us to be at 0.5 pst by 2008. Then we need this fund. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party was a leading party to bring in a cultural memory fund in connection with the previous communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, and we are following it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e215	As the rapporteur pointed out, there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of environmental policy. What is now happening is that the various pollutants take responsibility. The policies of the authorities also lead to a track record where most environmental challenges are being addressed. What is important, on which the rapporteur was concerned, is the principle that the polluter should pay. But a different and perhaps so important principle, at least for the Right, is that we always have to bear in mind that we're going to leave the country in a better state than it was in when we took over, that is, the relationship to the next generation. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party as the only party chooses not to participate in establishing a fund to clean up old environmental sins. We also believe that the polluter should pay, but it is not always possible to identify the polluter, at least not when it has been very long. In some places in Norway, for example: in cities and not least in the old industrial communities, some environmental bombs are well buried, but it is difficult to identify who is responsible for them, at least to place them financially in charge of this pollution. Why, then, does the Workers' Party choose as the only party not to participate in establishing a fund, so that we ensure that these environmental sins too are cleared up in relation to the next generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e220	I, who come from Sulitjelma, a small mine site with 104 years of mining, am very well aware of what old environmental sins really are. The Workers' Party and I are of the opinion that we are to be cleared up in these old environmental sins, it is important to find out who has contaminated, and use the pollution law, which says that the polluter has to pay. And we have the pollution law criteria that say that if you can't find a polluter, the state has to do the job. That's when we think that somehow you undermine the content of the pollution law by saying that you should get a fund, because then it can be easy to get money out. It may be that there are so many criteria for the polluter not to contribute that you do not get enough money to make this fund valuable. So I believe that when the landowner, the polluter and the state are so defined in the pollution law, this has to go over the budgets so that we can do this work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e225	As the rapporteur pointed out, today we have to remove a levy, namely the State fishing fee. Especially happy is the fact that lots of people wanting the most tax dollars are in favour of this. The levy amounts to approximately 11 million. kr, money used to a large extent for research in fresh water fish and for restocking fish water, which is positive. Loss of the levy means reduced revenue to the country, and the batches have different ways of resolving the loss of income. We in the Progress Party believe that these 11 million. kr may be redispatched within the framework of the environmental budget, amounting to approximately DKK 2 billion, while the Workers' Party asks the Government to take account of the loss of income during the ordinary budgetary procedure. Does this mean that the Workers' Party does not at all see any possibility of re-prioritising within the Ministry of the Environment's budget? Is the Workers' Party totally dependent on increased funds to cover the loss of income? We're moving a lot of money into the ministry's budget, for example. means of liming, which the different governments cut so it stands after, and which a committee majority manages to lift in place again every single year. I also wonder whether the Workers' Party will in the future go in for the use of Rotenon in rivers and watercourses. Finally, the rapporteur said that the Workers' Party would ‘clean up the tax jungle’. Then I would like to ask the question: what kind of other fees is the Workers' Party want to remove?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e232	The fisherman's fee is a fee we have had for quite a long time, and now it is time to start looking at some such fees that may not work as intended, although cultivation and renovation in these lakes has been of great importance. We're still going to have this cultivation, it's very important. To the last time the representative of Korsberg was in the case of rotenon: today we have no solutions to the problems but to use the rotenon. So before we get an answer to what possibilities give even better results, we use the Rotenon. The representative of Korsberg is asking about re-priorities in the state budget. We think it's right that the department itself is, as they go out and reduce a fee by as much as 11-12 million. kr, must assess the manner in which this is to be done in order to continue to have a work on restocking, etc. The working party believes that it is right not to link how the department will solve the 11 million under-coverage problems. kr. What we think is the department's responsibility to find answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e241	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e245	Today, for the third time, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the government's environmental protection policy are being addressed. The Communication addresses a broad range of environmental policy challenges, while reflecting trends and the status of environmental protection since the previous notification was being addressed. The communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state has now come every year to underpin the importance of constantly giving the necessary attention to our environmental challenges and ensuring continuity of work. However, the majority believe that the most appropriate thing to do here is to present this to the Stortinget every two years, with an explanation from the Minister for the Environment of the intervening years. The background is, among other things, that environmental measures need some time to work and that annual notifications do not provide sufficient opportunity to do so. The Christian People's Party endorses such an assessment and the proposal in its recommendation that the first communication be submitted to the Stortinget in 2003 and that the Council of State in 2002 come to the Stortinget with a status statement. Prior to the presentation of today’s Communication, the Committee asked that issues relating to waste in general and special waste in particular be given extra attention. This has happened, and the Committee has therefore spent a lot of its time on this issue. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to establish the so-called waste hierarchy as the basis for all waste policies. This means that, as far as possible, the management of waste is to be carried out by recovery operations, i.e. incineration and finally, but to a minimum, landfill operations. The Christian People's Party also adheres to the objective of treating as much as possible of the waste that we have the capacity and competence to handle in Norway in Norway. We also know that existing capacities for special waste in Norway are not being used to a sufficient extent, among others. as a result of a lot of waste being exported out of the country. For these reasons, the majority of the Government is therefore asking for very restrictive export authorisations in the future. According to the Christian People's Party and the majority view, it is an important principle that waste produced in Norway should also be treated in Norway. The size has decided to place the NOAH A/S special waste treatment facility in Brevik. The plant is now in operation, and through cooperation and co-location with Norcem’s factories, much of the energy is now being used in Norcem’s production. Both the location of the facility and now the activity are subject to much debate, not least in the fear of negative environmental consequences in an area that has long had to deal with environmental problems but has come a long way in cleaning up old sins and facilitating future more environmentally friendly production. I have no reason to believe that the presence of the NOAH in Brevik will have such consequences, but on the basis of the uncertainty and precautionary principle of the local population, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, the Centre Party, SV and Left, wants to facilitate an intensified monitoring of the Brevik facilities, the quality of Eidangerfjord and the air in the area to ensure that the operations of the NOAH and Norcem facilities will not cause increased environmental problems in the area. It is with some amazement that I note that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have not wanted to support such a request in the vote, thereby blocking a majority comment. There is reason to point out that the Progress Party in Telemark has fought in a price-effective way for Eidangerfjorden's well-being, but does not receive the necessary support from its colleagues in Stortinget. We're going to have to take note of that. PCBs represent a major environmental policy challenge. It also appears that according to the Stockholm Convention, PCBs are one of the substances that will be internationally banned. The Committee therefore sees the need for a take-off in order to address this problem on a broad front. Nevertheless, the Committee takes special action in relation to PCB-containing insulating glass, which in large quantities is on its way to Norwegian landfills. A total of 200 tonnes has been mentioned in this respect. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal that the Government be asked to facilitate a system for collecting and renovating PCB-containing insulating glass that is being replaced. The Committee also asks the Government to contribute immediately to measures to prevent further PCB contamination in the landfills. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the environmental challenges in the northern regions, as well as the situation in Russia and our own responsibilities at home, not least in relation to oil conservation along the coast of North Norway and in the Barents Sea area. For this reason, it highlights the importance of strengthening preparedness, also with the background of increasing transport of both oil and gas and of future nuclear waste from the Russian side. An overall committee therefore asks the Government to take action to improve oil protection in the northern regions. By extension, the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that separate petroleum-free zones should be established in areas of a particularly vulnerable nature. The minority therefore proposes that the Government prepare for the organisation of such zones but notes that the majority of the Committee welcomes this proposal. One of the main environmental challenges facing us both nationally and globally remains related to greenhouse gas emission reduction. The Kyoto Agreement is established as the only international framework we have to ensure that these efforts are implemented in all parts of the world. After the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, many have claimed that the agreement does not go far enough. These are probably right. The challenges will be greater and the demand for further emission reductions will be increased in the coming years. Nevertheless, the Kyoto Protocol is an important first step towards a new global climate policy, well note provided that the agreement is ratified by all contracting parties, including Norway. The minority, including the Christian People's Party, therefore asks the Government as soon as possible after the 6th Conference of the Parties in Bonn to ratify the Agreement. I would like to repeat this request now in my article. The climate agreement presupposes that a substantial part of the measures against greenhouse gas emissions should be taken at home. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee sets this principle in its position. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out the fact that the Government has not been able to get the climate announcement up to the Stortinget at an earlier date than the one now announced, namely 22 June – after the Stortinget has split up. My appeal to the Government is therefore that we do not now experience any further delays that can help both to slow down a necessary debate and to delay the implementation of national measures. Until now, the time is too short, and the need to get started quickly is great, for example. in the interests of the sectors necessarily affected by the measures. I also remind you that the central government in its time was very quick to take action after the end of the negotiations in Kyoto. However, I am pleased that an overall committee expresses concern about the failure of the United States to follow up international agreements, on this occasion the Kyoto Agreement, and that it is stated that Norway will continue to work independently of the United States along the path drawn up by the Kyoto Protocol. Forest conservation is important for the Christian People's Party. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the Committee in its position is willing to extend the protection of the coniferous forests in order to better address biodiversity, which also means safeguarding our maritime environment. It would therefore have been desirable for the central parties' proposals on their own protection plans for our maritime resources to have a majority in the position. In terms of coniferous protection, we are well-known that our neighbouring countries are spending much more heavily than Norway. The centre parties are therefore concerned that we should be able to approach these in the long term both in scale and in implementation. Finally, let me make a never so small heart attack over something that has already been affected in the line change. The size has decided by a large majority that a proposal on cultural memory funds should be submitted by 2000. We record that this has not happened. We also note that the Committee has previously requested that the Riksantikvarn should follow up the requests made by the Storting in relation to appropriations entered in its budget for specific cultural memories and protected buildings. We take note that this has not happened either. I therefore challenge the Council of State, when she has occasion during this debate, to clarify whether the Council of State considers the decision of the Storting as an important working instrument in the future on which the Government is actually committed. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that there is a somewhat relaxed relationship with the decisions taken by the Stortinget, and we will therefore place it strongly on the Government that we are now clarifying our view of their own relationship with the majority decisions taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e273	What primarily characterises the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state is broad consensus, and it is joyous. With the exception of SV on the one hand and the Progress Party on the other, the Centre Parties, the Labour Party and the Right agree on the main lines of environmental policy. That doesn't mean that we agree on absolute everything, but that what divides is nuances. It may be nuances in the view of instruments and on who has the driving role in environmental policy. In dealing with this message, the right has been primarily concerned with focusing on the need to clean up old environmental sins. The environmental debate has been a competition in recent years to put new issues on the agenda and to define new environmental objectives. I guess that's good. Norway will be at the forefront of meeting new environmental challenges, but we also have a responsibility to clean up our own backyard. It is well documented that dangerous and late degradable pollutants are on the way. The environmental poison PCB is one of the worst, and we know it damages the genetic properties. The environmental toxin has been detected in port basins and in fjords. The fact that PCBs have also been found in deep-water fish in the Arctic shows that the poison can be transported over long distances and spread. Over several years, the Right, together with the SV, has focused on the need to limit the damage and remove the environmental pollution from nature. We have proposed to allocate money both for research and clean-up measures, but have been voted down in Stortinget. I am pleased that the right in this setting has been fully impressed by three important proposals, all of which are linked to the major cleanup work that needs to be started. In January of this year, a document No. Eight proposals requiring a separate action plan to combat environmental pollution. The right will focus more on research and monitoring, while the clean-up work will have to start. I am pleased that the Right's proposal has broad support. But we're worried about the low level of ambition it seems that the labor party government is going to put itself on. It is nice to start a pilot project in Sandefjord, but the Right believes that there is a need to start more projects. I hope the Environment Minister will note that there is a majority in the Committee that criticises the Government for the low level of ambition. The bourgeois city council in Oslo has focused on the problems in Oslo port. In this setting, the rightmost and central portions of this project are drawn on. In the revised national budget, the right will propose to allocate new millions to PCB clean-up. If the Right proposal is supported, the work on cleaning up the environmental pollutants in the Oslo port may begin. When there is now a majority for the proposal to start the clean-up work, it is essential that we stop the supply of PCBs to nature. The Committee is aware that there are more than 200 tonnes of PCBs in insulating glass panes produced between 1965 and 1975. These paths are now being replaced. Today, most of it is dung, and the poison is drifting into nature. It is essential that we establish a system that ensures the proper management of these routes. It should not cost to act environmentally friendly. Therefore, the right has proposed the creation of a system for the collection and refurbishment of PCB-containing glass where the State mainly covers costs. I am pleased that the proposal is widely accepted. It is a well established principle that the polluter must pay. The problem with the old environmental sins, as it also appeared in a line change earlier, is that it is not always as easy to identify the environmental sin. However, it does not relieve the sinner of responsibility. The right has therefore proposed the establishment of a separate clearing-up fund in cooperation between the State and industry. This shall be used to clean up old environmental sins and to remove environmental pollutants already scattered in nature. I am pleased that the proposal has a majority, but I am surprised that the Labour Party is opposed. It is not unreasonable for business to participate in a fissure layer with the State to clean up the old environmental sins. The right considers that it was right to focus on the need to clean up old environmental sins in this setting. I am pleased with the impact that has been achieved on the Right, and look forward to the Council of State following up. It is useful that the Storting should be given the opportunity to discuss at regular intervals the breadth of environmental policy. On the right, the principle of driving was and that the polluter should pay for it, and we agree that environmental considerations should permeate all policy areas. The right focus on international solutions, on international environmental problems. For this reason, the Right supports, inter alia: Kyoto Protocol for climate change control. The right focusses on national and international cost-effectiveness in order to get the most environment out of each krona. Therefore, the Right is a member of both a national and an international trading system. Right has faith in progress. That is why we focus on research and new technologies to reduce and preferably eliminate environmentally harmful emissions. Therefore, the Right consistently proposes to increase the appropriations for both energy research and environmental research. Right will have less use of whips and more use of carrots to promote more environmentally friendly behaviour, both among people and in business. Instead of looking for new environmental taxes, the Right will look for green tax exemptions. The right will strike a good balance between use and protection, which both ensures the possibility of resource use in our long-term country and ensures that we take care of natural values for future generations. This is why the Right Plan for the Protection of the Coniferous Forests supports, but we demand that landowners be compensated and that areas not protected at this time be managed under the Forest Act. For the same reason, the Right Plan to establish national salmon fjords and salmon streams supports, but we are committed to ensuring good conditions and growth opportunities for the farming industry at the same time. In the 2001 budget, there was a majority in favour of increasing the appropriations to preserve and secure central cultural memories such as Heddal Stafkirke, Ulstein Monastery and Stavanger Cathedral and to increase the appropriations for industrial cultural memories. In the public debate, it has become known that these cultural memories have not been increased but reduced. This has produced strong reactions. The reason, according to the media, is that the Riksantikvaren has moved funds from those cultural memories to the establishment of a new computer system. This is critical, but I would like to stress that this is ultimately the responsibility of the Council of State. The size is related to the Council of State, and the Council of State has a responsibility to follow-up on the position of the Council of State. I am therefore looking forward to the State Council's statement today to explain how this matter has been handled and how it will be dealt with in the future. I would also like to draw attention to a proposal that does not seem to have a majority today, namely to oblige the Government to set up a cultural memory fund in 2002. It is alarming that this case has not been followed up in the past, as the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, also pointed out in his post. Finally, it is gratifying that the right has also been given an advantage for the proposal to grant money to clean up the Vansjø-Hobøl watercourse. This is a watercourse and an area that has high natural values but also represents a drinking water source for nearly 60,000 inhabitants in the Moss district. It is not surprising, but it is disappointing that the Workers' Party is opposed to this proposal – not surprisingly because the Workers' Party has also consistently proposed to remove support for the veins, but disappointing because this is an area that represents drinking water for almost 60,000 people. That's why this is a national case, and the Right believes that we need to get a split layer between local and state to secure the natural values and to secure drinking water for nearly 60,000 people in the Moss area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e308	There is a lot of emphasis on the right that we have not joined the creation of a so-called clean-up fund. I want to say, firstly, that such a fund is not established overnight; secondly, I think it is quite important that one insists that the polluter should be involved and pay, and that the business community that has contributed to this pollution is also pressured by the authorities to join in. In a previous line change today, Bent Höie said that it is so difficult to identify the old environmental sins. I interpret this so that because it may be difficult, the Right actually wants to impose today's business life together with the authorities to assume the financial obligations and responsibility for, among other things. PCBs and associated costs. So today's business is to take responsibility for what a former business has done. It's estimated at just 30 billion kroner for PCBs. The right will not use taxes, I understand. Then I ask the representative, Jan Tore Sanner, how did he intend this to be financed? Who is to be included in this fund, because, after all, it must be two parties? I have to say that at least I have no faith that the party that so strongly criticises fees will use it as a means of getting money into the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e315	As the setting indicates, this clearing fund is not fully explored, rather on the contrary, we are asking the Ministry and the Government to investigate different models. That is why it is surprising that the Workers' Party has chosen to stand outside. I agree that the polluter should pay, but we know that this is a pollution that might have happened 10, 20 or 30 years ago, maybe 40 years ago, and from companies that may have gone bankrupt, or where it is simply not possible to identify the sinner. The right has been a driver to increase the government's appropriations for the clean-up work, we have supported the City Council of Oslo in their desire to place the polluters in charge, and we have pointed to this clean-up fund. But the Labour Party remains unanswered. The Workers' Party has consistently opposed the Right's proposal to grant state resources to start the clean-up work. The work is opposed to the establishment of this clearing fund. And we know that the City Council in Oslo did not receive the necessary support from the authorities and from the Workers' Party when they wanted to address the problems in Oslo port. If we agree that PCBs and other pollutants that are scattered in nature are a problem, we need to look for solutions. The right has pointed to more. We are calling for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e326	Yes, I then register after the answer I have received from Jan Tore Sanner, that he actually wants to oblige today's business to cover the costs of damage caused by past businesses and past business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e331	The representative, Blattmann, has no basis for finding anything. We want to have this investigated, we want there to be a cooperation between the state and business, and we believe it is perfectly natural that business is also involved in the investigation of different models contained in our proposal. What remains is that, with regard to this major problem of old environmental sins, where poisons are spread in nature and grow up in the food chain, the Workers' Party has no answer as to how to attack them. Among other things, from the Workers' Party said that the polluter has to pay. Yes, does that mean that the Workers' Party is not willing to use more government funds for the cleaning up work? And now we're also told that you're not willing to include today's business in the clean-up work. I think that if we're going to stand and throw arguments at each other's heads, this problem will just grow without us actually taking hold of it. The right is willing to do that. That is why we are proposing increased appropriations for the budget, which is why we want to focus on clean-up work where we can establish cooperation with business, and we also want to support those who want to place the polluter in charge, if necessary through the legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e341	When talking about the environment and environmental protection, it should be borne in mind that almost all human activity causes more or less pollution. In the opinion of the Progress Party, measures to limit pollution must meet two requirements. Firstly, they must be effective, and secondly, the principle of equality of laws must be respected. Something that causes pollution is all the basic and shipwrecks that have taken place along the Norwegian coast lately. The experience gained from these licences suggests that a broad review of today’s oil protection preparedness is essential and that the state’s own preparedness is analysed. An example showing that the standby is not good enough is what happened in connection with the disaster of the bulk ship ‘John R’ off the Troms coast. It took a very long time, closer to a week, before the bunker oil was discharged. The reasons for this are more, but poor organisation, lack of equipment and a long distance between the Hagarist and the Depoe are probably some of the main elements. Poor oil protection is becoming extra worrying when it comes from North-West Russia to export 7.5 million tonnes of crude oil annually. The transport of the crude oil shall be carried out by tankers bound to the coast of North Norway. It is important that oil protection equipment includes both preventive measures and has a structure that provides rapid and effective clean-up in the event of an accident. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority for proposal V, so that there will be a necessary improvement in oil protection in the north. It's not just in the north, it's oil carried. Similar and larger transport is also carried out elsewhere in the country, for example in the West. And then, in the Progress Party, we are of the opinion that oil protection should be strengthened with the necessary equipment and landfills in other parts of the country as well. The Progress Party assumes that the Minister for the Environment will follow this up when a broad review of the preparedness is now being undertaken and that it will be presented to the Stortinget during the autumn. Following shipwreck operations are important. The progress party has been involved several times in this respect. I would like to refer here to questions in the Question Time from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen concerning the oil spills from the old war wreck at Narvik port, as well as more questions from me regarding ‘Boiki’ and ‘Murmansk’. These questions pose a risk to oil pollution from old havoc ships as well as to the visual grubbing-up of old shipwrecks. The answers from the various Ministers for the Protection of the Environment are that what is to be done, if any, is constantly being investigated, but there is very little willingness from the government to do something concrete about these shipwrecks. In any case, it is gratifying that these days one of the old wrecks, namely 'Boiki', is being destroyed in 1988. When it takes 13 years from a ship crash and stays in the middle of the view of the local population until it is removed, it shows in my view that the government has no strategy to remove boats that are lying and paving. What the reason for this is, the Council of State might say something about it. There are many shipwrecks along the coast, and only in the three northernmost states there are registered over 500 wrecks. There are probably only a few of these that pose a risk of pollution, and a few are of visible shyness, but I hope that the government in the context of the 2002 state budget will make proposals to limit possible oil spills from old shipwrecks and do something to remove shipwrecks that cause visual distress to the population. Effective management of waste from households and businesses is important. The waste should be burned as far as possible in modern combustion plants where the heat is recovered for water heating, for district heating or for electricity generation. The progress party is skeptical about today's source sorting system, as it has been found that the system is different in many municipalities. In this context, I would like to refer to the Central Bureau's research report, which states that today's source sorting system is unprofitable and in many areas less environmentally friendly compared to landfilling or incineration. In many municipalities it has been found that the waste is sorted at source in households, but that at the end of the treatment of the waste, it is mixed again. The intention is to do so, and the result is that you have managed to get households to pay an additional fee. In principle, there should be two reasons why we should carry out source sorting: either to reduce the extraction of natural resources or to limit emissions from waste facilities. Now it has become so that the source sorting has almost become a goal in itself. Take, for example, paper. Trees are not an overtaxed resource in Norway. There's now actually twice as much forest here to land as 70 years ago. In other words, it should not be a goal to reduce the extraction of forest or recover paper here to land. If we burn the paper waste, we get energy that can replace imported coal power from Denmark. In the calculation of the Statistical Central Bureau, the time spent by individuals to sort the waste, including, and beyond, the time it takes to bring the waste to the collection sites, as well as the community's efforts to fine-sort and, not least, to transport it to the recovery facility – for the paper's sake to Sweden or the East. The same applies to glass. Of course, stone glass is not a limited resource. Glass is not a type of waste that produces toxic emissions and landfilling can be an alternative. The same applies to metal. It is a paradox that governments offer cheap energy to the powerful metal producing industry while supporting recycling to limit the same production. It goes towards summer, and for some it means salmon fishing. For those who run that kind of business, it's probably a hope that this year's salmon fishing will be near last year's, which was one of the best in a very long time. The reason for the good salmon fishing last year can be more and more natural, as for example: good management of rivers for many years, little lice, virtually no catch at sea, and good quality in grazing areas, with warmer water, leading to better grazing conditions for salmon. Therefore, caution should be exercised to believe that extensive protection is what is needed to rescue the wild species. We in the Progress Party are sure that the management of salmon in rivers is best done through landowners, river companies and associations. Any system of quota fishing for salmon in the rivers must be based on cooperation and volunteering, and not forced by the authorities, as the Government wishes. One thing that kills most of the stuff is Rotenon. The Directorate for Nature Management has known for more than five years that aluminium liquid is a very effective method against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. As is known, rotenon kills all life in a river, while aluminium kills only the salmon parasite. Despite this, rotenone treatment has continued and alternative treatments have not been explored. During this five-year period, millions have been spent on the treatment of watercourses by rotenone, with very unsuccessful results. It is not every day that you remove a fee in this room, and I am glad that the Progress Party was given a majority in favour of the proposal to remove the State fishing fee. The loss of this inland fishing fee amounts to about 11 million. kr, money used mainly for the cultivation of fish water and for research. There are funds that should be covered in our view, and this should be done by re-priorities within the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. At the end of the day, I just want to signal that we in the Progress Party are opposed to the proposal for Decision III, which is to make it attractive to choose bicycles as a means of emergence. We think it's nice to make it attractive to use the bike, but we want to bet more on the road sector in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e386	I have to tell the representative of Korsberg that the Government in the open air message, which is now out there, has proposed to remove the fishing fee. So it's probably not Korsberg who suggested it in the committee. But what is a little eye-catching, and I still have to ask the representatives of the Progress Party, is their view on climate change and policy. In fact, the Progress Party, in relation to its previous policies, closes watchful enough to the Kyoto Protocol, where greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are now to be reduced to 1 pst. in 2012 compared to 1990. At the same time, however, they come in their committee's comments with framework criticism. They talk about ‘the so-called greenhouse gases’ etc. They refer to the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, to which they then refer almost contemptuously, and believe that these are not real things they are talking about and that more research needs to be done. Is it, then, that the Progress Party does not see the need at all for us to discuss climate policy here in Norway and for us to define a climate policy both nationally and internationally? Is it so that the Progress Party rejects all of this? What is the policy of the Progress Party now, as they join the Kyoto Protocol and as we are going to deal with it in Norway, according to what they said earlier, but at the same time the UN Climate Panel breaks down and says that this does not have credibility at all? What is the climate policy of the Progress Party now, and how will they deal with the climate communication when it comes? Is it completely unnecessary, in relation to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e393	Let me first comment on the fee that the chairman of the committee, Mr President. Nordtun, started with initially. We will ensure that we vote in favour of all the proposals to eliminate charges that the ministry may bring – and we hope that they will be many. But it's possible you have to have a government shift to get it done. But then to climate change, not in the government quarter, but more globally. It is quite right that, in the vote, we point out that, under the Kyoto Protocol, Norway should only have 1 pst. higher greenhouse gas emissions in 2012 compared to 1990. We're referring to what's a large number, it's not a majority we've been in. Our climate policy is firm. We record that what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change comes with is predictions, and that there are other scientists who have completely different views about what affects the climate, among other things. solar activity, clouds, ocean currents and such things. We do not want to enter into a climate agreement that would lead to a distortion of competition for Norwegian industry, loss of Norwegian jobs and such things. If you want a climate regime, it should include most of the industrialized countries on the globe. It's to avoid distortions of competition. And it's not without reason that the United States has put its foot down for such a distortion of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e402	Let me just first take up the suggestions that we have in the setting, which I forgot to include in my main post. Then to the representative of Korsberg, a follow-up to Tore Nordtun's question. I get strong associations when he talks about fortune-telling and the United Nations Climate Panel, to a man who lies asleep while the fire alarm goes. Then you throw out the fire alarm and think it's the one that's technically wrong, then you go to sleep, and then the house burns down. It's about the position that I feel the Progress Party is taking in climate policy, it's not made clear at any point that you live by the precautionary principle, whether it's in climate policy or in other areas. So I'm bringing this over to a local commitment, which is also reflected in the setting today, and which I was in on in my post. This is an intensified monitoring work for Eidangerfjorden, after the Stortinge decided to place the NOAH special waste facility out there. Would it not be natural, in Korsberg's view, that the Stortinget also took responsibility for following up the possible consequences of this, negative to the environment, not least in the interests of the population, and perhaps to the members of the Progress Party, not least in order to give some support from this House to the strong commitment of the Progress Party in Telemark in this respect? My specific question is: what is the very concrete reason why the Progress Party does not want to intensify the monitoring of this fjord arm and of the Brevik plants after they were placed there on the basis of the Storting decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e415	Brother Yngve Rahm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e418	This is not the first time you hear a doomsday prophet from the Christian People's Party. When it comes to climate issues, at least we want to be a lot more certain about what action to take before doing so. It is clear that if you go into what is Kyoto, that will lead to a huge cost for our country. And, as I said in my previous answer, this leads to a distortion of competition and the loss of Norwegian jobs, and we have no desire to do so. That's what other parties want, but at least we don't want it. It is true that the Progress Party locally has engaged in this matter; the Advance Party locally engages in a lot of things. But it's the way we in Stortinget have to make some decisions, and it's not always possible for us to meet the wishes that come locally. And in connection with the defense proposition that is being dealt with here in the house, I think all parties have experienced that local wishes cannot be fulfilled. This also applies to the involvement of the Progress Party locally in Telemark. But we're glad they have that commitment, and of course they'll follow that matter closely. We believe that the monitoring that is, is good enough, and sees no need to make populist decisions here in the house in order to possibly sign up for election voters in Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e427	That was a fairly clear speech from Korsberg. At the same time, it appears that the Progress Party is gradually taking over the existence of greenhouse gases and that they may have adverse consequences. I record that Carl I. Hagen stated to the Evening Post on 20 February 2000 that CO2 emissions are not pollution in the normal sense, pollution is when emissions run into rivers and water so that the fish die, and when people get sick of air; CO2 does not pollute. I'd like to ask Korsberg if he agrees with that consideration, whether he believes that for the climate the amount of CO2 is subordinate, uninteresting, it kind of doesn't matter as much if it's there. Carl I. Hagen also said in the interview that the plants live on CO2. Does this mean that for the Progress Party, what kind of deposits, quantities of CO2 are generated and how CO2 is generated is entirely uninteresting and therefore there is no need for concrete measures to do anything about the amount of CO2? Can Korsberg specifically answer that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e436	In the case of greenhouse gases, or so-called greenhouse gases, about 97 pst. of the global CO2 emissions from nature itself – 97 pst. 3 pst. is man-made. CO2 is a small part of the greenhouse gases present in the atmosphere. So it's about small, small amounts. But what's a little interesting to follow up on in the climate debate is that every time you have a storm, a flood, or something like that, climate scientists come forward and say that this is man-made. We remember that there was a lot of rainfall in this area in the autumn, and then one climate researcher after another stood up, pictured far out in a river of water up to life, and said that this is due to climate change. But now we have had a normal climate – if you can call it a normal climate – to the future, and there has not been one climate scientist who has stood up. In 1997, we had two and a half meters of snow in Tromsø. At that time, climate scientists stood up in the snow and cried out that this is man-made. After that, we have had normal winters, and there has not been one climate researcher who has stood and cried out about climate change. Climate scientists are using bad weather to market themselves and their views, and I think you should start thinking a little about it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e445	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e448	It is gratifying that the broad lines of environmental protection policy have wide cross-political support. In the Committee, the parties have written in a row and created a deal on an important point. There is an unobserved fact that the election campaign stands at the door. Even within classic conflict areas such as the nature reserve, outdoor motor travel and power development, the situation is having a good time. An exception is the policy of predators, where the Senterpartie clearly rejects the idea of investing in viable populations of predators in Norway. When this is said, do we recognize stagnation? Yes, in any case, the environmental struggle is fragmentedly linked to a bridge, a highway, a waterfall or mining on Svalbard. Climate issues may lead to environmental protection being put at the top of the agenda. It'll turn out. The media community is visible but splits simultaneously. Official environmental protection policy does not involve most people. It's too bureaucratic and pointy. Nevertheless, there are light points. The government wants local communities and municipalities to take a greater part in the responsibility for environmental protection policy. It was also the central government's clear position, and at that point the committee follows with strong wording. We should thus be able to hope that the intentions of Local Agenda 21 will come to fruition in practice. By shifting power and responsibility from the central level to the local level, knowledge of environmental problems will increase, and people will want to engage in a development that has sustainable development as their goal. But nothing comes of itself. We know that moving on power is difficult. It takes a political pressure to get it done. And the counter-representations are many, for example, that communities lack both competence and will, and that people are near-sighted, selfish and little occupied with the future. Everything goes wrong without a central environmental policy. In political philosophy, Thomas Hobbes and John Locke stand as counter-polar. One has a pessimistic, the other has an optimistic view of man's ability to act morally without having to force it. There can hardly be any doubt that Hobbes's, negative thoughts about man dominates in our time. Power gathers on the tops, where its few that think they can and know best. That's the trend. But fortunately, it's not one-off. It is interesting and also uplifting that Norwegian environmental protection policy in 2001 shows a willingness to bet on local responsibility. And with good reason, for people are clearly better than their reputation. We must believe that theory and practice in this case will go hand in hand. If that happens, distrust will be replaced with trust, just what it takes to ensure that both sustainable development and democracy will have a future. The tension in environmental policy is in the extension of such an approach. It is in the metropolises of the world and culture that the offensive is currently lying. There are powerful representations that man is a monster that has no natural place in the wilderness. Such tanks have also been imported into Norway. We all know maps where wilderness is defined as the area so and so many kilometers away from the nearest human intervention and activity. After such a definition, there is little left of wilderness in Norway. But that's where we have reason to ask questions, for Norwegian lightning and tradition is constantly contrasting to the thoughts people in the metropolis have about nature. More than most other peoples in Europe still live in and out of the wilderness. We're not outside, as ecophilosopher Sigmund Kvalau Setreng has reminded us many times. In such a perspective, Norway is involved in Europe and the world. The problem is that foreigners and also some Norwegian environmental organisations have difficulty understanding this when, for example, a TV camera is viewed as a quack and a wolf's act. It is important for the global society’s deficiency that Norway takes care of its peculiarity. Our challenge is to show respect for everything that lives and grows, not by withdrawing from nature, but by changing our behavior in line with the principle of sustainable development. Our challenge is to reject globalisation trends that are tearing down national and local cultures that have found natural adaptation in an interaction with nature. Finally, I'd like to say a few words about polar strokes. It is in the Arctic that the results of environmental policy can be recorded regionally and globally – progress and failure. Winds, currents and rivers lead pollution northwards to a highly vulnerable landscape. In this area, instruments measure the state of environmental health in the soil. There is serious local pollution in the north, especially associated with nuclear waste. The main point, however, is that it is in the north of modern civilization that it can acquire knowledge of its environmental policy status. That censure should be at the heart of Norwegian diplomatic work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e474	We know that the Defence Committee is now considering the long-term defence plan. The central parties have put forward a proposal to use the sale of properties released by the conversion of the Norwegian defence to finance the defence arrangements of the central parties. In this setting that we are dealing with today, the centre parties are associated with the Workers' Party and the Right about a comment, where we say: ‘This majority considers that areas freed by conversion of Norwegian defence should be allocated to free areas.’ In other words, on the one hand, the centre parties say that the proceeds of the sale of the properties will be used to finance the defence. In the setting of this message, the centre batches indicate that the areas are to be allocated to clearance areas. Is this double accounting, or is it so that the municipalities are going to buy these properties from the Defense? These aren't small sums we're talking about. If I don't remember completely wrong, the center parties want 2 billion kroner from the sale of the defence property to go into the financing of the defense, while saying that the land should be allocated to the open spaces. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e485	When we listen to the representative from the Right here, we get the impression that there is a big gap between what is discussed in the Defence Committee, the positions that one is about to take, and the positions we are taking and discussing here today. That's probably not the case. What we're talking about here is free space - space that can be freed up and useful to what we're busy about. Of course, we're in favour of that. I can't see, as I said, that in this process there are such great contradictions that the representative Sanner drew up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e490	The Government's report on the state of the environment and the submission of the Government's environmental policy through annual reports also opens up a debate on the issues at the main hall, and we see that changing issues arise, such as PCBs this year. You get themes in focus, and maybe in some areas you can see that you're taking new steps in the right direction. There are examples in the setting up of the Energy and Environment Committee. However, reducing the frequency of government reports to every two years, as proposed by the majority, means that there is less room for this type of debate in the main hall. It may well come up as a case-by-case proposal on other issues, but that means that less debate on energy and environmental policy is very rapid in volume terms, and other issues are taking over. I note that the Central Party is also part of the majority that is in favour of no longer producing annual reports on the state of the State's environment from the Government, but only every two years. I would like to ask the Central Party what kind of considerations have been used in order not to continue to have a claim that the reports should come annually, precisely on the basis of the reasons I have given here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e499	When we have proposed what we have done, it is because we feel confident that such a scheme will be able to take care of the interests of the representative, Ballo, who was busy with it. It is true that, through the normal work in Stortinget, we always have the opportunity to request documentation that we believe is of particular interest to us. And precisely in this combination that is in the normal work that goes on in Stortinget, and the procedure that we propose, we will be able to fully follow up on the areas that we would like to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e504	It is obvious that the representative Dale was not very comfortable when he was going to answer my question, so I almost have to be allowed to repeat it and ask which version is the correct one. The central part is in a comment that says: ‘This majority considers that areas freed by the conversion of Norwegian defence should be allocated to free areas.’ At the same time, the Central Party of the Defence Committee says that the proceeds of the sale of properties, which will amount to NOK 2 billion, will be used to invest in new defence equipment. It's not possible for the Center Party to mean these two things at the same time. If you are going to bring in NOK 2 billion from the sale of properties, there are significant properties, but in the environment setting they say that derelict land should be ‘used to free areas’. Which version is the correct one? Is that what the Centre Party says in the Defence Committee, where they want to sell the properties and get income to invest in defence material, or is that the comment in this position, where the Centre Party is with the Right, saying that areas should be outsourced to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e516	I'm glad I'm able to clarify what was my point. The areas that the Defense owns, which are suitable for being released for outdoor purposes, will be realized in such a way. But of course, there are a lot of these areas that are not suitable for such a purpose, and that can be disposed of, and where the money is used within the Defence Framework. So what I said, it's solid. There is an area here which can be used to free the general public, but large parts of the area it is talking about have to be realized within the Defence Framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e526	The SV notes that the Committee is united on overall considerations in relation to the environmental policy to be pursued in Norway. The Committee states that ‘a sound management of the environment must be based on three principles’. One principle is that the limit of tolerance of nature must not be exceeded, the other is that the precautionary principle must be applied, and the third is that the polluter must pay the pollution damage. But at the same time, there's something symptomatic about it, because once you can agree on these kind of general principles, it becomes the majority and minority as soon as you start discussing the consequences of the principles. Looking at nature’s limit of tolerance, it can be seen that in a number of areas it has already been significantly exceeded today. PCBs have just been mentioned here as an environmental pollutant, which causes the tolerance limit to be broken. Nevertheless, you don't want to do anything about the problem that PCBs represent, in such a way that you stay within the limit of nature's tolerance. So you can't live up to the goals of an overall committee. It is said that the precautionary principle should be taken into account. Then we'll hear Korsberg in a line exchange and also in his main post, where he totally rejects the precautionary principle as a principle. He ridicules it – excuse me, ‘laughing’ is certainly not a parliamentary expression – and seems to ignore the fact that one is dependent on looking into the future, trying to predict what can happen, and that in that case the negative consequences must be taken into account, that one will get into big problems if that happens. So the pre-goods principle is not taken into account by an overall committee, even if a the light committee has such a comment. We also see it in climate policy, that neither the Workers' Party nor the Government are willing to comply with a precautionary principle. Thus, it has not yet been possible to present an action plan in relation to climate policy, under the Kyoto Protocol. Pollutants have to pay for the damage, you say. A number of environmental taxes have just that as their purpose. There may be car charges; there may be charges in other areas related to emissions. And then we hear, as from the representative of the Progress Party, that it will be an objective for any fee proposed by any government to reduce those charges, possibly to eliminate them. It is moving away from the objective that the polluter should pay. We see here that there is a gap in a common type of considerations that makes them not able to be complied with in practice. The Stockholm Convention on Environmental Toxins requires that the 12 most dangerous pollutants, those which are at least degradable, be restricted or banned – DDT as environmental toxins and PCBs another. PCB is a gigantic environmental problem, with medical effects affecting the genetic material. They've also seen deformed genital organs in animals, and obviously they can also do it in humans. We know more than enough about PCBs to get speedy. There is also a strong need for an in-depth investigation into the way clean-up work is to be carried out, and pilot projects need to be carried out in this area. However, it is entirely symptomatic of the Government's environmental policy that the Workers' Party also has such low ambitions in the area that they only propose one pilot project, while the majority of the Committee is happily in favour of a much higher level of ambition with several parallel projects. Norway is unable to comply with its obligations under the North Sea Agreement regarding nitrogen emissions. The situation is somewhat better in the case of phosphorus. But also in the case of phosphorus, there are examples of unacceptable occurrences. I noticed that the representative Sanner mentioned the Vansjø-Hobøl watercourse, where one has a drinking water source for approx. 60,000 people. The water contains large amounts of phosphorus, not least because of over-fertilisation in the areas adjacent to the source of drinking water. The consequence is the flowering of algae to a level where water can become toxic. There has been a strong local commitment to doing something about the situation, but there has been a lack of funds in neighbouring municipalities. SV has committed itself strongly locally and is very pleased that the Right has engaged so strongly in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and that a majority is now in favour of action. Together with the centre parties, SV promotes a proposal asking the Government to ensure a State co-financing of a package of measures to reduce phosphorus emissions to an acceptable level. Thus, the government has not yet been able to present an action plan for climate policy, which also mentions the quota arrangements. The government has announced that the action plan will be delayed. The size is now being resolved without a decision on how to meet the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, and it is difficult to accept. It's totally unacceptable. I refer to the suggestions that SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e556	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e561	The representative, Mr Ballo, was concerned about this with the precautionary principle and the Progress Party and the Kyoto Agreement. We will, of course, be in favour of a precautionary principle, but there must be reasonable grounds for doing so. We believe that with regard to the Kyoto agreement, the whole protocol is based on very uncertain grounds, and it also turns out that there are many countries that do not want to ratify this agreement. Scientists other than those in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, who have completely different theories about why the climate is changing, are not taken into account. It may be a little important for the representative Ballo, and to the extent that others in this room, to be aware that we do not live on a climate-static planet. The climate is changing, and both species and fauna are coming and going. I've been watching TV about the dinosaurs, and I have to say that I might be a little happy that we've had some climate change since then. Maybe others should be. I do not know if I can please the representative Ballo from SV, but in terms of fees, SV and the Progress Party have agreed on a fee that we thought should go to improve the environment, namely to a fund to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide. We want the fee now paid by the process industry to go to a fund to develop a technology to clean emissions, but it doesn't want a majority here on the Stortinget. It is absolutely right that we have a principle, which the whole committee agrees with, that the polluter should pay the damage from the pollution, and then I will ask the representative Ballo – he can look out of the window, where there is someone who has fired the lions on the outside today: Does the representative Ballo think that those who put a guy on the lions should now stand out and wash them instead of a rented company?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e572	Yeah, I think so. I think it's an excellent idea. The progress party as a law and order party should have no problem bringing in those who have dirty to the lions and get them to wash them. I think we should. I'm going straight to the next one. I have a book by Ronald Reagan with quotes from him, and a lot of the quotes are related to environmental problems. I have to say that the statements Ronald Reagan has made should be able to go directly into the Progress Party's work programme. There is one example that is more serious than the other. One is e.g. to the effect that plants and forests are the largest environmental polluter of all. I note that Peter N. Myhre on September 2, 1989, said to the Evening Post: ‘I find that in five to ten years’ time no one is talking about the greenhouse effect or the holes in the ozone layer. The left side, especially in Norwegian policy, has always tried to find things that lie outside the world of reality. Since the late 1970s, these have been combined, the homophiles, the nuclear weapons and now the greenhouse effect/ozonholes.» So it's a prophecy that Peter N. Myhre brought. I know we in SV have quoted it before, but it's a good quote. I am tempted to ask – of course via the President – back to the representative Korsberg: Do you agree with the prediction that the Progress Party came with just ten years ago, that in ten years' time no one would talk about the greenhouse effect, about the ozone layer? Does Korsberg perceive, in other words, that what is happening here today is a non-debate, it's not something that someone says anything about, no one talks about these terms? In this area, it may at least appear that the predictions of the Progress Party have been somewhat erroneous in the future. Then I have to say that it would be a wonderful lead principle if the only thing to be led was on, are areas where you can be reasonably sure of the consequences. I perceive that the precautionary principle just means that the uncertainty you might have about the consequences for the future means that you have to choose the solutions you are sure of giving the least adverse effects. That is the whole basis for the precautionary principle. If the Progress Party perceives it in a completely different direction, namely that it should only apply when the consequences are known in advance, it is not what SV sees as a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e590	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e594	The Government of Bondevik presented the first major report on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state in the autumn of 1999. It was an important innovation. This Communication and the subsequent Communications invite systematisation and further development of environmental policy. Two different governments have taken advantage of the opportunity to promote important, new proposals, take important steps in the right direction, in relation to these messages. The size has followed up and taken its own, important initiatives. We also see in today's attitude that the majority is moving environmental protection policies in important areas beyond what the Government proposes. In addition, the debate and process around these messages is important. It helps to put and keep environmental issues on the agenda. The Left therefore considers annual notifications and subsequent processes related to them important in the Stortinget. The setting accepts that only SV share this view. The position also shows that the Left, the other central parties and the SV have more offensive environmental policies in important areas than the majority, consisting of members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party. The Communication also states that in some areas the Right actually goes further than the Workers' Party and that the Workers' Party forms a majority together with the Advance Party. That is the case in the case of cultural memory funds and the follow-up there. There was a broad consensus in Stortinget that the matter was to be presented last autumn. There did not follow up the Government, they did not prioritize this area, as the Storting had asked. Once again, when you are invited to renew this decision and link it to the budget for the autumn, the Workers' Party is going to drop. This is very disappointing, and it cannot, at least, be seen as a priority in this area. The recent debate has also shown that part of the cultural memory effort carried out by the Storting has been undermined by the transfer of funds from priority areas to other areas in the budget of the Riksantik product. This has been going on on a large scale and over several years, and it is crucial now that the Minister for the Environment confirms that this undermining of the Storting's priorities will be halted and that there will be consequences in relation to the Riksantik product and the powers he has. In another area, too, the Labour Party and the Advance Party ensure that there is a majority. This is something the Left has been working for, namely getting a monitoring programme related to the activity of NOAH and Norcem. It is disappointing that we are not launching a systematic monitoring programme related to these large plants. It would have earned the local population, and it would have been quite natural in relation to the environmental challenges that one is facing. In some areas, there are good objectives, but it is the practical follow-up that fails. The government determines that the ecological perspective should form the basis for policy-making in all areas of society. Climate and energy policies are areas where this has not been implemented and where there is a need for more offensive policies than the government proposes. There is also a need for a more offensive policy in terms of coniferous protection than the government puts up, and I refer in this connection to the comments of the Christian People's Party, Left and SV. There has been a positive development in waste policy, and I would like to stress, as indicated in the remarks, that the aim must be to reduce the amount of waste and to seek reuse, recycling and energy use, and, as a final element, to treat the waste properly. The left is in favour of a waste hierarchy based on a policy approach in this area. I would like to say a few words relating to two specific projects. This Communication states that a priority should be given to open-air life and to facilitating the making available of properties to the general public. Then it is alarming that the government seems to charge well for important quay properties, which are now desired by an open-air council in Rogaland. It is important that the Government coordinate policies in the various areas, so that one can achieve the ambitious objectives set out in the Communication, and I hope that the Minister for the Environment will contribute to it. So another example. On Christmas 1st day in 1999, a boat went on land outside Karmøy in Rogaland. Now the rescue operation requires VAT, with the result that it stops, even though a few years have passed since the boat crashed. In this context, it is important for the State to enter and, where appropriate, to contribute a larger subsidy to compensate for VAT, so that the failed ship, standing in a priority natural area, can be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e617	The ‘Government's Environmental Protection Policy and State of the Reich’, RM, was presented for the second time in winter. The communication is in many areas a follow-up and a continuation of objectives and instruments in the communication addressed by the Stortinget last autumn. It is related to the need to look at environmental protection policy in the long term and to the fact that instruments often need time to deliver the desired effects. On this basis, I have taken note of the Committee's comments on the further work on RM. In this new communication, I believe that we have moved a little further towards a more precise description of the state of the environment, objectives and instruments, as the Committee on Energy and the Environment asked when the previous communication was discussed. The message has four support columns: Environmental protection policy must be part of all sectors and policies. International environmental protection work needs to be strengthened. A better local anchoring of environmental protection policy is needed. Industrial cooperation shall continue. Let me also highlight some of the most important measures. We will follow up on the proposals for further development of waste policy presented in the previous RM and continuously assess the need for adaptations in the use of instruments. In particular, it would be appropriate to look at the packaging agreements and the final treatment charge. I would also like to point out the need to extend the responsibility of business for the proper management of their own waste and to clarify the boundaries between the responsibilities of municipalities and business in this area. In the light of the Storting's treatment of this notification, we aim to promote a proposition on changes in the pollution law. We will continue the robbery management based on the main lines and targets that Stortinget has drawn up. We shall take sufficient account of the domestic and buffer industries, while ensuring viable predatory game strains. For the year 2000, the management area of the wolf was demarcated in relation to areas with a lot of sheep on the estuary. Within the administrative area now adopted by the Government, a limited number of family groups of wolves will be accepted, in line with guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. There will also be efforts to prevent damage to sheep. Incidents will be committed outside the administrative area, and licensing may also be available. During this year, the population shall draw up management plans in cooperation with the municipalities and organisations concerned, and the municipalities will be more responsible. We want to focus more on environmental considerations in watercourse management. The government has stopped the development of the projects Bjøllåga, Melfjord and Beiarn. These watercourses will be added to the Watercourse Protection Plan. The work of complementing the protection plan, the work of the national salmon rivers and fjords and the implementation of the overall watercourse plan is under way. We want to ensure that reductions in emissions of nitrogen oxides are achieved as quickly as possible in line with our commitment in the Sofia Protocol. The total emissions of Norway were 1 pst in 1999. higher than the emission ceiling in this Protocol. Preliminary figures for 2000 show that emissions were then 5 pst. under the obligation. We aim to implement the most cost-effective measures as soon as possible to avoid the situation in 1999. These are measures that will also be necessary to comply with the even more stringent emission obligation of the 1999 Gothenburg Protocol. The efforts to meet the obligations of the Sofia Protocol will be seen in the context of the implementation of the EU Integrated Pollution Control Directive, the IPPC Directive. We will ensure that reductions in VOC emissions are achieved as soon as possible, in line with the Sofia Protocol. State pollution control has been subject to reduced VOC emissions from loading and storage of crude oil on the base under the pollution law. The threat of man-made climate change is the most serious environmental problem facing the world today. The Government will therefore present its own big message with proposals for action in the short and long term, in line with the Kyoto commitments and intentions of the UNFCCC. In the Communication, presented later this month, we will propose a concrete follow-up to the nomination of the Committee of Quotas under a Kyoto regime and various measures to ensure demonstrable progress in 2005. I agree with the majority’s clarifications on the importance of this and the need to implement national measures without waiting for full international agreement. I share the majority's concern that the United States is considering withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol and will therefore stress the importance of Norway's continued drive towards as broad an international consensus as possible. In line with the government's efforts to extend the responsibilities and powers of municipalities in general, we will strengthen municipal environmental protection. Local authorities will be given increased responsibility, authority and freedom to choose the level of ambition and means to address local environmental challenges. At the same time, the State will clarify its expectations for municipalities regarding environmental challenges of a national or supranational nature in areas such as climate, health and environmental chemicals and biodiversity. I have noticed with pleasure that a broad majority of the committee supports the Government's increased commitment to the municipalities in the environmental protection policy, and like the majority of the committee, I am also very concerned that the municipalities get resources and competence to carry out the new tasks. We will develop a comprehensive and comprehensive policy for the management of marine and coastal areas. This initiative will also be widely discussed in the next major communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state, and will form the basis for Norway's preparations for the fifth North Sea Conference in March next year. In the context of the new EU Water Resource Management Framework Directive, the Government will review Norwegian legislation and practices with a view to more coordinated management of watercourses, coasts and marine areas. With regard to the Committee's views on maritime safety and oil protection, I would like to refer to the statement mentioned in the revised 2001 national budget. In the field of oil protection, the SFT has drawn up analyses and proposals that will be used as a basis for the further work of the Government on the matter, and I will also come back to concrete proposals in the 2002 budget. I have noticed that Stortinget wants a cost-effective solution for the collection and destruction of PCB-containing insulating glass panes. I have already started working to improve the situation. The same applies to proposals for action and cooperation with business, including a possible fund for the clean-up of old environmental sins, where it is important to ensure a future organisation that follows the polluter-pays principle, while taking part in the responsibility of the authorities. I will also come back to this in the context of the 2002 budget. I am pleased that the Committee in its position is concerned with urban development and the need for better public transport. In cooperation with regional and municipal authorities, we will contribute to the development of overall urban area and transport plans, and we will also invite cities and urban areas to experiment with the reorganization and financing of urban transport. This will strengthen the potential for overall priority of investment and operation for all modes of transport, in the context of land use and urban development plans. During the spring, the government has provided two key environmental impact assessments: the open-air message and the biodiversity message. The government's policy in these areas has been fully addressed and the communications will be discussed in this Chamber at a later stage. Let me mention here the important priorities in the field of outdoor life: We will implement further measures to ensure public access to the coastal zone through continued protection of important open air areas, clarification of the right of movement and increased guidance to municipalities and counties. We will also provide children and young people with opportunities for a physically active growth in close contact with nature, by ensuring green areas in the neighbourhood and in the neighbourhood of cities and towns. The biodiversity notification has the sub-title ‘Sectoral responsibility and coordination’, which illustrates the joint responsibility of all sectors in this area. There is an action plan in which 14 ministries have contributed their own chapters, and a management system in which monitoring and monitoring, together with research and information, are to provide more efficient and predictable management of biodiversity. In addition, efforts to coordinate economic and legal instruments will be focused. For example, the bio-diversity law committee has: just started their work. The Labour Party Government budget for 2001 ensured a large increase in the work of cultural memories. There can therefore be no doubt about the willingness of the Labour Party Government to invest in this area. I will, of course, ensure that the concrete cultural memory campaigns on which there is an agreement between the Government and the Stortinget are followed up in the context of the budget. I also refer to the follow-up to Stortinge's comments on the organisation and funding of cultural memory. I have also explained this in various question-time questions. I recall the adoption of the Stortinget proposals in this area late last year, and my follow-up will therefore be reflected in the 2002 budget. With this new communication on the government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state, together with the ministry's environmental action plans, we have been given a stronger framework for environmental protection policy and an opportunity to implement and follow up our environmental policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e682	When the Minister of Environmental Protection was in Stortingen during the last spontaneous Question Time, Stortinget had to remind the Government of the need for respect for the Stortinge in connection with repeated postponements of the climate communication. Recently, it was revealed that funds for the Riksantikvaret that Stortinget granted to Heddal Stavanger Stavanger Cathedral and Utstein Monastery have been redispatched to operations and computer systems, and the funds have even been cut. Then we have received new information now showing that this has happened not only in these areas, but also for coastal culture and ship protection and technical and industrial cultural memories. The increase to the Riksantikvar under cap. 1429.72. of 21.8 million. kr, is distributed for other cultural memory purposes. In addition, contrary to Storting's priorities, as far as we have been informed about, the Riksantikvaren has transferred 4 million. kr from these items for operating expenses and for the purchase of computer services. This is totally unacceptable! Here the Riksantikvar operates completely contrary to the clear priorities of the Storting. Are Storting's priorities to be seen as advisory for the Riksantikvaren and for the Council of State? That could hardly be the case. This is binding, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the will of the Storting is realized. In addition, the cultural memory fund, which was adopted, was to be set up by 2000. Nothing has happened, and now the Workers' Party is not even involved in the decision on the establishment of the Cultural Memory Fund within the State budget for 2002. Should it become a habit that we have to remember the Government about the decision of the Storting? Actually, that's not acceptable. The decision of the Grand Duchy shall be binding on the Government. I would like to ask the Council of State if she will now take responsibility for cleaning up the Riksantik product? It doesn't just seem like this is a case, since we're now experiencing several revelations – it's later to be systematic. Will she clean up the Riksantikvaren and ensure that the Storting's priorities are realised? And will the Council of State now ensure the establishment of the Cultural Memory Fund, so that it becomes operational from 1 January 2002?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e698	I remember the great effort that is made on cultural memories that is in this year's budget. I also remind you that that access to transfer between different items in the budget of the Riksantikvaren, which has been going on for many years, is there because one should have the opportunity to secure the different budgetary priorities of the Storting. There are several important priorities in this year's cultural memory campaign. They are primarily linked to the strengthening of the concrete cultural memory measures such as ship protection, industrial cultural memories and stave churches, but also to the overview, monitoring and recording – not because it is important in itself, but because it is important for this very concrete effort. Of course, it will be my job to ensure that the priorities of the Stortinget in the field of cultural memory, which are also the priorities of the Government, are best followed and, above all, to ensure that we have a concrete focus on the individual cultural memory actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e703	I record that the Council of State boasts of the great effort the Workers' Party has made on the cultural memory side. Then I think with respect to notifying you that it was in agreement with the centre parties that the cultural memory budget was increased by 6 million. kr. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we were in favour of an even greater investment in this area. In the name of justice, it must be said that the Workers' Party has been the brake block when it comes to prioritizing cultural memory protection, compared to both the Centre Parties and the Right. I don't think the Council's answer to Frafjord Johnson's question is satisfactory. The question is what the Council of State has done to ensure that the priorities of the Grand Duchy are followed up. What has been done to ensure that they are followed up? We record that Storting's priorities have not been followed. The size asked for increased appropriations for priority purposes, while the result is that the aid has been reduced. The Council of State indicated that the access of the Riksantikvar to priorities between the various items should be in order to ensure the priorities of the Stortning. The situation is that the opposite has happened, that the Riksantikvaren has used the access to re-prioritisation away from Storting's priorities. The majority of the Storting pointed to the Heddal stave church, the Utstein monastery, the Stavanger cathedral and the technical and industrial cultural memories. These have been prioritised down. We want to know what the Strategies have done and will do to ensure that the Storting's priorities are followed up in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e712	It's a fact that the Labour Party government has made a huge increase in the cultural memory field for this year, but I'm still the first to be very happy that one through the budget agreement in Stortinget got a further increase in this very important area, and I want to do what I can to keep this increase going, so that we get the investment in cultural memories that we deserve. My follow-up is about entering into the individual proposals adopted by the Storting in the field of ship protection, industrial cultural memories and, in the case of stave churches, to mention some of the most important. I would also like to do this in the coming time, with a view to bringing about the concrete strengthening that these cultural memory campaigns deserve, and I would like to ensure that we achieve a good balance between these very concrete measures and measures to be taken to record cultural memories, which will also be important in order to strengthen this. But it can never be that registration itself should go at the expense of getting at this concrete bet. So here's an ongoing work, and I want to ensure, of course, that the government and the Storting are behind in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e721	I assume that it is the state of the kingdom that we are debating here and not revising the national budget, as the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Right clearly add up. The revised national budget shall be examined next Friday. As is well known, Norwegian researchers have long known a means of cracking the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. The means of this is an aluminium-containing liquid that kills the salmon parasite without damaging either the salmon or the aquatic environment. Researchers are now going to use Lærdalselva for research, as a teaspoon. Will the Council of State ensure that other rivers, too, are included in this research as it uses a drug that neither harms salmon nor other lives in the river, but only takes the crack of the salmon parasite? During the budgetary procedure last year, the bulk of the grossing-up granted, all except the Advance Party, was 5 million. kr to eradicate all life in the Rock Skervstrak using the Rotenone. The appropriations were made following the recommendation of the Council of State. Since the Council of State knew about the aluminium method, does she think it was right to poison the Steinkärvassrätte with six and a half tons of environmental poison to kill all life in the river? And: has Rotenon been used for the last time in Norwegian watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e730	Measures to ensure wild salmon strains and to combat salmon and Gyrodactylus salaris are among the most important national environmental tasks. That is why the Government has worked hard to find good solutions that can be more accurate in eradicating Gyrodactylus salary, without imposing major new environmental challenges on ourselves. Unfortunately, it is clear that we do not yet have any patent solutions to achieve this, and it is also true that rotenone treatment has been necessary to attack Gyrodactylus salaris. This has to be done with great caution, but in some cases it will still be necessary, while at the same time using all the forces we have to find out which measures can gradually be replaced for this, which can work even better and not lead to as many other environmental challenges as rotenone provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e735	In my speech earlier today, I was pleased that the Government will transfer a greater share of the responsibility for environmental policy from the central levels of local communities and municipalities. At this point, the government of Stoltenberg continues to lead the policy to the central government, and what is happening here is fully in line with the central party's view of the matter. Now, the Councils of State have also received strong support from the Energy and Environment Committee to bring more power from central to local level. And that state council said in its article today, I perceive as a signal of the will to follow up. But what's hanging over us all — it's also up to the Council of State — is the question of theory and practice, and so it's natural to ask the following questions: Will the Council of State, for example? the fact that local elected bodies play a more important role in predator management?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e741	If we are to achieve the strengthening of environmental protection policy that we are totally dependent on because of the enormous environmental challenges we face in the future, I cannot see any alternative to strengthening local environmental responsibility. It is in this way that we can achieve a stronger anchoring of environmental policy, better cooperation between local authorities and non-governmental organisations in the field, and also gain cooperation where business is included. So this we absolutely have to make sure to follow up in practice. On the other hand, strengthening local environmental responsibility also depends on very clear national and international signals. It is not that a municipality or community can work in vacuum if we are to get a stronger environmental policy. The predatory issues are issues that need national guidelines that follow international guidelines, but which certainly also allow us to have greater local responsibility, and I think that it can also help to prevent some of the more conflicts we see around. I see that the efforts we have made with more local responsibility in predatory policies have led to this – but based on national guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e748	I noticed that, in connection with the mention of cultural protection, the Council of State stated that there can be no doubt about the government's efforts in these areas. And obviously it cannot, because when dealing with the revised national budget, a majority believe that that effort is far too low. As you can see, there may be no doubt about the government's investment in those areas. But I expect the Council of State initially had different opinions about what she said. I also noticed that with regard to the obligations of an international climate agreement, the Council of State states that the Government should continue to be a driver of wide international agreement on such an agreement. In view of the wording when it came to the previous problem, i.e. about cultural memories, where there should be no doubt in an area where there is too little movement, I would like to ask the Council of State: what kind of driving role is the Council of State thinking that the Government should have on this issue? Is there a driving role for a type of agreement that would be more appropriate for Norway, and thus more harmful to the climate? Is that how the Council of States thinks you're still going to be a proponent? Because that is the role that Norway has played for now. Or is it that the Council of State here thinks that its driving role will also have consequences for Norway in terms of environmental and climate policy, for example in relation to gas power stations, in such a way that Norway has to change its climate policy with the consequences it has? Can the Council of State give a more precise answer to what she means by such a driving role, and also if she wants to have a driving role, what could be the reason why that notification is still not available?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e755	It is a fact that the focus on cultural memories in this year's budget is greater than it has been in many years. Nevertheless, it would be absolutely desirable to strengthen the efforts of the years to come. We have so many important cultural memories that it's absolutely more than enough to spend the money on. The government is a driving force in the process of reaching a binding international climate agreement. It is about making the Kyoto Protocol come into force. It is the agreement that the world community needs to have in order to start work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is not correct that the Government has a defensive line in this work. We want an agreement that will have consequences for national climate policies in Norway and in other countries. It will also only be the first step, because – as has been pointed out by several in this room – the climate challenges will require us to go to new emission reductions after the Kyoto Protocol is fulfilled. But now it's about getting that deal on their feet, and in that work, every country is doing the best they can now. We're waiting for and pressing the United States in this work, but we're crystal clear that we want to move on with the climate work anyway. We cannot give up on the framework of an agreement that the world community has negotiated over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e762	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e765	Now it's limited how deep we, who are not represented in this committee, can go into the position, but since we have the ecological balance and sustainable use of marine and earth resources as one of our main issues, we feel absolutely need to get up and comment on parts of the position being addressed today. Then we would like to stress that we are pleased that the problem of deforestation has been addressed in the communication, and that the importance of doing something effective to re-growth the tare forest is underlined by the Committee. On the part of the Coastal Party, we would like to stress the importance of restoring ecological balance in the sea by balancing the extraction of fish and marine mammals, and we are pleased that a research initiative is being undertaken in this area. For what has caused this desertification on the seabed, where the crow's balls are spreading uninhibited? It may have several reasons, and we are pleased that it will be researched and that it is emphasised by the Committee that it is important to do something about this. More research is also needed on algae problems. We are pleased that the Norwegian Shipowners' Association announces that they wish to participate in active cooperation to resolve the problems locally until international rules have been put in place, and we therefore support the Committee's call for the Government to put this problem on the agenda at the North Sea Conference in 2002. We also see this enquiry from the Swedish Shipowners' Association as an initiative to implement local measures in line with the actions of individual countries. We will, of course, support this, but we find it quite remarkable that the Workers' Party does not also find it possible to support this remark. In the case of the large predators, I have to say that we in the Coastal Party are controlled excited, to say it carefully. However, we would like to stress that we support the Committee's recommendation that the core area of yours be phased out if the summer's evaluation shows that the stock is larger than expected. We believe that parts of today's policies give a growing predatory strain priority over established settlements and traditional primary industries in vulnerable areas. We also think it is worth noting that Sweden’s enthusiasm for these large animals can be explained to a large extent by the fact that Sweden has pursued a centralisation policy that has depopulated large sections of border areas towards Norway. The coastal party does not want similar developments in Norway, but we will come back to this when new predator reports are presented in the next period. The Coastal Party will also announce support for an action plan to combat PCBs. This applies to important areas for the whole of Coast Norway – with all the ports and all the pollution lying there, which are old sins in which all the parties on the Stortinget share a shared responsibility to be involved in clearing up. We are otherwise pleased that the Committee stresses the government's responsibility to do its utmost to stop the planned nuclear transport along the Norwegian coast. The threat these transports pose to our coastal waters is difficult to overestimate. On the part of the Coastal Party, we would like to stress the clear responsibility of the Government to put a great deal of pressure on the United Kingdom to stop emissions from Sellafield, which we know is causing us great damage to the coast. As far as the cultural memory fund is concerned, I am glad that Hilde Frafjord Johnson had a line that completely covered what the Coastal Party believes in this area, and also that Jan Tore Sanner so clearly underlined where the responsibility lies, and that in the Stortinget one is very dissatisfied with the way the Government has dealt with this question. It is clear that, in the future, we will need a lot more funding in this area than we see today. Part of our construction is in critically poor condition, and if we're to be able to take care of our common national taxes, then we have to pay for it. Along the coast there are also undiscovered taxes that will require large amounts to be collected from the seabed and taken care of. These are the questions I raised earlier with the Minister for the Environment. But I would like to stress that, so that one in advance prepares for the fact that large counts may be needed in order to provide national taxes of great importance to our own understanding of history and also to international history research. We support the proposal for the allocation of a cultural fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e786	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e789	Let me just start by trying to correct a manifest misunderstanding that has arisen in a succession of lines between Jan Tore Sanner and John Dale on defence facilities. The central parties insist that defence areas released in the context of defence conversions should, as a general rule, be open to the public for open-air purposes. We're going to make sure that from the center parties. In the case of defence buildings, it is put up for the sale of buildings, properties and land that we believe together could amount to approx. NOK 2 billion. Not least this is the case in central strata which could generate relatively high revenues. The areas which are not suitable for open-air use mean that the centre lots can be disposed of. With regard to the debate that has taken place today, many speakers have emphasised that there is a general consensus on key environmental policy challenges, and that is partly correct. But at the same time, it is also important to stress that it should not be deduced that the dividing lines are in the process of being erased in the most important areas. In climate policy, which is the biggest challenge we have, the edges are relatively sharp yet, and there is no reason to hide that in the relationship between the centre parties and the other parties, at least the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, we in the centre parties have a completely different way of attacking that challenge than these other parties want. I think it is important to underline it in the middle of a concerted committee, which would like to be very agreeable and reconciled towards the end of the session. Then to the Minister of Environment's relationship with Stortinget. There are three important points: the Riksantikvaret, the cultural memory fund and the climate communication. All three are examples of the fact that the Storing has actually had to go in and remind the Government that it will follow the decision of the Storing. It's going to be a challenge for both growth and government in the future in a way to keep an alert eye on whether what's about to sneak into this room is going to become a kind of tradition, if the Storting has to expect us to go close to the Government to see if you're actually following what the Bighold decides. As a result, there have become a little sharper edges on the back of this debate, but in my opinion, the Government itself has helped to ensure that we have received it. My question – to the extent that the Council of State wants to take the floor – is a direct extension of Jan Tore Sanner's question, which I felt was not answered, which went on with cultural memory funds. Will this be established during 2001 or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e806	The Council of State is quite right that the Government prioritised the cultural memory work in the budget. It was a significant addition. The size followed this up by adding a significant amount. The problem is that this money does not reach the addressee. This is not just a matter of a simple purchase of a few million dollars, but it is a systematic bottling of this account for priority cultural memory measures, which are used for entirely different purposes. This has a scale that makes it necessary to clean it up. It is not enough for the Council of State to say that a current one will follow. There is a need to go inside and clean up, so that you get this on the rails again. Otherwise, there will have to be consequences for the authority of the Riksantikvaren to redispatch in order to set a priority in line with what the Stortinget has decided, when he actually uses the authority to go other than those who are strung out. It is also the case that the Council of State in this Chamber has repeatedly been reminded of priorities, including: in the case of Stavanger Cathedral. Likewise, this is not fully followed up from the Riksantikvaren, so that it is not only the Riksantikvaren that has not followed up. Nor has the Council of State done well enough. Then I have two concrete things that I didn't have time to go into my article enough. Facilitating the making available to the public of defence properties and lighthouses is an important part of the Government’s policy in the area of the open-air sector. My question to the Council of State is whether she wants to make contact with the Minister of Finance and other government councils involved to avoid that valuable properties, lighthouses, are now to be made a store with, with the consequence that an outdoors council cannot acquire them, and it becomes private that buys them instead. It can't be that the state spends millions of dollars on buying property from others to add it to the public, and then it sells its own properties – the internal files in many cases – to private ones. Here there must be a connection between what the Government does in one area and what it does in other areas. And then there's a specific case in relation to shipping. It also states that one should intensify and work to avoid a breakdown and that one should clarify the responsibilities so that cleaning can take place more quickly. So now there's been a boat outside the municipality of Karmøy since Christmas 1st, 1999, and one can't get to the point. Can the Council of State confirm that this is a matter she wants to look at in order to bring about an arrangement? It says about the means to get this sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e819	There are two things I want to touch on at the tame of the debate. One is that when we are in the process of producing and, to an even greater extent, looking for oil and gas in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, it is very important that the Government does not rest on the ground in terms of environmental monitoring and conditions related to preparedness in these areas. We are in the most sensitive areas, where environmental vulnerability is at the top, no matter where we may be in Europe. And it's important that the environments we have in place locally in these areas, whether in the Norwegian Sea or in the Barents Sea, are allowed to participate in development, so that we can get a situation where oil, fish and the environment can go hand in hand, and also have credibility and local upliftment when you're going to start gradually with an even greater degree of production than what's real today. The other relationship I want to record is that there is nothing that pollutes and destroys more along the Norwegian coast than the radioactive substance technetium. Compared to all the other forms of pollution we have along the Norwegian coast today, it has an irreversibility in itself that you do not see or know the reach of. The degradation time of the substance technetium is more than 200,000 years! Now, when we see that UK environmental authorities are applying for new emission permits at the same level as today, for six new years, this has effects along the Norwegian coast. In particular, along the south and west, it may have fatal effects, especially on the industry involved in the marine sector. And I wish that the current government could have the same strength in its protest about the conditions of the discharges from Sellafield, which go with the ocean currents up Skagerrak and Kattegat, which the Labour Party government had ten years ago, cf. then Minister for the Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen, by his colleague in the British Government. The situation has far from improved; it has become much, much worse. Then the commitment and protests should have been proportionate to the evolution we've seen, because this is the most harmful pollution we have along the Norwegian coast today, and it's forever devastating.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e830	I just have to be allowed to applaud Ivar Kristiansen's posts. It was very eloquent for the concern that exists along the coast. Also, I need to take the word for a little extra post, because of things I didn't have time to take up in my main post. I'm actually asking for something about the king crab in the setting. The King crab, which has come to us in recent years, and which is now on a trek down the coast, is a phenomenon that must be kept under very close observation. What does this growth in our marine areas mean for the rest of our lives? What does it mean for the ecological balance? I would like to stress the need to keep an eye on developments in the areas where the king crab is established and where it is walking, so that measures are put in place to prevent this new species from overstepping established traditional species, and thus tend to distort the balance of these areas in a way that we do not have a full overview of today. Furthermore, a reasonable extraction of this king crab would be commendable. Then, during the debate, a slightly different view emerged of whether central or local authorities should have a primary responsibility for the environment. I would like to stress that the local people have taken care of their own environment until the Storting has begun to assume that responsibility in recent years. It is not always that the decisions taken here in Stortinget are equally fortunate for the local environment along the coast. Among other things, there has been a ban on movement and activity in areas where human activity has helped to maintain a good balance between different species. And where one now is not allowed to run this activity, a very flowering of e.g. oter and mink, and their dredging in relation to birds and other species in these areas, create an imbalance in the environment that was not present at the time when the local population itself was responsible for caring for its surrounding environment. I would like to stress that no one is more concerned with the balance of his community than those who live there. It is a relationship that must not be forgotten. One should not underestimate the local knowledge that local communities possess, and be a little careful to intervene and override them in key plans, where experience in individual areas that benefit the environment is sometimes lacking when the local population is left to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e843	Since the question of cultural memory was raised again at the bottom of the debate, I would like to confirm and re-examine what I said in my previous posts. Of course, I am working on a follow-up to the Stortinge observations on the cultural memory fund, and I will present proposals to the Stortinge on this in the context of the 2002 budget. I also want to confirm that the cultural memory priorities for which the Stortinget and the Government stand, of course, go to the addressee, and that the government's work on this continues with full weight. In the case of fireworks, which also came up on the tap here, these are absolutely among the properties that it will be important to ensure in relation to outdoor purposes more places in the country, and the work on prioritising and getting opportunities for this is high on my work list. Since the Sellafield issue was also addressed, I would like to recall the weight and strength of the government in its work towards the UK authorities at different levels. Nor is it always that the shape of that work is identical to that of the force, and since Thorbjørn Berntsen was mentioned here, at least it is a fact that the form that was used at the time has not solved the problems. We are still facing this challenge, but it is a serious challenge to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e853	I'm glad we've now got a clarification on the cultural memory fund. I understand that the 2002 budget will put forward proposals for the creation of a cultural memory fund. When I take the floor, it's because the Council of State says that the Government and the Council of State will continue to work to follow up the priorities of the Storing. When I pick that up, it's precisely because we've been able to see that Storting's priorities have not been followed up. So what's the point of continuing to follow up the priorities? Does this mean that the Council of State agrees with the central parties and the Right that it is not acceptable for the Riksantikvar to prioritize cultural memories that the Stortinget has said should be given priority? Will the Council of State ensure that the cultural memories mentioned by the Storting should be given priority over the current year? These are key questions, because I do not think it is satisfactory that the Council of State says that we will continue to work, when we have been able to see that what the majority of the Grand Duchy has said is to be done, has actually not been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e860	I would once again like to confirm that the cultural memory priorities of the Stortinget and the Government are to be followed up in this way in order to respond to concrete measures. We will have the right balance between registration and concrete actions – concrete vessel protection projects, stave church projects and industrial cultural memory projects, to mention some, which means strengthening them in line with what the Storting has decided. We have to make sure that the balance of these points becomes so that we get a strengthening of the concrete measures beyond what we have seen expressed so far this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e865	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see pages 3485 and 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e879	The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Left, refers to letters from the Council of State Bjerke, where the proposals are made in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001, municipality, county, state – a better division of tasks. However, the majority of the Committee agrees with the reference made by the proposers to the fact that the process of planning matters is very often taking too long. The majority therefore believe it would be natural to ask the Government to facilitate the introduction of deadlines for the processing of private control plans by municipalities, without weakening the quality and thoroughness of the process. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, seem to need to strengthen local self-government and that it can best be done at the expense of reduced government governance and local involvement. Municipalities should be able to take final decisions in planning and regulatory matters without intervention by general authorities, in order to ensure greater respect for local policy decisions and decisions, and to be final, and not be subject to periodic review and infringement by State authorities. There are no deadlines for the treatment of private regulatory plans by municipalities. In many cases, this has resulted in a very long and costly process, so that developers have to wait a long time to realise their projects. The minority in the Committee believes that the use of time-limits will be an important instrument to ensure the better and faster progress of private regulatory plans. So I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e894	The representative of Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not preferred the word on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e910	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e924	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e938	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e952	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e966	I expect this to take place fairly quickly, but the Right and the Advance Party have a proposal on the matter which obviously needs to be put forward. I would otherwise just say that this is an unproblematic matter, but you world as long as it's taken! The case of the Swedish Railway Agency's fibre cable network has been going on for several years. It was actually up in both 1996 and 1997, when Telenor was going to rent it in his own time. Then ESA came in, and came back and said it wasn't an occasion, and then this case has wandered. But let's not spend a long time on this. Now we're there. Of course, I would have preferred that this had been converted into a private company, but at least we have converted it into an AS, and hopefully it is possible to make some money on this – to the delight of all of us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e975	The representative of Nilsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e991	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1005	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each, and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1014	As will be evident from the suspension, there is a broad consensus on the importance of coordinating the resources to contribute to the ‘strengthening of Norwegian food security and the development of Norwegian high-quality competitive agricultural products’, to quote part of the document No. The 8th proposal. However, when the Committee has shared its comments, it is primarily due to the need for a majority to distance themselves from the description of reality made by the proposers initially in the proposal. In our opinion, the negative description of today's agricultural production and food industry by the proposers is not covered. It's e.g. no basis for claiming that the focus that has been on price and volume has given us poorer product quality, and that recent years’ development has weakened the guarantee that the food we eat is clean and safe – not at all the last. In my opinion, the various actors in the industry have always been concerned with producing safe food. It's not that strange either, because it's basically about the entire industry's future. Several studies have also shown that Norwegian consumers have high confidence in the food produced in Norway. Yes, there is already a basis for highlighting Norway as a priority country for clean and safe quality food. Nor can I see that the agricultural report presented by the Bondevik Government, which was discussed a year ago by the Stortinget, provides the basis for the conclusions of the proposers. I therefore rather believe that the introduction of the proposalers must be seen as an accident at work. Therefore, the comments of the majority are relatively mild, both in form and content. That the Left found that there was a basis for a special comment, I find natural. As indicated in the submission, an overall committee has not found the basis for asking the Government to propose to improve the coordination of resources, such as Document No. The 8's add up. On this occasion, I will refer in particular to the letter from the Department of 10 May of this year to the Committee. Here the department shows, among other things: to the value creation programme, the main purpose of which is to contribute to higher value creation both in primary production and processing. The Government considers that the instrument should have a common understanding and strategy on how to make Norwegian agricultural production more competitive. The starting point will be a differentiated market strategy, one of which has its main competitive advantage in Norwegian food safety, distinctiveness and high quality. The Ministry concludes that coordination of resources will be one of the areas that will be continuously assessed in the context of the further development of a more competitive Norwegian food production. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the representative from the Left, points out that the value creation programme will be able to respond satisfactorily to the wish of the proposers for a new coordination programme. This programme also aims to identify and remove bottlenecks in the system, thereby helping to ensure that rigid legislation does not prevent the start-up of small-scale food production. – Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the word ‘not’ has fallen out of the setting for some strange reason. The small word is essential in this context. The majority share the views of the proposers on the need to facilitate increased niche production and agree that there is a high potential for cooperation where local producers can further process local raw materials. It is therefore important, of course, that public policy does not prevent, but helps to promote, this type of production. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee asks the Government to inform the Government in an appropriate way about the progress of its work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1038	We have had several issues in the committee where we have actually affected this area – value creation in food, niche production, etc. It is a comprehensive work ahead of us. I'll show you that in connection with Ot.prp. No 85 has actually given a huge mission to the ministry, and it's exciting to see what can come out of it. But if we compare ourselves to France, there are 20 pst. of the foods are niche products, we are basically very poor. A great deal of effort is required to get a good track in this area. The cooperative organisations say that they have some products that can come under the new brand scheme – which we will talk about in another case. Two or three types of cheeses and a few liquid dairy products may be considered relevant. About the same is the situation in the meat sector. However, there is reason to believe that the labelling system can be an incentive to re-invent products that have lost some of their identity through standardisation, so that the number of products can increase over time. And if the effort to build up a labelling system for agricultural products based on geographical origin, tradition and peculiarity is to succeed, financial resources must be made available. This is a common practice in all countries, and it is in line with the WTO rules on aid limitation that public funds should be used to initiate such work. We feel that we have affected this in a lot of cases, and are now awaiting the work of the Government. I also show that similar comments have been made in connection with the reindeer notification. I think we should have a regulation in Norway that makes dry fish legal to sell, and that dried reindeer meat is legal to sell. It is the quality of the final product that must be decisive and we must not be overly demanding in relation to the processing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1051	Proposals focus on an important theme in the food sector: the development of competitive high-quality food and the pooling of resources to achieve this. We are in the middle of a debate on food prices and margin surveys to prevent the planned halving of food tax on 1 July from benefiting consumers in the form of lower food prices. However, what is important to establish in this context is that Norwegian agriculture cannot be the cheapest in the world. But Norwegian agriculture can create greater values than today. A good many Norwegian consumers are willing to pay more for the right products according to their own preferences. The niche market is already a significant market in growth, and it is not least a more robust market. We experience a trend in which consumers increasingly demand high-quality raw materials, like specialities, the original and the surprising. To succeed in developing Norwegian farm food and Norwegian specialities – really bet on niches – a heavy and long-term, targeted effort is needed. In the examination of the agricultural notification, there was broad agreement to establish an own value creation programme for Norwegian agriculture, a major alliance for Norwegian food, involving key actors in agriculture and the food industry. Competition strategies for Norwegian food are included in this programme. With the efforts made, there should be good opportunities for increased production of high-quality competitive foods. It involves higher value creation both in primary production and processing as part of strengthening Norwegian food production. Coordination and organisation for, inter alia: achieving synergies will be at the heart of the value creation programme. The government is required to inform the Storting about the development. The Party considers that the considerations sought by the proposers are adequately taken into account in the work in progress towards the development of competitive quality foods. We therefore do not see it as desirable or appropriate to make further proposals on this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1064	Food safety and high-quality agricultural products have rightly received increased focus in recent years. Increased demand has been recorded by consumers for high-quality, safe and distinctive products. This demand will increase provided that the right grips and initiatives are taken. The food placed on the market in Norway shall be safe. The demand for ever cheaper food must not be met at the expense of safe food produced in an environmentally and sustainable way. This also includes strict requirements for animal welfare. Both traditional agriculture and organic farming must, of course, meet these requirements. Animal diseases in a number of countries on the continent have led to a shift of focus in agricultural policy from the lowest price to the healthiest and good food that consumers can rely on. This should also be a reminder for Norwegian agricultural policy, with the consequence that the focus on the cheapest food should be somewhat reduced. A strong focus on the cheapest food is difficult to combine with the production of high-quality, healthy food and good animal health. We have a good food security situation in Norwegian agriculture today, and we need to facilitate and take care of it and ensure it in the future as well. The somewhat negative description contained by the proposers in their introduction can be interpreted in different ways, but there is probably more to be seen than a description of the current situation. A good measure for which there are high expectations is the value creation programme. This shall contribute and contribute to the development of high-quality specialised food for sale in markets with a high level of willingness to pay, which contribute to the increased value creation of primary producers. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee agrees with the rapporteurs that increased niche production is important, that policies must promote such production, and that cooperation between research and development institutions and agriculture' own businesses is important. In this context, good coordination of resources earmarked for the development of competitive agricultural products, Norwegian food culture and food security is also important. The majority agree that coordination of the resources of the different actors is important. The rapporteurs are very pleased with this. The majority also ask the Government to inform the Storting in an appropriate way about progress in coordination, and I am confident that this will be done in a good way, as a real basis for discussion in these cases. As a result, the intentions of the proposal have been respected. Finally, I allow myself to promote the minority proposal in the vote and ask for support for it. After I have registered a signal to me, SV will also support the proposal. Several are welcome after.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1081	The representative of Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1084	In the proposal of representatives Terje Johansen and Leif Helge Kongshaug, there is a critical light on the development of Norwegian food culture, and it is claimed that the focus on price and volume has led to a weakening of Norwegian food culture and poorer product quality. I do not agree with this description, nor can I see that there is a basis for saying that developments in recent years have weakened the guarantee that the food we eat is clean and safe. On the contrary, I would argue that Norway is a leading country in terms of clean and safe quality food. I am pleased to note that the majority of the Business Committee shares my view on this. When the proposers call for a new programme to help develop Norwegian competitive agricultural products with a distinctive and high quality, I would point out that this is exactly what the Government has done. The Norwegian food production value added programme was established at the turn of the year and the main objective of the programme is to contribute to higher value creation both in primary production and processing by making better use of market opportunities. The main strategy of the first phase of the programme is as follows: ‘The Valuation Programme shall facilitate primary producers and food businesses developing high-quality specialised food for sale in high-payability markets and contributing to increased value creation for primary producers.’;» At the time of the establishment of the Norwegian food production value added programme, the Norwegian food competition strategy programmes/activators were also part of this programme. Competition strategies shall be adapted to the strategy of the value creation programme and an evaluation of the competition strategies prior to the agricultural negotiations in 2002. With this effort, the Government considers that the instrument should have a common understanding and strategy on how Norwegian agricultural production can be made more competitive on the basis of a differentiated market strategy. The establishment of the value creation programme and the coordination with the competition strategies should contribute to positive synergies, and some of them are continuously assessed in the context of the further development of a more competitive Norwegian agricultural production. I note that the majority of the Business Committee agrees with this, and the Government will inform the Storting in an appropriate way about progress in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1113	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3489]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1126	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1133	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 2–5, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 6-9, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1146	In the light of the debate we have now had, and what the Council of State Siri Bjerke has expressed in relation to proposal No. 1. that this will be carried out in line with the text and intention of the proposal, we will request that this proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1151	The President will allow himself to ask if it was not possible to draw it. In reality, the same treatment is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1154	We're not subtracting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1159	I just need to notify the vote from the Coastal Party. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1 against proposal No 2 against proposal No 3 for proposal No 4 and against proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1166	Then we first take up proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, which have been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government follow-up of the decision of the Storting in the Innst. S. No 256 on the establishment of a cultural memory fund in the context of the 2002 State budget.’.» [[1999 - 2000]] The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 6, 7, 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a ban on the use of chromium, copper and arsenic in the impregnation of wood, at the latest in the 2002 budget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the first national targets for waste management to read as follows: the development of generated quantities of waste shall be significantly lower than economic growth and not exceed the level in 2002.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions shall not be more than 1 per cent higher in 2012 than they were in 1990.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals on how to phase out the operation of the Halden reactor, with measures on how to replace the disappearing workplaces by other industrial activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1205	Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up protection plans to ensure our maritime resources and to ensure their sustainable management.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose measures to address the 50 pst national target. reduction of nitrogen emissions, by 2005, from 1985, can be achieved, at the latest in the 2003 budget, or in the next state of the state of the kingdom.’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a proposal for ratification of the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 6th Conference of the Parties in Bonn, Germany.’ [[COP 6]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1231	Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess marine protected areas in areas where the petroleum activity is likely to conflict with fisheries and environmental interests, and to propose such areas in the next major communication on the Government’s environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1253	The President is a little uncertain about what the Socialist Left and Left want to do about the setting. Is there any wish to vote against? At least the President has made it clear that there is a possible option.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1265	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1270	Then 94 votes were cast for the setting and 12 votes against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1282	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1302	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1340	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1400	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: «By the end of 2001, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for time-limits fora) State bodies’ objections to general and regulatory plans andb) the duration of the treatment of private regulatory plans by municipalities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1434	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left sent by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 May 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Energy Act and to promote any legislative changes to ensure that more energy sources can be seen in the context and that account is taken of the development of new renewable energy sources, the development of waterborne heat, etc.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1451	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Hilde Frafjord Johnson, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 30 May 2001: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the review of the Energy Act, to submit proposals for the adjustment of the Energy Act’s objective paragraph where environmental considerations and energy efficiency are better and more specifically covered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1468	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 30 May 2001: «The Government asks the Government in the regulation of the Energy Act § 3-4 nr. 5 cf. § 7-6 sets out clear requirements for safe and appropriate operation, as well as adequate competence in the context of the removal of operations. Such requirements should be strict in order not to create uncertainties about operational safety, maintenance and preparedness.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1474	Since this proposal has in fact fallen due to the vote of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, the proposal can be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1481	It cannot be drawn. The President will recommend that we vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1493	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 May 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals further limiting the possibility of privatising ownership in the power sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1508	During the debate, Mr Nilsen presented the following proposals on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to sell the State’s shares in BaneTele’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1695	During the debate Leif Helge Kongshaug presented the following proposals on behalf of the Left: ‘Document No. 8:96 shall be annexed to the Protocol.» [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07.ana.ud2377e1717	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right from the meeting of the Odelsting on 1 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the exercise of market regulation in the cereals sector by the authorities.’
