ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e125	The called alternates of the Finnmark County, Inger Lise Balandin and Kirsti Saxi, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Anita Apelthun Sæle on sick leave from 13 June until further notice from the Workers' Group on welfare leave for the representative Leif Lund from the evening meeting on Wednesday 13 June until 15 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives of the Hordaland County, Kari Manger and Kurt-Arne Langeland are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Kari Manger is elected to the Lamentation for the time she meets the representative of Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e167	Kurt-Arne Langeland is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 7 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e190	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 70 minutes, Christian People's Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Party 25 minutes, Party 20 minutes, Party of Socialist Left 15 minutes, Left 10 minutes, People's Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e201	At first it is probably best that I bring what is called corrections and additions. Despite relatively long and persistent meetings, a few errors have occurred. As regards proposal No: 32, a rich text is distributed in the hall. Then in the setting under XXII point 1, add: and at the garrison in Porsanger – how could we forget it! XXXIII has fallen out. The Committee therefore promotes this as a separate proposal, proposal No. 54 and the text is: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a status-enforcement measure for defence officers.’ So for the treatment of today's setting, Innst. S. No 342. The approach is based on a solid basis through the Defence Manager’s study, through the Defence Policy Sample, and the long-term message, as it was called earlier, has been presented as a proposition. It's a dramatic change of defense, the most dramatic after the war. And a lot of us would say, like the Progress Party, that it's not just a change of gear and a change of defense, it's also a sharp decline. The Committee has conducted a significant number of consultations, and the document has contributed to a very wide debate on defence, of course also a debate on the minor details, which may sometimes tend to overtake. The whole point of departure, through the underlying documents, has been a somewhat unusual approach in many ways: what kind of defense can you go out and buy for approx. $35 billion? In the opinion of the chairperson of the committee, this is not a suitable starting point. The more traditional, a security policy-based analysis, proposals for action on how to meet the challenges militarily, what structures this should be based on, and then finally the bill for what you want would be the normal procedure. So the starting point is going to be a little bit weird. Then someone would say, "Yes, so the result has also become strange." In the security policy section of the document, there are many ways in which there is a significant convergence between the different fractions. What I think is important to emphasise is that the security policy objectives are firm – which is supported by the Committee – and they are based on what was the premise of St. Announcement. No 22 for 1997-98. Norway is in a special situation. We are in a corner of the world that has lost focus in many ways, but has not become less important to it. So we can't explain ourselves from the situation we're in, with a considerable responsibility for the Barents Sea, where we have huge resources to care for and monitor. We still record unresolved problems related to the grey zone. We mainly see a more offensive Russian foreign policy, and not least a more centralised policy linked to the management of the Barents region and Norway. So we can't get away with that. It is a trend that in many ways now points in a direction that we should be aware of. It has been essential for the Progress Party to think about the future structure. The focus on the north is also on the environment. But I think we should be aware that with a Norway lying outside the EU, with significant changes within the second part of NATO's sphere of interest, with conversions within NATO, and not least with an obvious reversal of the US's thinking in relation to Europe, and perhaps also in relation to us, we have a challenge that we have to bear on our own responsibility for. Then it's a fundamental question if we handle this responsibility in a way that enables us to meet the challenges of the future. At the same time as the conversion into NATO, the EU approach to defence is taking place in a new way, where we come to the side in many ways. The Defence Capabilities Initiative places great demands on how we are going to be involved in material development and participate in our way in joint efforts. It takes money. At the same time, the consequence of our own situation is that we ourselves need to ensure a proper balance between what needs to be done for purely national defence, i.e. in-place forces that are now popularly called, and international operations. Then I guess it's not to stick under a chair. [[a cell phone rings in the hall]] I note that it is one of those who are linked to the defence policy objectives and to the defence concept. On the part of the Progress Party, we have pointed to the need to secure an economy linked to the defence we want. We have ended up with a principle of funding based on stability and predictability at the bottom. The government party has also said that, but what do you experience? One of the really big variables, the costs of international operations, is now being added to the framework. Although during the process the framework of the Workers' Party has increased from 28 billion DKK per person. on average over the four-year period, to NOK 28,5-28,6 billion, and the intermediate batches have torched to about EUR 20 million. So 29 billion dollars, the Advance Party has gone to 30,1 billion dollars. It doesn't sound like the big gap. But the purpose of this is to carry out international operations outside the framework, as the Storting has previously said. It gives a greater degree of predictability. In addition, we have brought in some of the most important things and that attract the most money throughout the period, and there is funding for new aircraft to replace F-16. And why -- say someone -- masturbate with this now? The point is, if we don't make decisions now, we don't get a result of this when we need it. The costs of this will be distributed over a 20-year period of approximately SEK 1.5 billion a year. If we lift this out of the framework and co-finance it – Norway can afford it – it will give room to bring forward a new structure safer. We have said that the same should apply to the replacement of our transport fleet, which is mainly on the ground. It should be obvious to the others that this is something you should have grasped. That's just half-hearted and half-hearted. It is clearly recognised that there is a need to tackle, but then one has been apprehended by finance ministers of different categories. It's uncertain where this leads. What the Storting has now done, plus what we have done in the Progress Party – we have wanted to get an army for the future of four brigades as a minimum, with support troops, we have wanted to get a home protection with today's structure, which the Government had brought down to 60,000, but where it has been under pressure during the process let itself go back to the starting point, it might well be thought a little over in advance – has helped us to get a new structure. MTBs are now inserted. We have got a somewhat more robust structure. I just want to emphasize in a statement that if we don't have the power to lift the army structure up – here, unfortunately, the middle parts become weak in the knees when it rains on, they wouldn't build up to the structure of a full four brigades, because they were afraid this would cost – and don't make sure to have a breadth and depth in the army, it will also be impossible for the future to recruit for international operations, which, of course, is what the government is focusing so strongly on. Here it is that the majority brings the Government into Norwegian soil to a greater extent than the Government obviously wanted to participate in advance. When this is calculated and calculated – we've got preliminary figures as we see that this is probably more expensive than anyone had planned – we get this number material clear, and then we see how this can be secured and secured. I know a lot of people have thought about getting a settlement, and the council has gone in to get a settlement, but then it had to be possible to talk about a settlement like a bottom plank. We don't yet know what this costs, and consequently such a settlement must be built on a minimum, not a maximum, it gives no freedom of action in this. So there has been a certain refusal to pay what you want. The Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have in many ways wanted the same thing as the Advance Party, but they have tried to do it as cheaply as possible. And it's not that you can get everything at a low price, it gives you a very bad defense. If you, for example, rates of collection of the economy related to gate money, as it might be tempting to assume in the Center Party, collecting environmental pledges in bottles, which perhaps the Left does, and or applying the collection principle in the case of the Christian People's Party, it becomes difficult to obtain credible funding. On the part of the Progress Party, we have taken responsibility for this. A number of other fundamental aspects are amended by the proposal. First of all, it is the great leading star of the Department: to merge the Ministry of Defence, the FD, and the Defence Command, the FO, or what remains of the Defence Command, into an integrated unit. The majority have clearly said that we don't want that. We've been in favour of a co-location, which means that in our opinion we're going to have a head of defense as an independent, visible part of the Defense, and we've even said in a majority remark that the Chief of Defense's instructions should be continued. That means we want a defense chief who is visible and clear, and not wrapped up in a department to be invisible. In the significant conversion that takes place, there is a dramatic conversion of management and control apparatus and command-command apparatus. It is absolutely necessary, and it is regrettable that the leadership of the defense itself has not grasped this much earlier. The warning shots arrived early in the 1990s, and then you started, and then it all worked out. Now this must happen! It simply means that there must now be a better relationship between those to lead and those to be led. And that's what the whole setting emphasizes in many ways about that part. So it's not going to get away from the fact that a significant debate has arisen around the future Joint Operational Headquarters. Here, a majority, consisting of the Right Party and the Workers' Party, have gone to Jåttå at Stavanger, and there are good arguments to choose it. But there are also other and very good arguments to choose Retan in the north. We will learn more about this in the course of the debate. An important part of this is also the migration and related costs. The conversion costs have been added by NOK 10 billion. So it's not cheap to put in. In this process, it is also announced that a reduction in activity and a reduction in material investment can be expected. This is something the Progress Party does not want. We've put in a certain increase in the economy to improve on this, because if the conversion takes a long time, that means that all the other activity is subdued down to a level that's not sound. In the case of the duty of protection, it is established. There are differing views on how long the term of protection should be in Homeland. Others will come up with this later. I would like to point out that we now need to take a strong hold on maintaining the competence of the Defence Force, a competence that is not only attached to the Professional Corps, but also to the Spare Command. For this reason, the Committee has taken action and made a proposal in Roman form to set up a sample to further assess the role of the reserve order, because it is a significant component of our forces involved in international operations. The Committee broadly agreed on the long-term prospects and challenges in the future. We have a very risky period ahead of us if the economy is not put in place, because the cost development is as strong as it is. It's a challenge for everyone. The party of progress is willing to take it. With this, I address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e258	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e263	After working with Hans J. Røss grounde on the defense committee for four years, I have learned to appreciate both his knowledge of the defense, his good memory, and not least his good mood and humor. I've also learned that when it comes to the world around us, Hans J. Røssorde and I don't have exactly the same view. There is also disagreement between us in terms of defence policy objectives and how much will be used for defence. What surprises me this time, however, is the non-will of the Progress Party to make drastic changes in the number of garrisons. I am very surprised that the involvement of the Progress Party in the region of the East has not resulted in a larger gathering of the Defence in the Østerdal garrison. The progress party has chosen to keep the Whalsmoen and Haslemoen for a while – how long do they not say? I ask: Why does the Progress Party undermine the establishment of the region field, and how long do they think that the Hvalsmoen and Haslemoen will last? They also propose to keep Stavern and Lahaugmoen. How should operations be reduced when they retain so many garrisons? He himself stressed in his post that the conversion should not take long. In my view, this is undermined by the proposals put forward by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e272	I didn't intend to sign out greetings here. So I've represented the Progress Party and not myself, I want to underline it. It is, then, the view of the Advancement Party that is being attacked. Well, we've assumed that the structure we want, it's peace structure or war structure, and the last is, however, the most important thing, we're willing to pay for. I do not see the same willingness to pay at the Workers' Party. That's a low figure. And I want to underline something I didn't get in my post: the structure that was originally proposed, has many with good professional understanding claimed to be underfunded. If that's the case, then we're going to get completely out of control, and that's what the Workers' Party should take inwards. Perhaps there is too much communication with the Minister of Finance – what do I know? A lot could suggest that. If you want something, you have to pay. Here lies the difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. It's true that we've said that we want to keep some garrisons a little bit longer. The reason is that it costs a huge amount of money to invest. The progress of Rena hopes that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party will be successful. What we're saying is, start with what it's going to start with, see what can be used by existing garrisons, and let this work. In the case of Stavern, which was pointed out, we have thought that Stavern is suitable if you add enough education there. It's the exact same thing as – as you point out – putting something else there. Management training and MP training can be put in the main lines where there is capacity. That's what the Working Party does. There is also a bit of district policy in the Workers' Party – I have noticed that the hornwinds have frightened the Workers' Party during the last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e283	I find the tone of the committee's chairman to be regrettable. I had expected a more serious mention of the extensive investigation work carried out by the central parties, but I leave to my colleague, former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad, to answer that question. The representative Røsjorde has in the past been concerned with rolling over those who will weaken the duty of protection. I have a little magazine in previous reports and seen that he has done it. One of the most eye-catching things now is that we get an alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in terms of eroding the protection obligation. In the setting, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party agree on a comment on a scheme such as 'will give a call percentage of about 50'. When we know that about 13 pst. failure after attendance is normal, this means that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, with open eyes, propose that hardly 40 pst. by the persons liable for protection to perform the duty of protection. It was just this that many in very tough order teams criticized the government for when the conversion proposition was presented in February this year. I allow myself to refer from an opinion The Central Government of the Progress Party published on 16 February under the title ‘Never more than 9 April’. There, the Progress Party expresses ‘great concern’ that the Stoltenberg Government is promoting proposals which in effect result in ‘a breach of the principle of a defence obligation’. Now the Progress Party is making itself co-responsible for this erosion. And not only that, they also break with the Progress Party's own program. That's what it says. ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers wishes to continue the duty of protection for all fit for service.’ I would like to ask the representative Røsjorde whether it is really true that the Progress Party has such a negative view of Norwegian sheltered youth that they regard half as unfit for duty. Either that is the case, or the Progress Party is breaking this with its security programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e297	I had not expected such a strong hair ulcer after a little comment on how to collect money in this world. But once it's entered, I can't do much with it. The issues raised by the obligation to protect are far more timely. The basis for the Advance Party has been the creation of a structure that allows maximum service to be provided. By increasing the staffing of Homeland Security, we achieve that – which is something quite different from what the Government initially provided – and by increasing the army structure and increasing the war structure associated with Maritime Defense, we do that too. We have pointed out in our remarks that it is essential that we receive command training at the level of the troops and companies that is greater than the structure needs, in order to have a reserve to be able to rebuild – if you mean anything with the ability to rebuild. All of this contributes to more service. Of course, we have registered that if you wanted to take out every protective person that – I kept saying – could be used, we would train for a structure that does not exist. It would be in many ways to give people an education, so not to give them any tasks. It's important that we make sure that we get the most out. And no one has a patent solution to this. The solution to Mr. The giant party is calling the whole coal into some kind of community service, which you, in line with the Workers' Party, will now have investigated. We have a duty to protect. From the Progress Party we want the most fit in uniform. Because bias arises, we want to reward those who do the job, among other things. to increase the termination allowance. We have asked for a tax deduction as compensation, in line with the principles we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e308	As the representative, Mr Rise, I would also like to begin by saying that the case-rapporteur, who is also the chairman of the committee, could have spared the remarks he made about the grind money and the collection, which underline the representative's prejudices about the centre parties. I had expected a case rapporteur to be more factual and serious in his main post here in the Chamber. The Centre Parties have developed a comprehensive alternative to the Government's arrangements. We've worked hard on that, including the economy. As a former Minister of Finance, I have had particular attention to the economy. We don't want to be involved in adopting a structure that can't be fully financed. The progress party is on the expenditure side and would like to have the structure for which we are, but they have refused – or refused – to participate in the necessary cuts. As usual, the Advance Party will solve everything with more money for the Defense. It doesn't solve the problems. It can only cement one too expensive structure. Moreover, I have noticed that every year, when we discussed the budget, the Progress Party has proposed NOK 1 – 1.5 billion more to the Defence Agency. Now we see in this case that when the defence is to be streamlined, the Progress Party is suddenly in need of far more than NOK 1 – 1.5 billion extra, as the party has previously proposed in the budget. I am summing the amount to about 33–35 billion kroner – five–seven billion more per year. year of the Government's proposal. This must be seen as a strong criticism of the Progress Party's own proposals in all year's budgets. What explanation does the representative Røsjorde have that the Progress Party will again be best just by adding more money on the table and not by participating in the changes that are required here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e317	It can't be a goal to have as much as possible in uniform, which for overmeasures may also be bad, without sufficiently modern equipment. That's the consequence of spreading everything out. I feel that the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are contributing. We've been on a cut – significant cut. We've been involved in shutting down garrisons, at least we've suggested shutting down garrisons, just to save and to reduce the operation. The centre party has helped to maintain operations throughout the country. Then you can probably discuss the considerable work that has been done by the middle parties, and I think you'll find a good deal of question marks related to the saving methodology. Here we have said that we see that it is necessary to modernise the defence. We know that it must have equipment and weapons that are adapted to the environment it is going to meet. Unfortunately, it costs money, and we have said that we are willing to pay. When it's said that we've almost run wild with this, remember that we're now increasing the structure in relation to the Government. Another thing that works is that even the middle parties now want to deviate from the principle of additional funding for foreign operations. It's a big and uncertain variable, which is contributing to creating uncertainty. If you had done what you agreed a couple of years ago, that's to keep this out, you wouldn't have put the defense in the bracket that this could be, because the business could increase. Then you lose your freedom of action at home. That's what we want to capture. We know that new material is becoming more expensive in the time to come. The Committee has also said that in the future it will look forward to the 20-year period. You admit it. We'll take the consequences. So you can do as the middle parties do: would be as much as possible, but pay as much as possible for it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e327	The case spokesperson and the chairperson of the Committee indicated that the outcome of the discussion was a bit strange. I have to agree with that. Not least, I thought that this'mill bag defense' that the representative Røsjorde is behind seems very strange. It seems to me that the committee's leader here is not willing to innovate that one has invested about. 4 billion kroner in the 1990s after pressure from, for example, The progress game and another one is worth 650 million. kr to hide the misinvestments that you have made. I'm going to have to get another comment. In addition, there is a question of one with the level that the Progress Party relies on, that one goes in too much of everything in defence equipment, does not risk getting back into a mill bag. Will it be that frigates and MTBs are at berth? Is that what's finally going to be the solution, so new bag project? I thought the Progress Party was very old-fashioned in relation to the Defence. Today, SV has a proposal that requires an additional person to strengthen his efforts in relation to, for example: hacking. We know that young people can go in and take over control, gain control of management systems that have a major impact on our defence capabilities. It should be a bet. Instead, the Progress Party is betting on frigates and tanks. Finally, it is clear that the Progress Party does not need any collection, as it has been mentioned, because here only one of the taxpayers spends their money – as the Progress Party uses in its own rhetoric – on everything that can crawl and go from defence projects. I must say that the policy of the Progress Party when it comes to Defence is very irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e338	On the contrary, I would argue that we are responsible. We're very responsible. So we're not, as the Secretary of Defense is supposed to say, sure that the sky is blue, even though it's pretty good outside the windows right now. We think it's better to be prepared and pay an insurance premium. The whole purpose of the defence is in many ways that it should not be used. Then it's successful. And that insurance premium we want to pay. We don't want to bring the Defense into a new April 9 situation. We just want to assure the Norwegian people that we're doing what we can. It costs money. Sitting with old technology doesn't help when the challenges are somewhere else. That, sir. Langeland pointed out the threat to the social structure is correct. That's a good part of what's already in the committee. Therefore, we are very disappointed that the long-term message was not linked to civil protection, where vulnerability analyses should have been based, that it did not come in parallel with this. It has a majority criticised the Government for it. So to this case of mill bags, you can flirt with a little bit of the term, but everyone knows what it's all about, and then I think it's okay. That means you take care of what you have, and you do it the cheapest way possible. It would be strange, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to do what the Government would do, to shut down one animal plant after another for a period where there is still unforeseeability and uncertainty. Why in the world would we do that? The costs of continuing — in a mill bag — nine coastal artillery forts and six underwater facilities are approximately. Twenty-five million. kr per. years. It's in the big context very small. If this is irresponsible, if this is old-fashioned and sidelined, then it is a very cheap insurance. I think so, sir. Langeland and SV were going to go inward. We take responsibility. We're trying to preserve the best of what exists and carry it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e347	First of all, perhaps the most important thing: the representative Røsjorde on behalf of the Progress Party, the Left and the other centre parties agree that we have to take seriously where we are. So to the debate on containment: it's not about collection, it's about being tough in conversion. In a society where we are tough on what we are going to deliver in healthcare and in school, we also need to be able to be tough on the management structures and logistics structures of Defence. That's where the funding gap between the centre and the Progress Party lies. We've been realistic enough, but we've been downplayed on some of our actions and adjusted the framework to NOK 29 billion. But what surprises me is that the Progress Party is not tough about taking the management structures that are there, where there has been almost a sport in Defense that one investigator until the next investigator comes, and there is no slimming at the top. But what we're agreed on is to produce protective agents, so here we get a test. If you're going to train people for Homeland Protection based on 3,000, they're going to have to run for 30 years, or if you're going to train – as the center wants – 4,200, the 20 years are on the reels when you expect realistic rates of non-response. So that's what makes the duty of protection credible -- it's plus that you have a duty-based setup in the Army. So there's a lot of similarity points, but the difference is the roughness of wanting to switch to the top. It's not enough just to ask them at the bottom to convert, it has to start at the top if the conversion is to be credible. It is the main message of the Centre and, to this extent, the challenge to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e358	Anyone who reads the setting will see that the intermediate parties have tried in many ways to contribute to a structure that is similar to that proposed by the Progress Party, but the ability and the willingness to pay is what we are discussing. In addition, the intermediate parties have contributed to a number of expensive solutions in district policy – I believe – device. What is important is, of course, savings, and it also contributes to the Advance Party. I initially said that. We need to get a better match between those who will lead, and those who will lead. And we're involved in hard cuts, but we don't want to shoot and push this further, because then it can all fall completely together. In the case of logistical organisations, Stortinget has just dealt with this, given a mission to the Ministry, and it will in turn make proposals on how the logistic organisation should look. It's a mission that's given, and we'll wait for this. Obviously, there's a significant savings potential here, but walking around and almost ironing out the individual, so we can't do that. We want to wait and see how the government is dealing with this in the future, and then there are opportunities for savings. What's dangerous is you put in a structure that you don't pay for. It's been the defence accident for a long time. The size has agreed on a structure, and so when the allocation has arrived annually, the money is gone. At least there, the Progress Party has stayed on the ground and paid for what it has cost, while other parties have not at all done so. They have escaped from the obligations, and then it goes beyond the Defence. Then it becomes unbalanced, both simple, double and triple imbalance, as it is right now. If you don't follow up now and pay for what you want, the defense is out in the same trailer in four years. Then it's not the defense that's to blame, then the blame lies here in the house, where a majority does not take in the responsibility of adopting a structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e372	Finally, we have come to deal with the matter that many in the Defence Department have looked forward to, either with horror or with joy. The same applies to many communities around the country. It's been a lot of commitment. Innumerable have been the letters, e-mails, statements, telephone calls, reading articles and signature lists we have received. I understand the commitment, and there's reason to appreciate it. The defense is important. So move on to the outcome of the discussion in the Defence Committee. The rapporteur has given a thorough examination. I will therefore concentrate on the Labour Party's policy. We are well pleased with the outcome of the discussion in the committee, although we also lose some things and we are deeply concerned about the economy in the majority proposal as a whole. One of the things we expect to lose in voting, I would like to comment, namely the integrated management of the defence. Norway is one of two NATO countries per year. the current date does not have integrated management, i.e. that the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Command of the Defence have merged. Turkey and Norway have both shared management. NATO, in contact with the new Member States and those applying for membership, has recommended integrated management. What is integrated management? IN NOW 2000:20 A new defence, written by the Defence Policy Committee, is said to be integrated management: ‘An integrated model involves the head of defence moving to the Ministry of Defence with his own staff and the closure of the Defence Command in its current form. The trade-military strategic part of the over-command is integrated into the department, while operational and strength-producing activities are moved to a national headquarters [[...]] In the context of international cooperation, today's model has led to some confusion about Norwegian military representatives claiming Norwegian military views or expressing themselves on behalf of the country. An integrated model will create greater clarity in such contexts. It will be easier to develop and implement a comprehensive national strategy in NATO and in other international organisations where Norway is represented both civilly and militarily. An integrated model will ensure that relevant professional-military elements follow the work until a decision is taken by the Minister of Defence or Government. The civil side will be better able to draw on professional military competence, and the military part will be able to benefit from civil competence and continuity. An integrated solution will increase the efficiency of the defence manager’s work within the department and strengthen management’s ability to give overall priority between the defence sectors.’;» Defence policy selection also believes that an integrated model can contribute to a higher rate of implementation of policy decisions. They go on to say, ‘An ongoing split solution may weaken the position of the Defence Manager. In future, if a national headquarters is established in Norway, the power line may go directly from the department to this headquarters, thus reducing the importance of the head of defence.’» I note that the other representatives of the Defence Committee have not listened to the Defence Policy Committee, as none of them support integrated solutions. They have not seen the context of the new organisation, as their party members of the Defence Policy Committee have done. An integrated model would have resulted in an even greater reduction in top management. That chance is now letting the majority go. So on to the debate on the location of the headquarters – Yåttå or Reitan. This is a matter where there has been a strong commitment, especially in Northern and Northern countries. I understand the commitment, but we believe that the division of labour proposed between Joint Operational Headquarters on Jåttå and what the Government has proposed for Landsdelskommando Nord – a progress such in Reitan – is sensible and good. LDKN will be given the task of national crisis management command for the northern regions, as they are so good at already. This means that they must have the capacity to keep track of the situation in the northern seas and in the associated airspace. The northern regions have a significant geographical extent. The well-known map of Norway's mainland with sea areas has been presented countless times during the work on this proposition. This area is also vital for Norway’s security and for current and future value creation. The unresolved issues of rights and the major environmental challenges require a special focus on the north, both civil and military crisis management. This is the background to the Government's proposal for a national crisis management command for the northern regions. As I said, you have good knowledge of Reitan, and these need to be maintained and developed further. Our goal is for Reitan to appear as a robust and effective command for the northern regions. It is also important in this context to note that the Government intends to propose Reitan/Bodø as a seat for a Centre for Preparedness, Rescue and Monitoring in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2000: 24 A vulnerable society. The government says that they want the Centre to be seen in the context of efforts to strengthen planning, development and coordination between Defence and civil services in terms of preparedness, rescue and surveillance in Norwegian areas. The proximity of the Rethane crisis management command will provide a basis for the development of a good professional environment, efficient resource use and synergies. We have chosen to place Joint Operational Headquarters on Yåttå because we believe that contact with NATO is important. The FOHK will exercise operational command over all assigned national forces, have overall territorial responsibility and is assumed to be provided full joint operational functionality in peacetime. One of the most important tasks of the FOHK will be to command operationally those parts of the Defence Forces that are deployed abroad. These will be part of a multinational force under operational control of a multinational headquarters when they are ready in the area of intervention. The tendency is that such operations are managed by NATO. Close contact with NATO's command structure simplifies this task. We have registered that there are shared opinions about the importance of using forces to maintain NATO Joint Headquarters in Norway. Many have opinions on this, but we believe that contributing to NATO's headquarters in Norway will help them to continue to focus on and have knowledge of this part of Europe. As many have recorded, the size group has changed on a part in relation to the proposition. Some changes are the result of the work of the Defence Committee fraction, others – and the major changes – are the result of the offers we have made in negotiations, which we hope would lead to a defence policy settlement in the United Kingdom. I believe that we in the Labour Party have gone a long way, that the Government, the leadership of the Group and the defence fraction have done what we have been able to do, and what we think is sound in relation to the economy, but I have to say that we have not succeeded. Nevertheless, we have chosen to comply with the offers we have made, and we are in agreement with the decisions this applies. For us, it's been important to stand by what we say. Our offer included the following main elements: 5 MTBs of the Skjold class phased in from 2003 Preserve 8 MTBs of the Hauk class until Skjold class takes over Extension of HV to 80,000 soldiers and HV districts as today For this, together with further cuts in the top management of the defense, as well as inevitable demands for minimum building standards, we got a supplement of a little over 600 million. kr. Later we have chosen to participate in some necessary extensions as a result of, among other things. The HV extension and other conditions. We continue with Heistandmoen and propose to add the recruiting school for Garden there, together with the HV training, which may not be available at Værnes. We also propose continuing command training for HV at Dombås, we are on the proposal to move the aviation school to Bardufoss and keep KNM Tyr. That's how far we've been able to go, and that's as far as we think it's right. If we go further, we get a supplement to the structure that we think creates large operating costs. Some comments on the extensions we have proposed: The biggest and most expensive change is the new MTB Shield. As Right-wing said in their comments, we went with them and suggested that if testing the front-line vessel was successful, series production would start immediately. MTB Skold is not a cheap ship, and everyone knows that there has been an in-depth discussion about the Maritime Defense needs MTB Shield, but we have therefore chosen to deploy these vessels as the first part of our negotiation offer, and we are pleased that we have been able to help find solutions to this matter that so many of us have been engaged for a long time. We couldn't leave the Right alone to build Shield. The solution of the centre was not good enough, and by 2005 Umoe Mandal would have had major problems. So to maintain the knowledge of the MTB weapon until we get Skjold, we proposed to keep some of the Hauk class. Next to the Heimeververtet and MTB Skjold, it is probably the individual locations that have given rise to the greatest debate, at least in the local press around the country. That's understandable. There are jobs involved, and it is a fact that several of our garrisons are the most important job in the municipality. This applies, inter alia, to: For the inhabitants of Hedmark, which have Haslemoen, and Evje, and Hornne, which have Evjemoen. Unfortunately, sometimes we have to make decisions that are not pleasant, but necessary. This is the case with our decision to go in to put down both of these garrisons. The defence must be slimned, rationalised and the operating costs must be reduced. Then the only option is to put down some garrisons and collect the operation in the smallest possible places. The choice is difficult, and we've visited all the garrisons and places that have been considered. None of us do this with a light heart, but if we don't make changes now, we have to do it later. Everyone in the defense has asked that we take the decisions now in ours. No one wants more postponements. Such closures will initially lead to investments in the garrisons that need to receive more, but that is, after all, all expenditure over a shorter period of time. The aim is to reduce operating costs in the future and to increase the funds available to invest in materially in distress. If the main steps are not taken now, in a few years we will be sitting with a number of people too much to pay for, a number of garrisons that we operate, and where major maintenance work and conversions have to be done, and we are really not getting used well enough. The result is a defense with many people, many mothers and without good material. Then we're really in crisis. In the case of future material investments, it is probably just to mention new fighter aircraft, new transport aircraft and MTBs of the Skjold class. That's not small money! That's not small money! The government offered a comprehensive reorganisation of the defense that would solve some of the problems I have mentioned and that would solve the double imbalance everyone has been so concerned about, and agreed that we need to get rid of. So what happened? Well, we're up in the same mess that we've been before. We've gone a long way to get a clarification that could create predictability for the Defense. It is clear from the statement that we have increased the limits from NOK 112 billion to NOK 114 billion, but the will was not present with the other parties. With regard to the Right Party and the Advance Party, they have always had more money to defend, and we were well aware that they could go a little higher, even though in the Labour Party we deeply disagree with some of the things they have prioritised. On the other hand, I do not understand the central party and the Christian People's Party. They have presented a scheme where they add up to an operation that is much higher than the Government's proposal. This was to be covered by cutting even more in senior management personnel, reducing some investments and selling some buildings. But this isn't going to work out, according to our calculations. I have no higher economic education, but even I have learned that one does not finance operations by selling properties and getting a one-off sum. The central parties are involved in all the additions, but have not received a majority for their proposals on reductions, because none of us have fully understood them. In order to get the predictability that we so sorely need, we have put forward a proposal today proposing that the framework for the defence plan be set at NOK 114 billion in the years 2002-2005. We hope to receive support, but I have also registered that there have been two other proposals. With this I address the minority proposals that the Workers' Party has promoted in the setting, and those that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e475	Grethe Fossli has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e480	The government, in its proposal, has taken on board today's normal defence frameworks, adding about DKK 1.4 billion a year to international operations, and then added this in its proposal for an annual framework of DKK 28 billion for the coming planning period. In other words, the government proposes that the proposed framework of DKK 28 billion should include international operations. In the committee setting, the Workers' Party has a special comment that seems vague and contradictory. First, the Workers' Party fraction assumes that the principle of additional funding is to be continued for international operations. Then they find that the Government for the period 2002-2005 includes expenditure on international operations within the framework, and then the Workers' Party concludes that: ‘if the costs of international operations during the conversion period significantly exceed the level of government and the Storting, then the appropriations must be increased thereafter’. Can the representative Fossli now clarify whether expenditure on international operations of DKK 1.4 billion per year is included in the Workers' Party's proposal for a planning framework of DKK 114 billion for the four-year period? And then a little more question, as it's natural to ask the Workers' Party also about the protection obligation, and whether the Workers' Party now departs from the general duty of protection when the termination of the protection obligation actually comes well below 50 p.m. Does the Workers' Party agree with the Government, which in its proposal says that the guardians will not have ‘any obligation to serve even if he is fit’?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e494	I have to go back a little bit in history. In the previous long-term announcement of the defence, presented by the Bondevik government, international forces and their financing were also mentioned. Int. S. No 245 for 1997-98, which is the setting of this long-term message, reads as follows: ‘The notification assumes that defence planning is directed towards a real zero growth in the first two years of the coming four-year period and by 0,5 pst. annual real growth over the last two years. The actual appropriations will be determined as part of the annual budgetary procedure, within an overall budgetary priority with different considerations to be taken into account. The notification states that additional expenditure on the use of military capabilities in international peace operations is financed in addition to, or as a further increase of, the defence budget.’;» Then I'll go to Innst. S. No 152 for 1999-2000 for St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 on participation in international forces, a communication also presented by the Bondevik government. The vote will take place at 6 p.m. «Inside. S. No 245 endorsed the principle of additional participation in international military operations outside the ordinary defence framework. [[1997-1998]] The reason why the Government recommended this principle is that these costs are difficult to predict, and therefore difficult to plan for. The principle implies that expenditure related to the maintenance of a structure for participation in international military operations is covered within the defence framework, while expenditure related to the specific preparation and operation of the specific operations is covered outside the framework.» Both of these papers were submitted by the government of Bondevik. The last quote was a quote from the staging message that was included in the setting, to which all parties joined unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e511	The starting point for the Defence Study and for the investigation has been that, instead of relying on what Norway needs for defence based on a security policy and strategic analysis, the defence he will prioritise within the framework he has been accustomed to has been willing to grant. In our opinion, the starting point has been wrong. We are in a situation where the Defence is in a serious imbalance, and there are two elements that have contributed to this imbalance. One is the degradation and lack of some organizational changes, but the other is that the majority of the Storing has never been willing to finance the structure they actually wanted. Therefore, today's situation is quite serious. Because the Stortinget has chosen to say that the starting point is not a budgetary framework, but what Norway needs for defence, the majority here today will adopt a structure that actually contains more than what the head of defence has said he will use — about. DKK 25 billion per year. years – and more than the government has provided. And then my question to the Workers' Party is: Will the Workers' Party base itself on what the majority actually decides today, and contribute to the fact that in the future we will not have a serious imbalance that makes our defence worse and worse for every year? When the majority believes that we need a larger war structure than the Workers' Party wants, will the Workers' Party realize that in the future they must also be involved in granting that structure? If not, we will be in a situation where the Workers' Party will contribute to eroding our entire defence capabilities in the years to come. It's the test of whether what Fossli said is right, namely that the defense is actually important also for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e520	That's right, as the representative Erna Solberg says, we've been in an imbalance. It is partly the fault of Storting, but it is also partly the fault of the defence. We're going to take on responsibility for that imbalance. At the same time, however, I do not want to take part in the criticism of the head of defence that some people have made, because the head of defence has done, is just to deal with what he has been used to from the Storting, namely, that we have, through the treatment of the long-term messages, been in favour of a defence that we have not later funded. How the Workers' Party will possibly follow up the decisions taken today, we will have to look at them in the context of the treatment, among other things. of the proposals put on the table today. But it is clear that a government has to deal with a majority in the Grand Duchy, and then we will have to get back to this in the budgetary proceedings next time. Our proposal dates from the 2002 financial year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e528	On the part of the government party, predictability, security and funding of defence have been a passing melody, and in the Progress Party we have said that it is good and good, but low-level stability is not very impressive, and it can be very dangerous in terms of defence. So in terms of predictability, the Workers' Party has now turned around in relation to the principle that the representative Fossli quite rightly addressed in his reply with the Christian People's Party. So there was an overall committee that went into supplementary funding at the time, precisely because it was unpredictable and uncertain. The individual parties have then in turn jumped away from that principle, and then international operations are introduced within the framework of an average of 1.4 billion kroner per. years. But if this were to become 1,8-2 billion kroner, would you be involved in supplementary financing? Is it a dramatic development? Here the Workers' Party has a responsibility and has thus lost credibility when you are not willing to enforce a principle more than a year at a time. Is the representative of Fossli able to ensure that this contributes to creating uncertainty? Or does she feel that there is security in that kind of budgeting? So the Workers' Party has said that planes are very important. Everyone recognizes it in many ways. However, in order to undertake this further, the longest working party is able to reach, to say that it is ‘prepared’ during the period. On the part of the Progress Party, and also on the right, we have said, 'We recognise this. We know that we have to pay for it, but if we take it within the framework, you kill everything else over time. That is why we want to finance the aircraft outside the framework. Then we can discuss the level of repurchase, because as many people have been involved, we have to have it in the balance sheet. Can the Workers' Party now give a clearer signal if they want to finance the aircraft outside the framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e537	When it comes to international forces and their financing, I think it's right what the government has done in the proposition, that is, to show how much our involvement in international forces is at the moment, and where you expect the thresholds to lie. But then we have also said – and I have already replied to that – that if the commitment were to increase, we would have to be involved in supplementary funding. In addition to that, we know that there is now a sample work in defence to reduce the cost of international forces, and I think that work is important. At the same time, I would like to stress that it must not compromise the security of the soldiers we send abroad. In the case of the planes, we have said in a note, as the representative Røsjorde correctly says, that we should decide during the period. We are not going to have new flights until 2012-2015 – there are many years left – and we have also said that we are going to assess how the funding is going to be done and whether it is going to be done within or outside the framework. We haven't yet decided what kind of aircraft we're going to have; it's a little dependent on the process further this year, and we're not ready to figure out how to finance it, until we know what kind of agreements we might get.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e544	I will also stick to economic issues, and first to what will be financed within and what may be financed outside the framework. I think the answer given to the representative, Stråtveit, was rather soaring, more a story description than an answer. There was something better now after the answer was given to Røss soil, but I still feel the need to follow this further up. It's the government of St. Prp. No 45 have proposed that all defence expenditure, including international operations, frigate expenditure, etc., be financed within one framework. Should I then perceive the representative Fossli's reply to Straw County so that the Workers' Party goes against the Government's proposal in St. pp. No 45, or do they support the Government? So the other questions about the economy. The comprehensive investigation of an alternative to the government's arrangement for our future defense by the parties in the centre has been sought harmless by known techniques of rule such as ridicule, etc. In this case one also tries to doubt our financial calculations. It is claimed that the structure of the centre shall be underfunded. I will reject that. Had our most important cut proposals within e.g. management structure, staff and support functions and proposals for a cheaper way to provide the strengths of international operations, have been adopted, could actually be financed within an annual framework of approximately DKK 28 billion. When our cuts are not adopted, we show responsibility and increase the annual framework accordingly, i.e. approximately NOK 1 billion. The Labour Party is today promoting proposals for a four-year planning framework of DKK 114 billion, which is DKK 2 billion less than the central parties propose. I would like to ask you, is it NOK 114 billion in the four-year period, or NOK 28.5 billion per year? years, what is needed to cover the structure currently actually adopted, or does it cover only the structure for which the Workers' Party itself has contributed to the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e555	Yes, again to international operations. The DKK 1.4 billion in the long-term proposition is within NOK 28 billion. But if there were to be extraordinary costs, we'd consider taking these outside the framework, which we've been on and said earlier through repeated settings. With regard to the belief in the Center Party's investigations into the economic situation, I honestly admit that we have had problems understanding part of the calculations. As an example, I would like to refer to the proposal from the Centre to keep the maritime helicopters on Bardufoss. I've been up there and seen, and I've understood the commitment that's at Bardufoss. But in his investigation, the center says that to keep the maritime helicopters at Bardufoss, an investment of 200 million is needed. kr. In connection with the figures we've got from the Department of Defense and the Defense, it's said that by keeping maritime helicopters at Bardufoss, an investment of 600 million is needed. kr. So since we don't know who figured out the numbers in the center parts, we have to deal with the defense and the numbers we get from the Defence Command, the Ministry of Defence and the sources we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e562	Let me start with economics. There will be several numbers here today for an increase of approx. 6.6 pst. by the defence budget. That means that this budget is the budget that gets the most growth in all areas. My question to the representative Fossli is then: is it so to understand that defence is the most important area? So does the Labour Party think that proposals related to growth in the area of children and young people are not natural, but that it should be the defence that gets the most money? Point two: I think it's positive that the Labour Party and a multiple go in to figure out a third category of protection obligations. It's been working for too long, so I'll give you the honor that a multiple, all except the Progress Party, will go in for. What I'm asking is whether it is not soon time to go in and look at the length of the duty. Yesterday, when we discussed the Mjøs selection, we discussed bringing down the educational course on the hooves. Why should one not now go in and look at the protection obligations in relation to the training course there, and will the Workers' Party support a proposal on this as submitted by SV today? Finally, this with headquarters. As I understand the representative Fossli, it is primarily NATO's needs and NATO's new concept that makes it natural to choose Yahtå. So it's not primarily the national needs for environmental and resource monitoring, but NATO's new concept and NATO's demands that make a choice Yahtå. I want to make a comment on that statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e573	No, it is not that the Workers' Party prioritises the defence over children and young people. The reason why we have received a long-term proposition this time and not a long-term announcement is that the government has wanted to take proper action to reduce future operating costs in the Defence. However, during the four-year period we are going into, 2002–2005, we need to make some investments with the future objective of reducing operating costs: fewer garrison, fewer people and the ability to drive a more effective defence for another sum. The four-year period into which we go, 2002–2005, will have large investments as proposed. But children and young people are also high in the Labour Party's policies. As far as the length of the duty of protection is concerned, we propose to reduce this for the Home Guard soldiers to four months. So the other parties want a longer duty of protection. Defence policy selection had a larger investigation into the length of the protection obligation. We were not prepared to propose this now, but it is clear that the most important thing about the duty of protection is for us that a soldier who has earned the duty of protection should be able to say to himself that now I have spent one year of my life on something reasonable, I have learned a lot, and I am a good soldier after I have finished serving the duty of protection. That's our main goal, and I think that in order to maintain the will to defend this country, those who serve the duty of protection must feel that they have done something sensible. So to NATO and Yahtå. Why we go in for headquarters on Jåttå, I have said a lot about my post, but I want to draw this out with the experience of a collaboration between NATO headquarters and the Norwegian headquarters on Jåttå. We had never, I think, been given the management of KFOR in Kosovo now without the experience that Skiaker had.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e585	I note that the representative Fossli, with his reply to Restad, failed to respond to the question of the Workers' Party's proposal for a planning framework of NOK 114 billion for four years – whether this covers the structure that the Workers' Party is now involved in adopting. I would ask the Labour Party to clarify this later in the debate. The position of the Defence Committee shows that the Government has suffered a severe defeat in respect of the Defence Conversion Plan. The government's proposal to rebuild the Home Security strength structure is in cash rejected. The mobilization force of the Home Guard shall remain at 83,000 men. And the government of Stoltenberg's proposal to remove the missile torpedo boats from the Naval Defense is also clearly rejected, so the number of ships in the Marine will be significantly higher than proposed. There is a clear notification of the Defence Committee with the present suspension sending to the Government. The proposal on the Defence Conversion Plan was far too poor. That's it in my view in several ways. Firstly, the proposed strength structure is too weak. Secondly, the general duty of protection is undermined by the fact that the percentage of first-time service provision falls well below half. Thirdly, the importance of presence in North Norway is too weak. Fourth, the government has not been able to incorporate the Vulnerability Committee's position into the proposition, so the clarification of several important questions has to be postponed. This has also provided the Committee with a poor basis for decision-making. Fifth, the proposition provides a poor basis for decision in terms of economic consequences. It lacks significant figures, e.g.: the extent to which today's mobilization force is in the various defence sectors. In fact, it was necessary to resort to the almanac from that kilogram. Ministry of Defence for 2001 to find such figures. In the same calendar we also find a number of organizational maps with command lines across the different departments of the Defence. It was also impossible to find out how many to provide full first-time service. Even when we from the center parts ask central questions a month and a half before the setting is released, for example. on the financial consequences, we are told that unfortunately the department is unable to give answers within the time it has to deal with the matter. This does not provide trust. Therefore, the central parties also launched a major investigation work to clarify what was actually in the Government's conversion plan. It did not even contain an organisational chart of the future Defence that the Government wanted. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left presented an overall alternative to the Defence Conversion Plan on 28 May. Gradually, we have had an impact on a number of our proposals: The Home Screen Saver has been reverted. The Home Guard will retain 83,000 soldiers. The reduction of the protection obligation is attenuated and an estimated 1 000 more HV soldiers will review the initial service annually. It's an improvement, but not good enough in our opinion. The proposed defence districts are wrecked. In the pact with the proposals of the Centre Parties, territorial responsibility is given to today's 18 HV districts. As we proposed, there will now be a majority to strengthen the Army with a mobilization brigade in Trondelag, Brigade 12. As we demanded, the missile torpedo boats are once again in place as structural elements of the Maritime Defense. We have had an impact on the construction of new MTBs of the Skjold class. The central parties wanted to strengthen the military presence in North Norway. This will take place through several of these actions, and through the implementation of the Centre's proposal to move the Air School to Bardufoss. Stationary and mining and torpedo facilities — in which billions of dollars have been invested over the past few years — are not being wrecked, but are being maintained in the mobilising status. It's also become a majority to move the Defence Pay Administration out of Oslo. These are just a few examples. The list could be extended. It is indisputable that the alternatives of the centre parties have had a significant impact and led to significant changes to the Defence Conversion Plan. And it was nice to read in the evening post yesterday the following statement by the defense chief Sigurd Frisvold: ‘At the same time, I believe that the direction of the defence we are now receiving is essentially the right one, based on today’s challenges and resources.’ Almost all the amendments that are now being adopted are in the same direction as the amendments tabled by the centre parties. But the conversion is too weak, and a lot remains before we get the best possible defense for the money. In particular, there is one main area where there is a conflict of principle, and where the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have joined forces on poor solutions. They combine to weaken the principle of a public defence based on a general duty of protection and will instead build more on the use of professional professional soldiers – standing forces. Throughout the post-war period, the Workers' Party has established a clear tradition in defence policy: the Norwegian defence should be a defence of the people, not a professional defence; we should build on the general duty of protection. The Labour Party has now chosen to join the Progress Party on a proposal that will lead to less than half of the vulnerable young people – yes, in fact only about 40 pst. - will complete the initial service. They actually recognize it open in the committee setting. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, write as follows: ‘The majority note that in the coming years this will result in a call-in percentage of about 50.’ What they don't write is that with normal failure of approx. 13 pst. after the event, it will mean that only about 40 pst. by the guarantors, they will complete the initial service. We heard that the representative Røsjorde, in his main post earlier today, stressed that the duty of protection is established, and one could then wonder how it should be defined hereafter in the terminology of the Progress Party and how it should be consistent with what is in the programme of the Progress Party. This undermining of the general protection obligation takes place through an alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and there is reason for calling out. In the agitation of the Labour Party's leading politicians, we still hear that a non-socialist government will mean dangerous influence for the Advance Party. At the same time, the Workers' Party, on a case-by-case basis, forms alliances with the Advance Party and implements poor solutions – against the votes of the Centre Parties. It is this Workers' Party-Party-Fremskrittspartijt-Alliansen who now trumps the fact that the protection obligation is to be implemented only by a minority and that at the same time there will be more professional professional military. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will emphasise that after all, we have achieved significant improvements. As a result of the increased strength structure, it becomes necessary to maintain activity at several bogs and layoffs that the Government would abolish. For the army and the Heistamoen, Haslemoen, Dombås and perhaps Kongswinger, as well as four additional HV district staffs around the country are involved. Within the Maritime Defense Department, we note that both Olavsvermn and Karljohansvermn continue, contrary to the Government's proposal. With regard to the financial framework of the defence, I have to say that no one accepts the government's 28 billion-dollar framework. The working party adds to well over half a billion a year. It hardly detects the extra investments and activities they have agreed to in the setting, but we may hear that later. And that's not enough to finance the structure that's now being adopted, but they're accepting more of the centre parties' savings measures. The Christian People's Party proposes that the annual defence framework should amount to approximately NOK 29 billion. This is what we're talking about in the center. In addition, we will achieve containment by proposing further slimming of strategic management and the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO. Furthermore, the Centre will have a cheaper form of organisation for the Army's efforts, with a smaller core standing forces and a much higher level of contractual protection. In addition, other localisation approaches also provide investment savings. Through a higher framework and a range of cost-reduction measures, the Centre will receive more than DKK 1 billion annually than the Workers' Party to finance the increased strength structure and to run more vulnerable through the initial service. The Right Party and the Advance Party also promise more money, but without demanding the same level of red tape as the Centre. I have noted with interest that the Progress Party is slimming down the top-heavy defence bureaucracy at least, and that of course grants the most. When the defence committee was in Moscow, we were reminded of some of the problems in the Russian defence, currently where 1.2 million officers, chiefs and generals are going to have their wages and their economic benefits, while it was difficult to recruit about. 60,000 soldiers serving in Chechnya. This is illustrative for the problems very many places. And with regard to this plan that President Putin got to cut down the 1.2 million by 300,000, he obviously didn't dare to cut through and implement this. But now we see the same refusal at the Progress Party and the Workers' Party – you cannot take the necessary cuts. In the eyes of my Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party, it would have been desirable to have a broad settlement that could also include this. The different views of the parties are now reflected in the various draft planning frameworks for the four-year period. The Centre Party's proposal of NOK 116 billion should be a starting point. If we had a deal, it would have provided the best framework for the demanding conversion process that the Defense is now going through. From the centre, we've shown a willingness to work for a settlement. We have had experiments with both the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, but they have not shown up. We have well understood that there has been little willingness to do this, especially at the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, despite the fact that in the proposition you write that you want a broad settlement. We must note that the greatest convergence of views in this matter has been between the centre parties and the right. I mentioned that the recruitment of the Home Guard might be improved by about 1000 per person. years in relation to the government’s record low proposals. Nevertheless, the capacity to train HV personnel in practice will be too low to allow the Defence to maintain over time a mobilization force in HV of 83 000 men with the educational garrisons that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will use for HV training, i.e. Guards and parts of Heistandmoen and Garrisonen in Porsanger. It is worth noting that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are unable to answer clearly how many new soldiers that need to be introduced annually into the reels of the Home Guard if the force over time is to be maintained at the present level, 83 000. It is all higher than the number of HV soldiers that the Alliance Workers' Party-Fremskrit party will run through the initial service. In short, their solution lacks internal coherence. In order to challenge the bulk of the population to take seriously the strength structure of Homeland Protection, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have therefore made the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide about 4,200 people with compulsory protection for the first time in the Home Office every year.’ The main question of location in the conversion plan is this: Where shall the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Agency be located? The centre parties and the Progress Party enter in order for it to be added to Retan at Bodø. Here we have a professionally well-founded proposal to add an important public enterprise to North Norway, where many of the main challenges for the country's defence have been and will remain in the future. The proposal has strong support within the Defence. We have seen several expert investigations that have concluded in the direction of Reitan. Many in Northern Norway will probably take note of the outcome to see if they will put a new cross on the long list of opportunities lost due to the Workers' Party and the Right Alliance in this case. My colleague, Anne Brit Stråtvej, will go into the Christian People's Party's views on the Maritime Defense, and she will also elaborate on why we believe that the Evjemo should exist, and why all of the defence music corps should be continued. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre are promoting together proposal No. 11 to maintain the Eujemo. In addition, the Christian People's Party, together with the Central Party, promotes 13 other proposals, the proposals No. 16-28. I take up all of these proposals. I just want to mention a few of those suggestions. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party will bring down the Women's Day in Alta. We are concerned that the recruitment of Finnmarkings for HVUB training will now be weakened, especially among the group. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party promote their own proposal that HVUB training be continued at Kvenvikmoen. That is proposal No. 28, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The Christian People's Party and the Centre also promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the issue of the location of the ARS in South Norway is further addressed. One representative of each of the three relevant locations of Kongsvinger, Mågerø and Gråkallen should participate in the investigation team.’;» This is proposal No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e700	Lars Rise has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e705	Let me first recommend that Lars Rise take a closer look at the setting, especially in relation to the Workers' Party's proposal regarding Karljohansvermner, because it is clear that he has not looked closely enough after. As far as Rise was concerned, the centre parties have developed their own alternative arrangement for the defense, and in a press release sent from the same batches they also claim that they have had full success in their alternative arrangement. This option involves more strengths, much higher educational activity, and that the defence must be operated at substantially more locations than proposed in St.prp. No 45. Gross cost estimates indicate an imbalance of at least DKK 1.5 billion each year over the next eight years. Compared to St. prp. No 45 increase the total expenditure not only for investments in materials but also on the operating side and for investments in property, construction and civil engineering, so that in the longer term the potential for further imbalances is significantly greater. And it's just this imbalance that has led the defense up in the situation they're in today. So my question to the representative Rise is as follows: are the central parties comfortable with this contribution to further strengthening the economic imbalance in the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e714	The central parties sent out a press release to stress that we have had an impact on the structure of the war, and we see that there has been a broad consensus on the proposals that we have promoted through the alternative investigation of the centre parties. It was absolutely necessary to make an alternative investigation, especially in terms of cost calculations, in order to find out how we could establish a structure and get more defence for the money – how we could strengthen the edge of the defence – because we saw that the proposition did not go far enough when it came to saving measures and the willingness to cut management structures, even though such measures had been announced in advance by the Government. As we went through the material, we saw that there was a basis for cutting significantly more than the government had provided. The problem was that the department was very little cooperative when it came to giving us the financial sizes that would provide the basis for such cuts and changes. It was alarming that we sent questions a month and a half before the release that the department replied that they were unable to answer. But two or three days before we were going to present our alternative, there were quite a number of answers to the things we had asked about. This gave opportunities to cut further compared to what the proposition had made. It also provided for a wide range of measures that we wanted and which were characterised by the Progress Party as... [[President clubs]] Now I was very obedient.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e726	It was a pity there, but I assume we have an opportunity to come back to the matter and get Mr. Rice finish a little bit closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e731	The President is pleased with military order.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e734	Yes, I'm not going to say anything. Sir. Rise has always said in his post: we've got a pass, we've got a pass, we've got a pass. Sometimes you can get through bad ice! It is very dangerous – especially if the water is deeper than a few meters. I just want to say to Mr. Rise: Once someone's come through, it could have been thought that this breakthrough in political terms had to do with actually agreeing. And then it's a majority that's done this. So it's not a solid creativity of the Christian People's Party, but it's just that others have had the same idea. Then it is simply a solidarity that leads to the conclusion of a majority. A certain humility in such a context would probably not have done anything. In a price-effective way, then, the middle parties have started a big one and I assume that a very expensive device is used to calculate – for years – how savings can be made. How to finance it, I don't intend to ask. It has been said that much of the savings will be made by operating cheaper, and that is well and good. But then you're going to sell a lot of properties. That's good, too. But the point is that real estate can only happen once. So what about the long-run operation? So you can't sell more than what the defense has, because then it's going to be tent life everywhere, and the tents are pretty much sold in advance. I understand you're going to sell Huseby. What about Garden's barracks? What is the relation to installations related to Huseby? And how many stones are to be sold at Akershus? Can the representative Rise tell me how this works in relation to obtaining operating resources over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e747	This gives me an opportunity to show you the alternatives of the center parties. I expect the representative Røsjorde has seen it. It says on the first page that this was presented on 28 May, and the other batches have made their alternatives visible first in the setting. It's very nice that you've thought of thoughts that are similar in most parts. But there's a difference between thinking and making them visible in a document. We think it has been positive that we have reached a broad consensus on a very large number of proposals, and I will of course give tribute to the representative Røsjorde for both thinking and expressing them, but there has been no document from the Progress Party, nor from the Right. So the other parties have made their positions visible in the setting. In the case of I, there are a number of points that were not included in the Government's proposal. There are 14 Hauk-class MTB mobilization brigades in Trøndelag, namely Skold-class MTBs, 9 coastal forts, 6 underwater forts, and 83 000 soldiers — to mention something. All of this contradicts what the Government proposed in the proposition. It is positive that the Workers' Party has gradually joined many of these proposals. However, there are very many proposals from the Labour Party which have not received a majority in the Committee. In terms of funding, we have our calculations based on the figures from the ministry. We got the numbers two to three days before this plan was presented. And to the extent that there are errors in this plan, those numbers have been propagated from the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e758	SV does not have the right to interfere in the internal debate in the Defence Committee, because we are not members there. But I would like to challenge the Christian People's Party on what one prioritizes in the Christian People's Party. In the rhetoric from Bondevik, Rise and others from the Christian People's Party, talk about a bet on children and young people, a bet on the environment – it's said. Last night, the Christian People's Party voted against an SV proposal to spend 10 billion dollars over a four-year period on the base school, the youth stage to renovate. The Christian People's Party, like SV, is aware that kids go home from school because they've hurt their heads and the paint falls off the walls, and that's what you should do. My starting point is then: now the center part proposes to grant 116 billion kroner during the planning period – a growth of 6.6 pst. Is it so to understand that the percentage increase will also come within the environment budget and school budget, or is it actually so that we see here what Christian People's Party priorities? Then SV has a proposal that deals with the settlement of the protection obligation. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is involved in resolving a third category of duty. But the question is service time – not just related to the Home Security, which the Labour Party replied to, but to the protection obligations within the different categories. Is it not true that the defence also enters and looks at the length of its protection obligations in the same way as one does in the education sector, where one tries to become more effective and tries to reduce the duration of education? Would the Christian People's Party support SV's proposals for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e769	The representative Langeland asked what are the Christian People's Party's main priorities, and it's precisely the people's defence and presence in the north. I think we actually share some positions with SV. As far as the environmental profile is concerned, we have reiterated our view of the Eastern Region and the futility of spending billions on the development of the field of fire, which we believe is unnecessary. And we have also highlighted this in the setting by asking for a full overview of the costs associated with the Eastern Region. When it comes to the question of our priorities for children and young people, the representative of Langeland has to say that we have a defence in this country also for children and young people. I've just been to Vietnam, and I've seen how a regime that might be closer to the social view that Langeland's representative stands for, treats its children and young people. It wasn't very pleasing. We don't want so much to change our society fundamentally, and we need a defense to protect the freedom of our children and young people. Then I would also say that we have gone in order that all costs should be within the framework, because we have taken a sharp distance from the view that the Progress Party and, in part, the Right has also stated that the Defence must be a peaceful area, so that a structure should be firm in any case. And here I can share Langeland's view that if you were to do the same for children and young people or for the health care system, it could be as affordable as doing it for the defense. We think it is wrong to protect the defence in relation to other sectors – so that's where we share vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e780	I have two local questions, but they are nevertheless a little bit of principleal. The first one concerns the Evjemo. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister's candidate of the Centre has been on torches with 1,500 people in the South and said that Evjemo must have military activity. The President of Parliament, Mr Enoksen, has also been there, giving a clear impression that the Eujemo will last. What could have saved the Evjemo was that this home security center, the so-called home security school centre, had been added to the Evjemo. That's exactly what the Evjemo is tailor-made for, for recruitment training and for HV's USK training. It was one of the alternatives that the Workers' Party government investigated in St.prp. No 45. Why didn't the Christian People's Party and Center go in so that this HV-school centre would be added to Evje, so that the Evjemo could have been saved? It's very surprising after the clear statements. The other thing is about Garden. The garden has to keep going, it's okay. But Garden wants continuous service, it's the only department in the Army that doesn't have a continuous service, and continuous service as a matter of principle makes sense. Leaving the Garden on the Eujemo, is a kind of active death aid, I'm afraid. I don't think that in the long term will give the Eujemo anything to keep the Garden. It's pretty short-sighted. That is why I ask the representative Rise from the Christian People's Party: why didn't you think constructively, and why didn't you stand by what you promised and the clear impression that is left that the centre should save the Eujemo?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e789	I think it was commendable to hear the representative Halvorsen's commitment to the Eujemo. If it had been a little bit more of the same commitment from the representative Halvorsen earlier, it's possible that we could have gotten something together. Now maybe it's a little late. I must respectfully say that it was the Workers' Party and the Government that proposed to shut down the European Union, so it's a little strange that the representative Halvorsen is now attacking the Centre, who has actually fought to preserve the Eujemo, and that we are now being held responsible for the closure of the Eujemo. In fact, the majority, consisting of the Progress Party and the Labour Party, are responsible for this. Attack is the best defense, and I understand the need that the representative Halvorsen has both to greet home and to point out that he has actually tried to preserve the Eujemo. We've seen this very little more. We have not seen a single proposal, and with regard to what the representative Halvorsen now says, that the HV school centre should have been on the Eujemo, I would like to ask: where is the proposal from the representative of Halvorsen? We haven't seen that. On the contrary, it's just a suggestion to shut down the Eujemo. We have proposals in today's attitude to preserve the Eujemo. The garden has been there for a long time and had a good time, and we have also opened up for other activities if there is no capacity available. What the Workers' Party has done is, of course, to run active death aid. They have now gone in to remove the land defence in South Africa, while we want to maintain activity and have fought for it, but have not been disbanded because of the representative Halvorsen and his party. So I have to say I'm wondering about this whole line. But at least I'd like to encourage you, sir. Halfway to vote for our proposal to preserve the Eujemo. That's the full reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e800	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e803	First a little line to the representative Rise about this to get through. When e.g. as regards the MTBs, the Right has been fully consistent in this matter since the first time was up in the Storting, while the other parties, including the Christian People's Party, have jumped off and on the go. The question is, they were in the beginning, they were in the landing, but where were they going? Last New Year's Eve, King Harald said, among others. the following about the conversion process in the Defence Agency: ‘It is my hope that the forthcoming changes will ensure that our country continues to have military defence to safeguard our national security, while at the same time providing our contribution to international peace and security.’ The turbulence expressed by the King here is representative of a flood of questions that we have received from the whole country after FS2000. Usually, such whistles use to go to a location. This time, there has been considerable progress due to the fear that the Norwegian defence would be too small and too weak. A quoted general Fleischer's famous question to General Ruge in the 1930s: ‘If the enemy attacks in several places, where will you put your little but good army?’ In order to keep focus on the substantial division of work on the proposal, the Committee worked on two steps: 1. assessment of the defence tasks and of what kind of defence Norway thus needs2. the localisation issue; I must say that I am pleased that the committee has been closed in implementing this, but it has been unusually labor-intensive, because the FS 2000 was, after all, a stabscule study and not an analysis of tasks and needs, and the proposition is also characterized by this. The fundamental security policy factor for Norway is our position in strategic geography. Historically, it has been of interest to combatants to be able to use bases on Norwegian soil in connection with the fight for the North Atlantic sea routes or to prevent the opponent from doing so. In the First World War, a strong Norwegian defense deterred anyone from getting along. In the second war there was a race to fill the void created by the Norwegian disarmament in the 1930s. This relationship is still up to date. In addition, after the Second World War, the Russian construction in Kola has led us to the only concentration of military force that can destroy large parts of the United States and Europe in a very short time just outside our living door in the north. After the resolution of the Soviet Union and the development of Russia's armed forces and because of the technological developments, the relative value of the North is increasing for Russia. A conflict, every single one in the world, that develops an east/west perspective, will immediately lead to an increase in tension and sensitivity in the north. This could happen very quickly. In addition, valuable oil and gas deposits have been discovered in recent years in the large seas for which we are responsible, as well as for the rich fish stocks. The unexplained border and responsibilities in these areas increase the risk of conflicts and crises, crises that it may be highly inconceivable for us to handle ourselves, with our own resources. The increasingly ongoing Russian-side hold in these areas, as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also refers to in clear terms, reinforces this problem. Since Norway joined the UN Treaty, we have been obliged to participate in international operations. When NATO went in to extend its exposure to this too, our responsibilities in this area increased accordingly. But there must never be any doubt that the primary task of defence is the defence of Norway. Our defence must be shaped with this in mind, and our contribution to international operations should consist primarily of elements where we are competent on the basis of the above priority. This requires, after the opinion of the Right, the following tasks for the Norwegian defence: by its strength in the alliance context to prevent military attacks against Norwegian territory if, however, attacks come, to defend the whole country together with our allies — in the first phase, and under minor attacks, we must be able to resist isolation; this is an institution for aiding more manageable crises in Norwegian seas with its own resources participating in international operations effectively intelligence aid civil society In close cooperation with the trade union community, the Right has come to the conclusion that the above tasks involve the following war structures: For the Army, at least four brigades. This is achieved by passing on today's Brig 12, which is located in Trøndelag, and by building the brigade in the Austland out to the full brigade. Brig 12 is currently relatively well equipped and had rehearsal practice as late as 1999. We believe that there is no need for any new equipment in the period up to 2005. We are pleased that there are several numbers for this, also for the purpose of pre-storage. For Maritime Defence: the very current oversight and crisis management tasks in our large seas include: an entirely different volume on our marine than what's in the proposition. Right, in addition to the proposition's proposals, will further the newly updated Hauk class MTBs and introduce eight of the Shield class. We are very pleased that there are now multiples to build in at least six shields. In this context, there is reason to recall the enormous values we have come across from the areas where these boats are supposed to be watchdogs for 30-40 years to come. The purchase of frigates and MTBs together costs only approx. two months' income from the base and the sea. For Air Force: it is very important to get started as soon as possible with the preparations for the absolutely necessary purchase of new fighter aircraft, to replace F-16 after 2012, and new transport aircraft. The funding here should correspond to that of the frigates: in whole or in part outside the budget. When it comes to Home Security, it turns out that the submitted reduction from 83 000 to 60000 is the result of a purely ‘think of a number’ operation. There is no need to assess tasks and needs. It's too bad. So we're going to hold the 83,000 today in Homeland. Any changes must result from a concrete assessment. This may be relevant in the context of the Vulnerability Selection management. I'm glad that today there's going to be multiples for most of the structure that Right goes into. This design of the war structure is otherwise a continuation and reinforcement of the suggestions in the Defence Policy Selection settings. It is also in line with the signals given by the Committee from NATO, where it was particularly pointed out that the Army was too small after being presented, and where it was also stressed that rich Norway, which would like to have help in all kinds of variants, prefabricates, exercises, etc., should provide more for its own defence. The measure used by NATO in defence operations is the percentage of gross domestic product. We may or may not, but we just have to know that it is. The minimum requirements for the search country is 2 pst. GDP. Norway is currently at 1.9 pst. It's unbearable. If we are to raise to 2 pst., the budget will have to be NOK 29.5 billion. It is the exact same sum that the Government has calculated the cost of the structure that is attached today. This should be good. For this reason, the Right has a proposal that the Stortning assumes a framework of DKK 118 billion over the coming four-year period, i.e. 29.5 x 4. The rationalization of the peacemaking process that it is put into the proposition has the full support of the Right, and we would like to see one go even harder to work where there is room for this. We are also pleased that one of the options is set to reduce the standard in the Defence Building. Here it also has to be possible to save money. During the 1990s, the Stortinget has adopted two long-term defence plans. The structure has been negotiated, but only the Right Party and the Progress Party have followed up in the annual budgets. This is a major cause of the imbalance and the problems that the defense is now struggling with. In every budget debate I have mentioned this. It is now indispensable to do something about it, otherwise the defense will soon be in the same ditch again – only at an even lower level. There is a special responsibility on the center parties to follow up the structure for which they are currently involved in creating multiples. What is now needed is a binding agreement between the parties to follow up the structure of the annual budgets for the next four years. The budget was adopted year after year and cannot be committed beyond that. Here's the lot that has to be on the track. There is now a historical responsibility on these to provide the defence with a stable and prudent financial framework. Today's decision should be a good starting point for such a long-term agreement. This is also the only way to avoid misinvestment. This should even be a matter of concern to our friends in the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, I will show you the option and take up the suggestions from the Right and the Right/Progress buttons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e882	Ingvald Godal has taken the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e888	For four years now, I've learned to know Ingvald Godal as an engaged, linguistically joyful and liberating man, to trust. For four years I have also heard from Godal and Right, from this pulpit and all other interlocutors, about the so-called double imbalance in the defence, and that it is primarily due to the majority of the population – and thus the Workers' Party and the Centre. The representative has also repeated this today. No money has been allocated to the structure that has been adopted, which has been the review tone. So then the representative Godal and those who have meant the same thing as him, have really got through, because the government is offering this case with an invitation to a settlement to get back predictability, over the four-year period, which the defense would be very happy to get. And we're not going to get it! I believe that a reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Right would give the best defense and the most realistic framework, and I think it is a pity that the Right now has taken more consideration, I think, to good gallups and to the forthcoming election, than to the predictability of the Defense. Does the representative Godal have any other explanation as to why the Right now does not see it as necessary as they have done to date, to secure the Defence Predictable Framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e902	We go in for a structure, which I did the right thing for instead, with MTBs, with a home protection at the level of the day, and with the fourth brigade inside. And we'll pay for that. If we were to compromise on a lower level than this, we would have to remove one of these elements, for example. The trouser brigade. We have been through a very thorough assessment and distribution of this together with, among other things. The general inspector of the Army, and the evidence shows that there is a break point at four brigades when it applies to the Army. If we go below it, we kind of figure it out. We don't want enough to stop the limited attack that we must be banned from coming in a short time. It won't be enough to recruit for international operations, and it'll be very difficult to sustain your skills. So we go for the four brigades, and so we go to finance them. I would like to compromise with the Labour Party – it would be very nice to have got all of them together – but they are too low. What they're defending is too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e909	The Christian People's Party and the Right stand together at many points in this setting. Together, we contribute to the adoption of a more solid defence than the Government proposed in the conversion plan. We are strengthening the duty of protection in relation to the proposals of the Labour Party Government, and we are strengthening the military presence in North Norway, because that is where the main defence challenges lie for the national defence. And they will do that in the foreseeable future. A natural consequence of this is that, in our opinion, the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Agency will also be added to Reitan at Bodø, which has all the prerequisites for serving as national headquarters. A strengthening of North Norway will naturally lead to a joint operating headquarters in Bodø. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Right now go in to add the Joint Operational Headquarters to Yåttå. The nomination of votes to individual representatives may be decisive in the voting. I'm asking the representative Godal to elaborate on his reasons for not adding this headquarters to Reitan, and Bodø. And so, in the right-hand reference to the duty of protection, it is assumed that the term of service should be used properly. The Centre Parties have proposed 100 effective days for first duty in the Home Office. Wouldn't this be a better solution for the Right than just keeping a six-month term? Then I also want Godal to establish that Right wants a participation of at least 50 pst. performed initial duty and that the Right will insist that the number of HV soldiers shall be 83 000. Then it's important to us that it's about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e922	When it comes to the issue of Retan versus Yåttå, that's a good argument for both solutions, and the plurality of the Right Group is that Yåttå is the best. When it comes to the First Step of the Home Guard, we go for six months, including six months. because the six-month service will qualify for participation in international operations. It doesn't do four months service. The intermediate part is based on a kind of intermediate version of 100 days, which I really don't understand where it comes from, but of course it's better than four months – that's probably about it. five months. So we'll see what the result is tonight. The best thing you would do if they went for six months, so that we get a fully-fledged first-time service that qualifies for participation in international operations. When it comes to protective duties, I don't think it's interesting whether it's 48, 50 or 52 pst. The important thing, in my view – and we have been on it in the right all over the 1990s, before, was also the majority of the population – that it should be equal to everyone. If one is qualified, one should be called in. If we go away from the principle of equality and place that obligation only on some – Knut is going out for 12 months, Ola is going to get out, and they're just as well equipped by nature – it's clear that it has to be compensated. And then we're soon in a situation where it has to be compensated in a fully-fledged way, with full pay – in practice, we're up in the same expenditure as a professional defense. So that's the similarity principle that's the jumping point here. We're on the principle of equality, and if there's persuasion, we're going to have one shorter in the reels, so we're going to have to use more. But if the excess is too large, we have to figure out alternative ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e933	I understand why the representative Godal turned away from the representative Stråtveit's announcement of the Right's reason for the election of Jåttå as headquarters. That there is a majority in the Right Group for Yåttå, there is no reason. So this was too simple. I will therefore pursue that question. The question of the location of the joint operating headquarters is covered with great interest, of course, because Norway, with its choice of headquarters, gives an important signal to the outside world. At the vote tonight, the Right will have the decision in hand. Right wants essentially the same war structure as the center. It's a pleasure. Right-wing also wants, as we do, a far greater military presence in the north than the government had promised. When the Progress Party is in favour of it, it will also be adopted in this way. It would then be quite natural for the Right, in the same way as the Centre and the Advance Party, to leave the Joint Operational Headquarters to Retan at Bodø. But for some mysterious reason, the Right will add the headquarters to Yåttå. Do not Right agree that the headquarters should be located as closely as possible to the potential area of operation? For Godal, there is no disagreement that it is precisely in the northern regions that we have the greatest risk of incidents, linked to unexplained borders with Russia in the grey zone, the Svalbard zone, fisheries, oil and gas resources, etc. What is the Right's reason for choosing Yåttå to headquarters?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e944	The founding of the plural in Right to go for Yåttå has to do with the proximity of the NATO headquarters, and the benefits that lie in it. That's what's done it has tipped in that direction of the plural. When it comes to Reitan, it is true, of course, that Restad says that the main tasks of the Norwegian Defence Force in a crisis situation will be in the north, and that it is important to have a headquarters where the north is in the vicinity of the environment and can handle this in the best possible way. So I'm happy, when the headquarters gets to Jåttå, that we've got the solution for Rietan that the government is going in for, and it's supporting us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e951	It's not easy to bring a line to the right. From the Right and the Advance Party, this has been more or less a couple race, where you've been tied all the way together. It has not been easy to wear off for someone, I have the impression – I don't know what that can get off. But in one area, it is obvious that the Right has now taken a new course and may have been led out in a trailer of other parties that stand a little further to the left. This is the so-called third category of service. Hopefully I don't remember wrong when I said that the Right was strongly opposed to the concept of civil protection in the same way that the Advance Party did. And both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been concerned that those who do the duty of protection should pay tribute to it, and we shall not punish anyone who has not done the service. The Right Party and the Advance Party agree on a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for the lifting of the status of defence officers, including: study credits, termination benefits and the tax exemption model are included as instruments.» In other words, a clear desire to reward, and reward properly, so that you get compensated for the year of service to society. But then the representative Godal has thrown himself into the so-called third category and will have investigated what came out of the Defence Policy Selection: a third category of protection. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is only about a kind of community service, and I would like to ask Mr. Godal: Does he think that in that case this would be a clear substitute for a duty of protection? And why in the whole world can't you clearly take the principleal positions right away, instead of letting yourself be involved in a paint stream that just ends up in the accident?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e967	When we go in to get this out, it's because we want to maintain a duty-based defense. The protection obligation has the advantage of getting one to the best of the youth, and one to keep a really strong bond between the Defense and the people. But the premise is, as I was in an answer to a previous line, that one can treat people with reasonable degrees of equality. In order to achieve this when the youth school becomes so much larger than the defence needs, even if a person has a trained reserve and a trainer for it, it may be an advantage if one can find other ways to use it, especially for what is safe to do. When we are going to deal with the Vulnerability Committee's setting to the cough, it may be useful to find tasks where it is natural to use them. This will have to do with the security of the country in a slightly extended sense. We haven't taken a stand on anything, but we want to figure it out, because I'm convinced that the line that the Labour Party and the Progress Party now stand for will necessarily lead us into a professional defense, which will be very small and very expensive, and we will lose all the advantages that we have with a protective defence. One has gone down to a professional defence in Europe, and it turns out that one gets relatively good recruitment to the officer's stand, but until the perpetrators get one – to quote one – largely those who fall out of the gangs in Marseille. This kind of development is not for us. We want to keep the best in Defense, so we want to figure this out in order to be able to keep to the equality principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e974	It is a joyous fact that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Right are united about a great deal, not least – as in the marked conclusion of the Gospel now had – to ensure a defence anchored in the people and not based on the Norwegian variant of the tricks in Marseilles. On the basis of this community, I would like to ask two clarifying questions to the representative of Godal. I will not take up the location of Reitan/Yåttå, but I assume that the representative Godal agrees with me that it would be very unfortunate if the Norwegian defense in the future would get a commander who does not know what it means to be in North Norway. So how will the representative Godal on behalf of the Right, given the Right's position, ensure that we get officers who have a different recruitment route than the Garden-Kosovo-Yahtå, so that also North Norway is included as a fixed component in the defence policy competence? That's the one. The second is: precisely with the position expressed by the representative Godal, I would like him to elaborate on the position that I perceive that the Right and the Center parties have in terms of the FIST-H intervention force, where we want to use several defence officers just so that we don't end up in the situation that we sneak into a professional defense. In conclusion, I would also like to make it clear that when you first have the view of the duty of protection expressed by the Right, you also have to deliver at the right time a strength to the Home Protection system, which means that we do not have a home protection of 83 000 men where you have to stand in the rollers for 30 years – in other words, someone who can stand there for 20 years has to produce normal rates of non-compliance. I take it for granted that the Right amongst others. based on the position of the Vulnerability Committee, which the sitting government has not included in the proposition, such a conclusion will be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e985	When it comes to making sure that the head of defense here in the country will be aware of the North in the future, make it easy by putting it up so that being a boss in the North, serving in the North, which is the most important area for us, is very competitive, so that it almost becomes unthinkable that one can become a boss without having done the proper service up there. In the case of the intervention force and the obligation to protect, the Progress Party and the Right went in conjunction with St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99, which we dealt with a year ago, for a more careful line than the plural, because we were afraid that the plurality, the Labour Party and the middle parties, would be a golokung who kicked too much of the other out. We've seen that keep going, so it's now about to be adjusted. We went in that time to enable us in the first place to meet the obligations we have towards NATO in connection with the IRF, etc., and then gradually expand our strength in accordance with the annual budgets, and in accordance with the economy and needs. Today, we are on the same page. We'll primarily meet our commitments to NATO, and then we'll participate in addition to it to the extent that we find that we can afford it. So to that with professionals, we have to have something professional, but we want to limit it to what is necessary for us to be able to meet NATO's requirements. When it comes to the length of time in the Home Screen, we don't say anything about it in the setting, and we're flexible there. But they must be quite young, so some and twenty years should be the normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e997	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1000	Today, the government is failing so much that, in a more normal situation, it should have assessed its position. This evening the Storting will adopt a war structure for the Defense that deviates greatly from the Government's arrangements. It is necessary to have an adequate and credible defence. The main changes consist of strengthening national defence by: The Home Protection Brigade shall continue to consist of the maintenance and territorial responsibility of 83,000 staff of all 18 HV districts. The maritime defence shall be strengthened by: The MTB weapon is continued as a structural element in the Maritime Defence, initially with 14 upgraded Hauk-class boats and then gradually replaced by six new Skjold-class three upgraded inland waterway vessels with one crew KNM ‘Tyr’ continues in the structure of nine coastal forts and six underwater facilities are retained in so-called mill bag, i.e. so that they can be put into service relatively quickly if necessary. The central parties have done a lot of work in the investigation and development of an alternative to the government's arrangement. Based on the security policy situation, we have proposed a new war structure, which is largely adopted tonight. We attach great importance to the fact that the defence must be based on a general duty of protection. Only in this way can the defence be enshrined in the people and the defence will be preserved. In addition, we want a far greater military presence in the northern regions than the government had promised. This has been the direction of the alternative arrangements for future defences by the centre parties. The proposition gives a good description of the security policy situation and the threat picture now — about ten years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war. The problem is that the government has not taken the consequences of its own analysis and assessment. A massive invasion from the east does not seem likely in the next few years. Nevertheless, it is too blue-eyed to believe that we can now rely on lasting “peace in our time”. Uncertainty about the development of Russia in the short term calls for a precautionary principle here too. The risk picture shows that, especially in the north, we can be exposed to episodes, particularly those related to the sea and coastal areas. There, Norway has disputed sea areas and open borders with Russia in the so-called grey zone. We can experience incidents in the protection zone around Svalbard, or related to fishing resources more generally. Our rich oil and gas deposits on the base can also give rise to conflicts. The northern regions are vulnerable to pollution, for example: from Russian rust caves that transport hazardous waste along our coast – just to mention some of the challenges we can face. Possible incidents in that area must be prepared for Norway to be able to deal with its own units — at least in the first instance. The challenge of crisis and crisis management poses fundamental problems. First of all, there is talk of the capacity for crisis resolution versus crisis management, which requires permanent presence in the potential national crisis area. Therefore, it is almost incomprehensible that the Government provided for such a significant reduction in maritime defence that our presence in the areas concerned would be reduced to an unwarranted minimum. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Naval Defense had about 90 vessels. Now we're down to approx. 50, and for the future, the government thought we should make it by 20 vessels. In addition, 15 remaining coastal forts were to be laid down. Fortunately, the majority of people have taken their responsibility and put the cabinet in place. We have provided a maritime defence with significantly greater capacity and with the possibility of sovereignty enhancement and continued visible presence in our marine areas. I will come back later in the post to the question of where the national headquarters should be located. As mentioned above, the centre lots will base their defence on a general protection obligation. We feel that we are now at a crucial crossroads: are we going to have a general protection obligation in Norway, or are we not going to have it? If, on this occasion, the principle of universal protection is not confirmed, but is included in the government's deliberations, the duty of protection and thus the defence of the people will soon be undermined. In that case, you want to move towards a professionalized defense. In my opinion, it will be a major loss for Norway and will quickly lead to a loss of defence and perseverance in the event of a war. In order to prevent this erosion of the protection clause, it is appropriate to set a lower limit on the proportion of the male annual coals required to carry out the initial service. The limit should, in our opinion, go at 50 pst. The arrangement of the government would result in this share being below 40 pst. – when the annual coals rise to their maximum by 2010. Today, the annual budgets of young men are close to 27 000. By 2010, the number will have increased by around 32 500. So 16,000 should do the first service. Since there is a significant decline in first-time employment, particularly at and immediately after indentation, about 19 000 should be called to service. To make room for so many recruits, there is a need for a few more camps than the government plans. In concrete terms, the bulk of the population will continue the Heistandmoen, Haslemoen, Dombås and probably Kongswinger of the many camps that the Government will lay down. In addition, in the arrangement of the centre parties, we need Evjemoen and Kvenvikmoen to accommodate the training of soldiers. I have registered via the media that we are in the center accused of conducting district policy when we retain more camps than the government is in favour of. I will reject that. Now it is right that good defence policy usually also has good district effects, but we have always had the defence and country interests as a guide in our work on the conversion issue. I've just explained why we need more camps than the government, namely, to produce more soldiers, especially for Homeland Protection. The Labour Party and the Advance Party do not want such a comprehensive duty of protection as we do in the centre. Nevertheless, a majority has been set up to ensure that about 1000 more young people than in the Government’s annual scheme are required to carry out their duty of protection. It's good, but not enough to maintain a strength of 83,000 men in the Home Guard if the crews are to stand in the rolls for 20 years, as our order requires. If you're going to be able to keep an HV of 83,000 people on the reels for 20 years, you're going to have to train about 4,200 HV soldiers every year. We have also proposed that the first-time HV staff should be on 100 operational days, which can be carried out on about five months. The defence is currently struggling with the so-called double imbalance – the imbalance between tasks and resources and the imbalance between investment and operations. This has occurred after many years of lack of operational power. The defence has lacked the ability or willingness to implement the Bill's decision on rationalisation and downsizing, and politicians have failed in their economic follow-up to their own ambitions for defence. The aim of the whole transition this time is to eliminate these imbalances, thereby bringing together the defence structure and economy. The aim is to reduce the annual operating costs by approximately DKK 2 billion, which can be released for necessary investments. The prescription is to reduce the number of jobs by about 5000, and to a greater extent concentrate similar establishments than hitherto. It may seem like a bitter medicine, but it is necessary if the patient is to recover. The greatest weakness in today's defence is the excessively oversized management structure, among other things. with a total of 1200 posts in the Defence Command. It is unheard of in view of the size of the defence to be managed. The government has obviously seen this problem and is in favour of a significant slimming of top management. Nevertheless – this is not enough. It has to be stronger if you are not going to get back into a similar situation in a few years' time. The centre lots will be removed approx. 600 posts more than what the Government proposes from the management structure, thereby saving large amounts that can be used for the Defense ‘pointed end’. As far as top management is concerned, the central parties will co-locate the Ministry of Defence and the future Defence Staff, which is also in favour of the Right and the Advance Party, and which will therefore be adopted. The Government proposed that the two units be fully integrated. We want the Chief of Defense to remain a visible leader of the Defence Military Organisation and believe that this can best be achieved through co-location, and not through full integration. I will then – as announced at the outset – come back to the question of the choice of site for the Joint Operational Headquarters, for which there has been a great deal of interest in the latter, among others. in the media. This is not so strange, as the location of the headquarters will give clear signals about Norway’s priorities. The central parties take full responsibility for Norway’s national and international responsibilities for the northern regions. We want to facilitate Norwegian sovereignty and the exercise of authority in our most vulnerable area. That's why we want a significantly greater military presence in the north than the government provided. This is also the result of Storting's treatment. I refer to my summary initially. This also makes it obvious to us that the headquarters must be added to Retan at Bodø. I will substantiate the choice of Retan as the site of the Joint Operational Headquarters as follows: The headquarters should be located in close geographical proximity to the most likely area of operation. Headquarters location highlights the ability, will and credibility to focus nationally on the north. Confident management of problems in the north is an important contribution to European security and stability and thus in the clear interest of NATO. The trust, open lines and good communication between the headquarters and NATO SACLANT and the North Command in Russia are maintained by adding the headquarters to Retan. At Reitan everything is at the ready for the co-location of the headquarters and the CAOC-3. Other elements can be found in the settings of the so-called Gade Selection, which investigated the command structure, including the headquarters location, in the autumn of 2000, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence. The selection concluded as known unanimously with Retan as the site of the Joint Operational Headquarters. Of course, I'm familiar with the Chief of Defense's view of this investigation. I have read his classified 12-page long letter of 9 January 2001 to the Ministry of Defence – I must say with great amazement, considering who is the sender and the recipient respectively. If the letter had not been except for publicity, I think it would have aroused great awareness if it became available and the content was widely known. The government therefore proposes Yåttå in Stavanger as a location for the headquarters – in line with the unmistakable wishes of the head of defence, among others. clearly indicated in the abovementioned letter. This is incredibly supported by the Right too. The right wants like us – and it will also be adopted – a significantly greater military presence in the north than the government provided. Then it is totally incomprehensible to me that the Right does not choose Retan, but Yåttå as headquarters. It bears witness to a total failure of logic. The Committee is in favour of the establishment of two sub-national commands – one in the north and one in the south. These will be added to Bodø and Trondheim respectively. The entire defence committee — that is, the Workers' Party's defence fraction — rejects the Government's proposal to establish eight defence districts. This implies that the Committee assumes that the 18 HV district managers become territorial managers in their respective districts. A majority of the Committee, including the central parties, is in favour of maintaining all three existing camps in the area which should constitute Østerdal garrison, namely Rena, Terningmoen and Haslemoen, in order to exploit the investments already made in the latter two camps and thereby reduce the need for large initial investments in Rena clay. In this context, the region of Eastern Europe, which has previously been adopted by the Stortinget against the votes of the central parties, is represented. We still believe that the decision should not have been taken, but does not take any new debate on it here and now. However, it should also be in the interests of the majority that the Stortinget should not be placed in a forced situation and thus have to make a mistake in the regional field. For the time being, noise concession is not granted for the region area. Much indicates that the noise zone is laid so that it can lead to a demand for redemption from hundreds of owners of dwellings and recreational homes in the area. In that case, this would result in considerable additional costs for the defence. The extension decision was based on a cost estimate of approx. NOK 1.2 billion, an amount that has already been adjusted. The final bill can be both double and in the worst case the triple. Therefore, before entering the soil, the noise concession should be granted, as well as new full cost estimates drawn up and submitted to the Stortinget. The centre batches have submitted a proposal to do so. I am asking the supporters of the region field, especially those who believe that a field of shooting and practice can also be bought too expensive, to assess and preferably vote for our proposal. The defense may need this money for more important purposes. While I'm in for money, I'll finally say a few words about the financial framework for the defense. The government has proposed a future annual framework of DKK 28 billion, all included, including international operations and frigate purchases. I am pleased that the Government operates with an overall framework for all defence activities and does not continue the current premise with a so-called ordinary defence framework, and that some expenditure – as a principle – is to be further financed. I refer to a comprehensive remark from the centre parties on this issue in the setting. The center option was held within a total framework of NOK 28 billion, as proposed by the Government. Now we see that our defence structure, and therefore expenditure side, is being adopted, while only a smaller part of our proposals for spending cuts are being adopted. We place the crucial emphasis on real convergence between adopted structure and annual defence appropriations. The central parties therefore assume that the future defence framework needs to be increased by DKK 1 billion, to around NOK 29 billion in 2001. We therefore propose that the planned framework for defence for the four-year period 2002-2005 be set at DKK 116 billion. Finally, in view of the experience gained from previous military conversion decisions, I would like to say the following: the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence must now give all their authority to implement the decisions taken by the Stortinget this evening, as punctually as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1135	The representative, Restad, said that the government here was in a great defeat. On the contrary, I have read, from neutral observers, that the government is getting through for up to 95 pst. of the proposals put forward here. I want to stay with the other 5 pst, for which we don't get an impact. One of the very surprising proposals that the Central Party and Gudmund Restad do not support is the merger of the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence to create a civil-military integrated defence department. This would give large powers to those departments that are out in the districts. I thought the Center Party was for district policy. It would eliminate unnecessary duplication and major resource use. I thought it was such things that Restad's representative stood for. That's why it's very surprising to me that the Center Party and Restad are not on that particular proposal. I would like to have a reason – and a good reason – that the Centre Party does not support such a proposal in terms of regional policy and resources. I see the arguments of the Right and the Advance Party. I see them, and I accept them, because they want a clear and clear head of defense. It's the most important thing for them, but there must be other things that matter in the big context when you can get all the other gains as well. We have said that the head of defence must still be clear and clear. Give me a good explanation for that, Restad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1144	You turn to the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1147	I have noticed that the Workers' Party, after the setting was given, has tried to sell the version that the Government gets a hit for 95 pst. of its proposals. Now the Halfway repeats it in the line. But if you want to make omelets, you have to break some eggs. When there is agreement to reduce the defence structure by 5000 posts – and there is a complete consensus – it would only be lacking if the Government did not make some of the proposals they have made in the bill. But it's also a fact, as I was at the beginning of my speech, that the Government is completely defeated in terms of the future war structure. I mentioned what's going on in the country defense. You're going to pass on the Trunder Brigade. Home security will remain at 83,000 and not 60,000, as the government provided. All HV districts shall be continued. In the Maritime Defense Department, a structure with the MTB weapon is being carried forward, for the time being with the 14 upgraded boats of the Hauk class, and then the assumed six new boats of the Skjold class are phased in. Three inland waterway vessels are continuing, contrary to the Government's arrangements, and the 15 coastal ports are not being closed down, as the Government provided. Is not this total defeat, I do not know what is going on before the Workers' Party can admit a defeat. So to the question of co-location versus integration of the Ministry of Defence and the current Supreme Command of the Defence Department, or the Defence Staff that it's going to be called later. Our reason, as Halvorsen called for – he wanted a good reason – is first and foremost that we want the head of defence not to become a gray bureaucrat, but a visible leader of the defence military organization in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1156	I agree with the representative, Mr Restad, that in not insignificant areas of this proposition, the Labour Party has suffered defeat. It's a pleasure that we can be together about a lot. Nevertheless, with reference to the painful experience we have in the last ten years, and with the failure of the Central Party to follow up with money what they promise with words, I would like to have a justification for how the former Minister of Finance explains the deficit of at least half a billion dollars that the Ministry of Defence has calculated in relation to the structure that is adopted. If I understood Dørum just before today, he will cover this up with what he calls greater rigour towards the management functions of the Defense. There is a lot to be said about the need for management in the large conversion process Defence is now in progress. We can take another debate on that, but I thought it was relatively common practice here in the house that we in the Stortinget relate to the numbers that come from the department, and no more or less imaginative calculations. I would like to ask the representative Restad – in his capacity as former Minister of Finance – whether he feels comfortable with that way of thinking, or whether he has another explanation for the undercover of half a billion dollars from the Ministry of Defence. So another question about the power collection of Østerdal garrison. The whole base of that collection of armies in South Norway to Hedmark is the region field, which the Center Party has worked against by all means, and which they continue to work against with some imaginative operations. I think we need to be clear where the representative, Restad, wants us to train the soldiers, which we are reaching correctly and so much localise to Østerdal garrison.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1165	Gudmund Restad is well-responsive, not as a former Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1168	I agree that here I am in my capacity as a staging representative. But it is clear that something was learned as a finance minister, and I have used it in the investigation of the costs of the alternative that the centre parties have developed and presented, and which is largely actually adopted today, at least in terms of structure and therefore the cost side. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get a majority for our significant cut proposals, among others. further cuts in the management structure. That's why we've also taken the consequences. We are responsible and increase the framework with which we originally operated, NOK 28 billion, by DKK 1 billion, to NOK 29 billion each year, or to what is in the proposal, which is distributed in the hall, NOK 116 billion in the four-year period 2002-2005. So the representative herenæs claims that this represents a deficit of half a billion dollars. I haven't heard that anywhere, except as rumors here in the hall. I assume that when the Workers' Party today promotes a proposal that is actually half a billion per year below what the Centre spends on, that is 2 billion kroner in the four-year period, it is after a careful calculation and assessment in the Ministry of Defence of what they think is the cost of the structure adopted today. I hope that the Workers' Party is not so irresponsible that they have filed an invasion just for what they themselves have been involved in, because here it's on the very thing that's being adopted. That is what will be financed in the next four years, not what the Labour Party was involved in. So the question about the region field. I don't know if I can reach it – but a few words: we did when the matter was up in Stortinget, said what we think about the region field, the problems you have there, and the alternatives that exist. There are alternatives in Sweden, for which an agreement could be reached, and alternatives are available not least in the north, which are currently used and which will be fully usable for the future. But my main point is that now you don't have to go into the trap that you think this is going to cost 1.2 billion kroner, as it was supposed when the regional field was adopted. I think I can make a bet with anyone that at least it's going to be twice, and maybe worse than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1179	If Restad thought he had little time to talk about Østerdal garrison and Regionfelt Eastland, he'd have to spend some time answering to me, because I've been meaning to ask for exactly the same thing. What's obviously taking up a lot of things is how the Center Party is going to solve the problem of moving people – first they're going to center them on Østerdal garrison, and then they're obviously going to move them to North Norway to practice. It sounds completely irresponsible. Another thing: the centre party wants to maintain several camps, they say, or garrisons, they want to maintain many more ships, and they want to maintain many more quickly. This was Restad a little worried about when it was about the media, because he thought they were accused of pursuing clean district policies, and could it be anything but pure district policies? In view of the fact that there are also proposals to reduce defence by several thousand men, how has he intended to man these vessels and these forts, which he will not lay down? Likewise: how did he intend to finance the operation of these things over time, without adding more money into the structure? One thing in the end: Restad is very concerned about economics – we all know that. In the case of Air Force stations Gråkalden, Mågerø and Kongsvinger, there has been a heated debate about it. The most expensive option is the Greyer. The centre party would like to maintain the cry-call, despite the fact that the head of defense in FS 2000 says he's going to put down the cry-call, because it's too expensive, probably. The top management of the Air Force would like to keep Mågerø. How, then, can he defend the preservation of the gray-bell before Mågerø, when, after all, that is the most expensive option?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1188	The replica covered so many themes that I doubt whether I can get through everything and give real answers in two minutes, so I get to start with what I feel is the most important thing. Width claims that the center parties will maintain much more camps. We want to maintain two who are not also members of the Progress Party, namely Evjemoen and Kvenvikmoen. We need them, not for district purposes, but because we need a larger production, among other things. in Homeland. We are unable to educate what we have provided for Home Protection, if we cannot use the two camps, when now the majority would seize part of the Heistandmo for the garden education, which we had foreseen would continue to take place on Evje. So Width says we'll maintain much more quickly. No, here we have the exact same setup as the Progress Party. We're going to maintain 15 fast, and we're going in for both the Advance Party, the Right Party, and we're going in for it. The working party goes in to bring down all of these assets. So here Width hasn't been present in the committee enough, or not read the setting well enough. So it's true that in our original arrangement we went into order that a submarine of the Kobben class should still be in operation, but we have it during the process of decay, because we have found that there are other needs that are more urgent than preserving this one submarine of the Kobben class, since six other submarines are continuing. So that's the question of the grey-collar, the mulberry and the king-wing. I'm aware that calculations -- I've seen a lot of strange calculations -- show that the grayhead is going to be more expensive than Mågerø, but I've also seen calculations that show the opposite. I have for my part, and the center has for its part, wanted to put the most emphasis on the professional, what to do at these stations, and we have realized that Magerö will get a majority if there is a vote over it now. That is why, in order to clarify what is most expensive, what is cheapest, and what is most appropriate defence policy, we have said that this should be further investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1202	First, a comment to the effect that Restad actually referred to a classified letter that he had read, which was supposed to be an argument in relation to something. It's a little silly that we haven't read it and found out what it's supposed to be, so I have to ask that it's said something more, and that one doesn't just refer to it. The resort must also say what he refers to, without going beyond the gradient that he keeps going. So Restad said that the Labour Party had among other things. lost when it came to the 15 coastal forts that they have suffered defeat at it. Who is it that actually lies defeat there – the mill bag defense that one goes into that case, and where one is going to keep up a Magino line in Norway, coastal forts and other fast, which I see not to be used for anything with the first? That's the old Invasion Defense Restad here is in here, and that's one good thing. Maybe it's to cover up that one actually invested billions in the 1990s just in those forts, making mistakes. Flag Commander Finseth says that in ten years this will cost Norwegian society 650 million. kr. And if he's busy housekeeping with the Defense's money, he should definitely put these forts down. So briefly about this with the UN mandate. SV has a proposal today that is clear that each international operation in which Norway participates should have a clear UN mandate. In relation to the EU, NATO and these things, is the Central Party also as clear as SV when it comes to the mandate of an operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1211	First to the letter. I've been used to handling classified information through a long life in the police and never licked a single word. I didn't do that today either, but I just made it clear that I have seen the letter in question, which is graduated, but with the lowest grade, ‘limited’. But it can't be made public, because it's not public. That's why Langeland and others couldn't see that letter, which is what we in the Defence Committee have done. So it was this thing with the forts, and that it's a defeat for the Workers' Party. I believe it is a defeat when the Workers' Party does not want to maintain these 15 forts, which it does not cost more than 25 million. kr of the year to maintain. It's a cheap insurance premium. I agree with Langeland that there is no immediate danger of an invasion, but one must not be so blue-eyed as to believe that it is permanent ‘peace in our time’. There may be things happening again. There's instability in Russia, so you can never say. And if an aggressor were to think of going into the country from the sea side, one would have to take into account that there are, in fact, a few people here who have to be forced, or perhaps not going ashore, because the forts are too dangerous and it may cost too much to get past. So this number, 650 million. kr in ten years, is a completely unknown number for me. So finally this with the UN mandate that Langeland asked about. SV's configuration is entirely in line with what the Central Party has recently adopted in its batch program.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1220	I just want to follow this up a little bit with the merger of the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence, which I got an explanation for, namely that we should have a clear head of defense. It was the main argument, and thus threw Restad's district policy, rationalization and efficiency on the boat. However, when the representative, Mr Restad, wants a clear head of defence, he must also listen to this head of defence. And then I get to my next question, which concerns Reitan/Yahtå. The head of defence has made a clear and clear recommendation as to what the head of defence will do. And I assume that Restad places the decisive emphasis on it, as he wants such an independent, clear and clear head of defense. I would like to ask another question to the representative of Restad. We were together with the Brussels Defence Committee to get an overview and perhaps views and impressions of what NATO thought about this with a common operational headquarters. I guess the answer was that we didn't get any answer, because they wouldn't go into it, it was a national case that we decided on an independent basis. But what impression did it leave of the visit to Restad's representative? At least I got a clear and clear impression that Yåttå would be the best – that's what I got from it between the lines – and I must therefore ask: What was the impression that the representative got Restad? And again, will he focus on what the head of defense says, when he's so concerned that the head of defense is going to be independent?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1227	«If I am hammered or hammered, equally so, there will be jams.» The central parties are accused of merely pursuing district policy in this matter of conversions in the Defence, but now the Halvorsen is working to accuse us of having thrown the district policy on the boat when we do not want to integrate the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Command. We haven't taken any territorial considerations at all here either, as we haven't done on the other questions we've been facing in this round. Our reason is that we want the head of defense to be a visible person. We believe that it can best be achieved by co-location and not by integration, as I said in my post. But this is a vision that applies no matter what the head of defense you have at any time. This is not a time-limited position. This will apply either to the Defence Manager's name is Frisvold or to something else in the future. It's a matter of principle. So Halvorsen says that the head of defense has proposed Yåttå as the headquarters location. Yes, I am fully aware of that, but I went through this thoroughly in my post. There's a lot of people who have completely different visions, so there's a lot of good vision here. We've based our own view on where it's natural to put headquarters when we know what challenges we're facing, and when we know where the defense should have been mostly located, namely in North Norway. It would be completely unreasonable, unnatural and illogical if we were to add the defense in the north and the management in the south, to exaggerate. Then shows the Halfway to our trip to Brussels and the conversation with NATO people there. What's the impression that I'm left with? Yes, the Norwegians we talked to there, I got the impression that I would try to influence us in the direction of Yåttå, I will admit that. But it's true, as Halvorsen also showed, that NATO really can't afford to give on this issue. I refer to the fact that in most other European countries it is common for the national headquarters and the NATO headquarters to be separate. So you've found benefits of that, and so do we here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1236	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1239	I take up SV's suggestions, so I don't forget. So a comment to Restad and this secret letter. Of course, for us who are used to having secret services on our necks, it's important. When it's used in an argument for Retan, as I understand it, and one uses this officially, it's going to be weird for SV. The defense is now again a budget winner for the next four years. The defence budget will be at least NOK 29 billion every year. It has a growth of 6.5 pst. No other budget will be able to achieve such growth. Some should have had it – the environmental budget, for example. That budget is $2.30 billion, which is 10 pst. by the defence budget. SV believes that the defence budget should be between 23 and 25 billion dollars a year. It's more than enough, not least when we look around and try to find the real enemies that make all the game, except SV, think it's absolutely necessary to spend the most money on Defense. Today's debate shows everyone who can see what is prioritised by this Stortinget. SV will give priority to the future, we will give priority to children and young people and the environment. We could, for example, bought a portable PC for all the kids in the base only for the multi-currency money today spent on MTBs. Yes, think of the will to prioritize the school would have been as great as it is to prioritize the defense! Then kids who would otherwise have to go home with evil in their heads because of poor ventilation, get organized in it, and kids who would have to pay sky-high possessions to get on the clay ball, would have dropped it, otherwise one would have also had to brush up the schools that look like they were supposed to puddle up 50 years ago. The reason why the other parties do not give priority to this is of course that they give priority to the defence. They give priority to investment in Defence. They don't give priority to children and young people and the environment first, as SV does. Yeah, so last night, all the party, except SV, voted against our proposal to grant $10 billion over a four-year period to bet on the youth ball. Then the plural shows its true face. SV does not want to follow up on NATO's new concept, the world political concept. We do not want Norwegian forces to be used around the world to defend their interests. The turn of Norway's defences that is being passed on today, SV will strongly warn against. SV has therefore put forward a proposal that confirms and, as Restad now said, the Centre Party agrees, that the UN is the World Society’s organisation – not NATO, or the EU with its military ambitions for that cause. SV thus foresees that the Central Party and other party who believe that international law comes first, that the UN comes first, and that it should be such a mandate before Norway can participate in military operations, supports SV's proposal to do so. SV does not want to strengthen NATO's position in Norway. So we don't want to fix the new NATO concept. This is something of the background for us not to build up any more NATO activity on Jåttå near my hometown. This is, as Godal also confirms in his article, the main reason for, among other things. Right goes in to add the headquarters to Yåttå – to make sure that NATO gets what it wants. It is more consistent with the SV's policy to place this on Retan. It is in line with its defence policy priorities of environmental and resource protection, our priority of coastguard and coastal surveillance and its presence in central Norway. A comprehensive SV will therefore be used for Retan. In SV, there is no need for those who come from different parts of the country to be allowed to vote as they want to to stay in touch with the local voters. That's what SV thinks is a little bit of a principle. So to the music. Today, in the early days, some trombone players appear in a hurry, as the case-speaker was also involved, who do, as it appears, that there may be multiple numbers so that we can maintain the Corps in Halden and Kristiansand and keep the seven corps. It's positive if that happens. SV choose to vote in favour of the Centre Party's proposal to maintain the important cultural institutions as this is. It's also important for the Defense's legitimacy that one actually drives things other than bullets and gunpowder, that one actually shows that one also drives culture in the Defense, on which these corps are an example. The scandal in relation to the region of Eastern Europe is rolling on, and now the noise problem is coming too far. That a plurality has adopted this hundred year's greatest natural intervention should not lead to one not using the senses, nor to Right and Down. In fact, today's use of money shows that costs and large bills are not the biggest problem, but it must be possible to wait for the works on issues relating to noise concessions to be resolved. SV supports its proposal to this effect. The protection obligation now appears to be hollowed out, and it will not be included in SV. SV is very pleased that a multiple will perform a third category of protection obligations. It may help to strengthen protective obligations. In that context, I refer to an SV proposal for a new military/civil design to tackle environmental pollution as a third category. SV does not believe it is possible to avoid a new assessment of the length of the protection obligation. The elimination of the reduction of the length of the protection obligation also corresponds to the thought that is well-known in the context of the higher challenge. Here you are working on getting more out of education in a short time. Then it's amazing that we shouldn't do the same thing before the defense. We have to be able to assume that it is possible to spend less time on the challenge also by guardians. SV is not known in the Defence Committee - some would claim it is a minus. That's enough. But after reading this setting with 33 Romantic proposals and 36 minority proposals, in addition to the fact that today a lot of proposals have emerged from people sitting in the committee, and with so much uncertainty in relation to what we're doing here and now and with so little agreement in my opinion, I would say that there is someone here who hasn't done his job, and I think that a group committee has to take responsibility for that. It was said that a desire for a national settlement in defence policy. The national agreement consists of 60 to 70 different proposals at often important points. There is not much comparison. There is reason to point to something that I have been in the past. One still thinks of traditional in defence policy. When we know that one can sit home in the stova and run with hacking and sabotaging communication and management systems that have a lot to say about our defence capabilities, it is unthinkable that on the last day of the exam, the defense committee is mostly thinking about bombs and tanks and on expensive and low-future investments. I therefore hope to support SV’s proposal to promote measures to further limit dataasabotage. The members of the Defence Committee must have a different view of character systems and assessment methods at school. But there is reason to believe that the most powerful character-scale followers in the committee would rather not be evaluated by school characters today. There's reason to believe that character would be discouraging.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1276	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1281	I think it's really impressive that the anti-NATO party SV now would like to spend 23-25 billion kroner on NATO defence in Norway. I would like to remind you that in 1982 the total amount of defence appropriations was approximately ECU 20 million. DKr 16 billion. I would like the representative Langeland, in accordance with the SV's programme, to explain that they want to use approx. 10 billion more. Now, the representative of Langeland did not say a word about strength structure and how to distribute these 25 billion into different departments of defence. He just mentioned coastal surveillance, coastguard, and that you want the headquarters of Retan and presence in Middle Norway. But I could imagine a more detailed explanation of how SV will use these 25 billion, why SV believes it is important to have such a comprehensive defense, and who SV looks like the most likely enemy. I would also like to mention that the representative from SV spent quite a lot of time talking about music orps. However, I note that there is no proposal for Norway to withdraw from NATO, and I would like to ask the representative of Langeland to explain why this is not proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1290	No, I didn't mean to tell you that we were going out of NATO for full music, because I didn't see that as necessary either. But SV takes up suggestions about NATO’s release when appropriate. There have been 80 different proposals in the past because the Defence Committee is unable to coordinate and reach a national compromise, and then, as we are not in the Committee, we should try to limit ourselves when it comes to making proposals. But that proposal will show up, because it is again recently agreed at SV's national meeting, and that is a very important and correct position, you ask me. Then the representative asks Rise about the enemy image. That's exactly what I tried to find out in my post, that SV is trying to grab hold of the real enemy images. We're trying to catch up with the fact that there are environmental disasters ahead. There have been some environmental accidents along the Norwegian coast that could have been avoided if one had had an operational and proper radar surveillance. We understand that we are in fact responsible for Europe's largest food resources in relation to the sea, and we must then monitor them. And we are gripping the fact that we have supplies of oil and gas to the EU that would create major problems if the EU did not get them. So here we have our argument for what kind of defense Norway needs. What bothers me is that the center party is not able to do such obvious things, but starts with a mill bag proposal, where a so-called maintenance of installations that we never need, which at the same time will increase the costs of the defense. I can only say that for the centre party and the Christian People's Party, the defence is more important than any other thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1299	I would like to admit that the discussion around the location of Retan or Jåttå has been difficult. I would like – and this is not often – to be allowed to thank the representative Langeland. He made me considerably more confident that Yåttå is the right position, as he justified his resistance to the fact that it would give too close connection to NATO. I hope the middle parties remember that. Otherwise, I'd like to say that when some of us talk about a national settlement about the defense that is obviously much closer to what the mathematical number of proposals would suggest, most of us add to it that it doesn't include the Socialist Left Party. At all, it is rather sad to experience how it is possible in a defence debate to pretend that there is a contradiction between Norway's national defence and our defence in NATO. But I know that SV has had a negative view of it as long as the party has passed, and then it's a little strange that they don't find themselves wanting to promote in clear text proposals that we should resign from NATO in this debate as well. In former defence committees – Langeland is not a member of it now – SV has had representatives who have been very clear on that point of view. So the representative of Langeland, in relation to keeping some mill bags, says that there is coastal fort that we never need. I take note that the representative Langeland has never heard of Oscarsborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1309	Yes, now I see that the representative Hernæs was so naked with his line that he left. But let me say that, of course, SV has heard about April 9th and Oscarsborg and things like that. But April 9th never comes back – there won't be a war like that back in Norway. After all, there must be a cross of thought if there's anyone who thinks that if Norway had been equipped for the teeth, one would be ready to stop Wehrmacht. It's simply naive to believe something like that. One could have tried to stop them a little – that's quite correct. There's herehere back in the hall. So to this with NATO. The SV national meeting agreed with a large majority that Norway should leave NATO and that it is working for SV. But then it's not necessary to demonstrate it at every frequency. I must honestly admit that. But let me say strongly and clearly: Norway should and shall report out of NATO if SV gets its will. So to this with locating and retan. Now I already know that when it comes to locating and Gardermoen and stuff like that, Hernæs has clean roller blades. He's never driven anything in the direction of his interests, as far as I know – but we don't know it's true, what I said now. The point is that if a grasp of the defence concept SV mein is correct, then there is no doubt about where the headquarters should be. There must be more in the middle of Norway than in the south, in Stavanger. And when you're against NATO, it's clear that one doesn't want to be in and build a NATO headquarters in Stavanger to work on NATO's premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1318	The representative, Mr Langeland, presented the Committee with characters. My experience as a sensor is that the sensor should be objective and relate to the syllabus. I expect that very few of us in this room would get a stand-up with Langeland as a sensor. So much about it. In Mr. The Langeland version of the run-up to April 9th in these hard days and our chances of beating back has been made – let's say – remarkable. I believe that there is a need for studies for Mr. Langeland. There's plenty of literature. I'm not going to discuss the ability to learn – I think it’s there – the will is more in doubt about me. To the SV priorities: it is right that Mr. Langeland and his party have still pushed money into the defense, but unusually rarely do they promote suggestions on structure. Actually, it hasn't happened since, sir. Eagle sharks did those kinds of exercises. It must mean that the Eagle-Høi model is fixed – the backpack is more worn, the ammunition rusted and the weapons then. Whenever the world will, sir. Langeland and SV submit a proposal for a structure? I understand this is difficult, but when will they do it? Then we'd have seen what SV wants, and what kind of composition they want of the defense structure. It would have been very exciting. So to SV and NATO. There is talk in SV about the future. In the Progress Party, we have given priority to the future. The future of young people, children and the elderly is ensured by a credible defense. That's a proper priority. The share of GDP has fallen so it sucks, so that's hardly what I'd call the 'inflation' of the defence budgets we've witnessed. SV was the first to scream after NATO operations in Kosovo – they almost chased NATO into Kosovo. Things may have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1329	Yeah, when it comes to the last one, NATO, I kind of feel that things have changed a little bit. That a majority of SV went in to participate in the NATO operation without a UN mandate is correct, but some of us were opposed to such participation. Now there is a collective party that decides – which Røssjorde can also vote for today, if he wishes – that if Norway is to participate in military operations, one should have a basis for international law, for it is the UN that is the world organisation, not NATO, as it may seem that Røssjorde believes. So to this with structure. I have to admit that my relationship to the Progress Party's structure is the following: For more money one gets to the Defense, for better defense one gets, almost independent of direction and structure. When it comes to the Progress Party's policy, you can look at what happened in the 1990s. How did a money use in the defense? Well, a brush of money into things you didn't need. That's why you're coming up with something that a humorous person calls'mole bags', but that's a lot of misinvestment. We talk, for example. in the next four billion dollars. This is simply a waste of money, and the driver in this arrangement has our Advance Party and Red Earth. My question – I have previously asked Røsjorde – is just this: What new mistakes does he make today? Unfortunately, I don't think they're few. Then one must know, and the defence committee also knows its leader, that it is impossible for SV to make so many difficult proposals – compared to the centre party’s slightly inexhaustible proposals – when one is not himself in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1338	Langeland opened his post by saying that SV granted NOK 23–25 billion to the defense. That's more than enough, he says. I wonder what SV really means by «not»? Is 23-25 billion too much? Clearly, it has to be. I'd like to hear what Langeland thinks about it. He accuses other parties – at least the Progress Party – of not prioritising children and young people. He refers to school, computers, etc. and sets these things up against each other. That, of course, is not right. The defence – as has been said earlier in this Chamber today – is precisely the guarantee that children will have a future. I understand Langeland so that he believes that no matter how much defence Norway has, we cannot stand against an outside enemy. Does he mean that the defense is to be terminated? Is that okay? It's going to be a lot cheaper for Langeland. I see from the SV's proposal that they want the Østerdalen garrison to consist of Rena clay and Haslemoen. They want to put the dice down. Why do they want to put down the Terningmoen and maintain the Østerdalen garrison, when it is not – as I have said earlier today – somewhere to train? They also want to put down the region field. Like the centre parties, will they take the soldiers to North Norway to train there? That might be interesting to hear. It won't be much cheaper. The Corps have so far been involved. It is clear that it is nice with corps – I think corps music is great. Now it seems that the efforts of the night have been made: Halden has provided all the representatives with an e-mail with a proposal that the corps down there should be kept, and that would be nice. But it is very difficult to argue for the maintenance of a corps when a little further away at the same time lays down a garrison.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1351	For SV, who is concerned about having a credible defense, it's clear that we see the difference between a musical orp's and a garrison. But there's also a big difference when it comes to the price tag. It left the representative Width to mention. When SV believes that the defence budget for the years ahead should be between NOK 23 and 25 billion, it is based on an assessment of the enemy image and on the future scenario of the enemy image. It's also because we don't want to take an active part in NATO's world police role. And this is where I mean that the Norwegian potion goes beyond its powers. For one, then, a run in relation to the Defense is about having forces ready for international operations under the NATO regime – the Labour Party is clear about this – and one should also be able to set up forces for the EU’s crisis management force. Despite the fact that Norway is not a member of the Union, Norway must therefore be involved in defending the interests of the Union. This is not a policy that matches the policy that SV stands for. There is no doubt about it here. SV will not be involved in investments for which the Progress Party and other parties agree. We want to limit the level of investment on which one is committed, just to make sure that we have a defence that is in place across the country, and SV will, like the only party on the Stortinget, strengthen Coast Guard and environmental and resource monitoring. I think there's a lot of people going to be involved. Finally to the Dörningmoen: The Dörningmoen is located in the middle of Elverum. There's enough capacity in the area. That's why we're proposing what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1362	That's right, as Mr. Langeland says that he and his party have not been represented in the committee. I've told you before, I'm sorry. It had probably seemed advocating on Mr. Langeland's defence policy and its understanding, and he could possibly improve his own group's thinking. Thus, even after eight years in the Committee, it has not been possible for SV to submit proposals for a structure. We hope – if SV is represented in a way that they are satisfied with at the next elections – that the defence committee will also be given priority in order to see the defence structure of the SV within four years. That would interest many people even beyond SV's ranges. Sir. Langeland said there's been some mess in NATO's sequences. Yes, we have knowingly recorded that. Sir. Langeland now that NATO should get out of Kosovo and the former Yugoslavia faster than fraud, or should NATO still be there? So to Norwegian soldiers and structure, to turn a little bit back to it. Sir. Langeland and SV that Norwegian soldiers must have proper equipment, at least in line with, or at any rate better than, a possible opponent? Is that a goal for SV? Or are you going to have a cheap solution that doesn't enable the soldiers to do the job? That's what he said. Langeland that the Progress Party has contributed to a lot of waste. We are very pleased that the defense has not been put to large tests. Very much of the investment made at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s was investment decided during the cold war. Who then knew what would happen? We took responsibility, and we are pleased that the facilities were not used. Today we have to think further in a 20-year perspective. It requires courage to make decisions about initial investment. That's what I'm talking about, sir. Obviously Langeland is not able to. Will, sir. For example, Langeland. invest money in an air defence for the future, which is absolutely necessary to exercise sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1373	With regard to NATO and Kosovo, there is no doubt that it is absolutely necessary to be present in Kosovo. But my question in relation to the fact that the case is now being brought up again was whether one could have solved this in ways other than what one did when, without a constitutional basis, one went into attack on an independent state, and actually carried out some attacks that, in my opinion, are strongly in conflict with both the one and the other, among other things. were refugee campers, hospitals and news stations some of the attack measures. From the Norwegian side and from the international side, there must be a greater emphasis on action before conflicts occur. It's our SV line as long as I've been in SV, working to help with the economy where it's necessary, and to support assistance where it's necessary, to dampen the level of conflict around the world. Not everyone is interested in it. Many are interested that there should be a level of conflict, so that there will be wars and crises. I'm not saying it's the Progress Party. But there is no doubt that the more aggressive a person acts internationally, the greater the problem, such as us. looks in relation to Bush. Then to the Air Force. We will vote against the proposal from, among others. The Advance Party and the Right, which is also the intention of the plural, to purchase new transport aircraft and fighter aircraft. When it comes to the Advance Party, they're going to spend 30 billion dollars on new flights. They trash out of taxpayers' money all the way. Finally, when this applies to characters, seduction and objectivity, one of the points is that when a character is given, it is not possible to be objective. That's the problem for those who are in favour of such systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1387	Like the rapporteur of the matter, I would like to start with some of the more fundamental aspects, namely the threat picture. I share the views expressed by the representative Røsjorde at the beginning of today's debate, namely that Norway can neither now nor at any time rise above its geopolitical position, and that it would be directly naive in Norwegian defence policy to ignore it. That doesn't mean that we now have an invasion threat from our neighbor in the east, but it would be naive to assume that we should be so wise that we could see 10–15–20 years into the future, and then say: we can confidently expect that we won't be exposed to anything. At that point, the Left shares, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, the image that the representative Røssjord drew, and that we also share with the Right. We expressed it this way in the center parts when we presented our alternative, that the government has also analyzed this, but they essentially didn't take the consequences of the analysis. So to what the left considers to be the heavy things in this case. I'm going to go into them before I get into the practical consequences. Firstly, the defence must rest in the people. The defence must rest in the people in such a way that the duty of protection and the production through it are so serious and so meaningful that someone wants it, and at the same time gives them such competence that they want to participate in it. But production must also be so good and must have such a level that, in no year's time, the security ratio is so low that the Norwegian people are not willing to give money to the defense we have. Or that, for that matter, as some people said earlier today, we end up with a professional defense where the officers are good, while the soldiers responsible for protection are recruited from the Norwegian response to the troubles in Marseille. This is achieved only by using the traditions that rest in the people, which we know around the whole country. On this point, I am concerned about the joint comments that the Labour Party and the Progress Party have on the duty of protection, because it can be seen that it is not considered to be strong enough. I'm thinking maybe less concerned about the Advancement Party than about the Workers' Party. The reason why I am that is, is that the Workers' Party initially actually presented the document that we are dealing with today, and that had such a low production of strength that if it had not been adjusted – first of all by the Committee and then partly by the Workers' Party itself – we would have been in a duty share of 37 p.m. This, I think, is serious, and I think it is gratifying that this is corrected by increasing education through Homeland Protection, but perhaps also primarily by strengthening the Army, both by training hunters in battalion and the Thunder Brigade. And let me comment on the last one. It had to be totally unprofessional for a country that is in alliance with the United States, not even trying to give a back cover and a fuse of the pre-stores we have, but to say in some form of trønderenglish: «Welcome to the homeguard training center in Stjørdal. Welcome! It's much better to know that there's an intact brigade structure that can be mobilized, that knows the lean, that can be set up. It would be totally irresponsible if this element had not been introduced. It's been introduced by the majority, and I think it's very positive today. The second element that matters to the Left is the northern regions, and they have also been strengthened. They have been strengthened, among others. through what has happened to MTB as a structural element, and it is entirely in place, at least in any form of peacetime crisis. One could imagine a situation in the protection zone around Svalbard: Send a frigate – dramatic escalation. Send an MTB – one sticks to the logic that Norway has held throughout the cold war. Anyone who turns in Norwegian history – I realized that the representative Langeland had not done so – will know that someone will find pictures from about every decade where Norwegian MTBs have brought up Russian jets that were on their way in where they were not supposed to be. So this is a predictable element, and it's an element that's absolutely necessary to have respect for our territorial sea, and to give a signal to everyone else that we're serious about it. The most important thing, if you are to deliver what is necessary, is that there is a production that is sufficient. Therefore there must be some more facilities, therefore there must be some more camps, and in that way it is good that both Heistandmoen, Haslemoen and Dombås are there. But my concern is as follows: Homeland must have 83,000. I hope, after the representative of Godal's answer, that you actually go through the setting of the Vulnerability Committee that exists, before you find out what an upgraded competent home security system, together with the necessary specialist units – whether it's hunter units or the police special units – must have in order to meet the vulnerability threats that we are now familiar with, and that are mapped by the setting of the Willoch Committee, but unfortunately are not included in the proposition. Therefore, I am pleased with the following: 20 years ago, I triggered laughter in the lodge on my right when I wanted to strengthen Homeland Protection. It was a pleasant session, and then I realized that for parts of the Norwegian officer's corps, the Home Guard was a kind of entertainment chute. Fortunately, the Storting doesn't look at it, and so the Left doesn't look at it. It's not the backpacking option that's the theme, but it's people who know where they live, who have competence and know how to act in a known terrain. It's an invaluable thing, especially when you're going to change your task from taking care of mobilization depots to taking care of what the new vulnerability image is exposing us to. Then it's absolutely invaluable, just to know that you can meet this danger with all the specialist units, and then you have to produce enough to get it done. When it comes to how we're going to finance this, the representative Røss grounde in what's his strength: authority and humor, a kind of imaginative depiction of how the Christian People's Party could run the collection, the Left People could take in the bottle tap, and the central partisans could run the bases. I have to trust the representative Røsjorde that in the centre we have a secret plan for how we really should achieve the slimming down of the Defence Command and the Department, and that is that we should have a call when the representative Røsjorde has joined as a county. The call is: arranges a permanent collegiate game in the Coin Street and at Huseby to people because of Røss soil's unruly energy and merriment almost giving up and taking any pension agreement as an advantage. Yes, it could actually be an active tool. But I'm not going to drive it anymore, because I'm sure it was a bit serious. The seriousness of this is that there is no question of going into a debate where the defense is going to put down moes, where people are going to ‘blow’ in their locality, and then you are not going to run bone-hard rationalization at the top of the top of the top layer. We live in a Norway where the police are exposed to it. After all, the representative Hernæs, who has been up here before, has halved the number of police districts, believing that this means that he gets policemen into the streets – he's aged that way. Health workers are exposed to it, teachers are exposed to it, but not tops and generals and majors and those in the middle. What is this thing? This isn't going to work. It's not possible to act this way. Some have said that it was a big scandal that the Stortinget didn't grant enough money, and there may be a point in it, but it's certainly an equally large scandal that you can't deliver rationalization, that you almost sit with a system where one investigation is replaced by the other, while the one who made the first investigation, doesn't dare do anything because he's going to advance to a higher position. If anyone sees this as a criticism of both professional, administrative and political leaders independent of the party, then it's quite correct. And it is formulated not to be a post-war clock on behalf of the past, but to make a pressure on behalf of the future. When the center now puts in a budget, where we adjust ourselves to NOK 29 billion, we know that if we have a pressure on what's going on, that goes on the management structures, that goes on the logistics organisations, and we have a minimum of property competence in selling the right things without doing anything stupid – and then there's no stone caves on Akershu's, nor the Garden's barracks on Huseby – we get this. But without that pressure – and I get to say it out loud in the hall: I know that when the pressure is gone in municipal organisation, and I have been the boss of some other units that have not had the pressure – then nothing happens! Say to people: Sit calm, write an investigation, and you get money. They don't move, they move on everyone else. And we're going to have a defense to have a defense, we're not going to have a defense to have a paper-moving ability. We're not going to get close to the situation in Spain after Franco, where there were so many generals and tops again because they had earned it. We have to go into these structures with a kind of toughness and a kind of strength that we haven't made up right now. If not, we mock the Norwegian people, those who are going to pay the money that at least the Left is willing to pay. We mock those people who are going to have the word in the Defense. If you don't expose the top structures to this type of critical review, you simply don't do your job. It's on that basis that we can test a scheme, and when the representative, Restad, who is well known as a systematic petitizer with a good overview, delivers 29 billion, and promises to deliver, the parties that are closest to us in numbers, namely the Right Party and the Advance Party, should take it as a good signal. Because that's this way we can get to something. I will end by saying to the Workers' Party that I think it is very important here today that the Workers' Party explains its somewhat ambiguous attitude to the duty of protection. Is the duty of protection to be abolished only? You don't dare say that. Or do you really mean what very many of us now say, that it's going to be serious in the future and hold on? The left believes that it is absolutely essential for people to have confidence in the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1424	The representative Dørum is trying to draw a threat picture where some get the characteristic naive, and where his image of the threat is the right one. I believe that the representative is sitting with an old black and white machine, and that he should try to get the remote control started and change it to the right picture. I don't think it's the invasion defense today and the threat in the north that's the big one. We're no longer going to lie in a road tomb in the inner Troms. That's not what's Norwegian politics anymore. If you go over to the threat picture that I imagine, maybe it's internal European problems. That is what is happening in Kosovo, which is a problem for Norwegian defence, it is the emigration from North Africa that is swimming across Europe in the south, there are eight million Muslims in France, that is poverty, that is environmental problems – I actually thought the Left was concerned with the environmental problems that can create serious problems for society, cf. The Chernobyl accident – it's IT issues, hackers that can paralyze the entire Norwegian defence system and the entire Norwegian community, it's the power supply, etc. I think that if the representative Dørum were able to set up the parabola, so that he got the right threat picture, he would realize that it's not the defense that he's trying to draw a picture of, we need in Norway. I would like to ask the representative Dørum to make a comment on whether it is not that he lives in a black and white time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1436	I understand that the representative Halvorsen has not read the setting of the Willoch Committee. The Willoch Committee was set up by former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum to just draw that threat picture. I deeply regret that the Vulnerability Committee's suspension is not part of the matter we are dealing with today. This leads, among other things, to: to the reason that it's important that people have a part in the defense, that leads to the reason for a vital up-front defense, and that leads us not to have a home protection where one has to stand 30 years in the reels to deliver 83 000 men in production. This leads, in addition to the fact that we have a competent police force, to the fact that we have competent citizens. The picture in the north isn't of invasion, but of a rich place on the globe with superstitious resources, where maintaining stability, maintaining predictability, is actually part of our international commitment. The MTBs, which the Workers' Party agreed to under the reasonable pressure that arose, are part of it to show that we are doing our job in the north. And what we have in defense is no more than what is really politically necessary for a future situation that I don't know, but let's say Putin V got a crisis in Central Asia in 15 years: then the result comes: move to Vardø – automatic answering machine – and a HV team with bought-out Kalashnikovs. That's a bad way to do it. In such a situation, we must at least think as Finns do. Finns today say the following: Very serious reduction of the army – to be reduced from 26 to 22 brigades. And Finns don't boast, they're just there. They're just there, so everyone knows that one can't just crawl in. But they don't break it. That's what I'm talking about: we're not going to threaten anyone, but we're going to be so present that we don't get the alliance of liberals, pacifists and relaxants who break down our entire defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1451	There has been a lot of good sense of humor today – both in the collection, in the bottle tray and in the chair room – a sense of humor that I think is absolutely excellent in the cooking restaurant, but which I don't think has anything particularly to do with the staging room when we discuss something as important as having coverage for the defence framework that we are now adopting. And I think the center parts are acting together in terms of the sub-coverage. When I showed a deficit of half a billion kroner instead, Restad allowed himself to answer that this he had heard as rumors. Now I don't know how the communication is between Mr. Restad and his parliamentary leader, but it is now time that the Ministry of Defence sent a letter to the parliamentary leaders and showed a deficit of 461 million. kr in relation to the frames to which the centre party has moved. Then, once again – with the story we have about the defence, where we have had good decisions, but lack of willingness to follow up with money – I have to say that we need something more concrete: Where do the centre parties intend to take this money from? Otherwise, we're in exactly the same situation as before. Then it's the region field. The government of which both Dørum and Restad were members presented the notification of the region field, and they used the concept of national considerations to justify not being able to practice on Swedish soil. It was also the government that said that the option that was finally chosen was the worst of all alternatives. Does the representative, Restad, think it reasonable, after this, to continue the argument about the region field as if one could practice in Sweden, and as if one did not know that the option you chose could be better? And then, if it's time, where are we going to practice? So I just want to end by saying that when we get this power collection on Defense in Hedmark, it's not because of the center parties, but despite the attitude that the center parties have had on this important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1464	The President assumes that the line was addressed to Odd Einar Dørum – not to Restad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1467	To be confused with the old Kripos man and military friend Restad, I see it as a recognition. In terms of coverage issues, the center had an invasion that we've recognised that people either haven't had time to go into, or have not accepted. That is why we have changed the framework, as Mr Restad explained earlier today, to NOK 29 billion. We take responsibility and will take responsibility for the structure that is being adopted. I don't want to express it in any other way. But in fact, we believe that it is absolutely necessary in a proposition – which is not a budget – to have the kind of pressure on the structures that what has not yet happened to slim down staffs and support functions is finally happening. It's absolutely necessary to have the pressure! I have to be honest with you – if you get away from any defence experience, just take a municipal political experience – that without that pressure, nothing happens. I am concerned that the pressure should be there. I think that the representative Hernæs should be pleased with what I said in a previous line to the representative Ingvald Godal, namely that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, which I represent – not the Centre Party, although I am pleased to be compared with Restad – has a lot in common with the Right, but we are also with the Progress Party on many important points. It's a reality that we're going to take inwards. And when this happens, it's important to be aware of this and hear that we're saying that we're adjusting our frame. But we want pressure. We want to click on the conversion work that also has to be done at the top of the Defense. The Norwegian people who pay the tax bill deserve it. As for the shooting range, it's previously commented by Restad, and I can't take it in this post. We're making proposals that we think are necessary when we get new critical questions and costs on the table. We put forward an overall plan on May 28. Of course, we're very concerned that people should be trained properly. We will also take the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1478	Unlike others, at least I appreciate that, sir. Doors – Mr. Dørum - expresses its views with a mixture of seriousness and humor even in the staging room. That's right, sir. Dørum says: With regard to the description of the environment, the challenges we face, the Left and the Centre parties have the same attitude as the Progress Party – and the Right, for that matter. It is precisely what is involved in forming the basis for increasing the structure, a more realistic approach than the Labour Party has brought to debate. And as it now seems to be, the result is also a structural increase. Then Mr. Door an address for Finland. I just get to say that unlike Norway and the Left in Norway, I did not sign the mine protocol, but it may not be nice to remember. Then I would like to point out that what the center parties, the right and the progress party now together are going to go in for will cost. Rightly, the center has not wanted to spend money on getting a fourth brigade, but probably you have to spend at least SEK 1.5 billion more than what was at stake, and then the center's alternative is also underfunded. So what do you do with that? So to the question of why we're not involved in cutting down more in terms of management. Well, we're willing to do it when the management that's now being formed gets reorganized the defense. You can't remove the management that's supposed to do the job. You have to take the time to help out and see how it goes. I understand very well that a major does not appear on a branch and cuts off the branch on the inside without an order from a general – so you have to be able to interpret it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1491	The representative Røsjorde summed up in a precise way in his last line that a major obviously does not. It's not the major that's the problem. It's the general or the general's superior in the line that's the problem. And if management then has no pressure, it's clear that those who sit down can't be expected to participate with any commitment. My experience from small and large public appliances is that if management does not expose itself and find that it is serious, any normally thinking person will be encouraged to sanctify himself. That's right! I am busy having this printed on the changes. I have, in modesty, managed organisations of change that are about a different kind of life and death than defence. The defense is about what we hope to prevent, but which is tough enough when it happens. And I have to say that it has been possible for someone who has been willing to go into these situations as a leader, but it is demanding. Very demanding! The easiest thing is actually to stay away from. After all, I have limited experience in running a department and reorganizing it in a year. It was very demanding, and fortunately the competent people were. But I have the following experience: if you know what you want and keep pressure on it, you also get a result. That's my whole point. This pressure, which I thought there was cross-political agreement on in this big business, I feel it is an obligation to keep pressurised when I have the word here today. When it comes to the increase in the structure of war, it's right that we initially had four brigades. But we also had to compromise on the real policy that arose. We had to increase the frame by one billion dollars and went down from four to three and a half brigade, in the sense that we phased in the trombone brigade, which we had prioritised as a number. 1st@item: inlistbox But we were not able to build the strength that we could do in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1502	I think I have to be so loving that I give the representative Dørum the opportunity to respond to what he did not get in his previous line, namely his position in the region field of the East, and where the forces he is now helping to add to Østerdal garrison are going to practice. There's not so many possibilities. We can continue to shoot in the Dovre National Guards, with shootings that have a completely different range from those we had at the time of the shooting, but today we have a completely different view of the environment than we had at the time. The second option is to create an air bridge – I was saying a Berlin bridge – between Østerdalen and Nord-Norway. It may not be particularly desirable economically, practically or environmentally, but I am unable to see other alternatives. I think the centre parties – I still perceive that they stand together – should give an answer to this. And then one more thing about the frame: I still think it's too easy to make a kind of word game about a subcovery of half a billion dollars. This is, as I said, figures coming from the Ministry of Defence to the parliamentary leaders. And I want to repeat what I said in a previous post. It's good practice in Stortinget that we don't play with hypothetical number sizes, but we're dealing with the investigations that come from the departments. In that case, it is not appropriate to point out that the representatives are otherwise good with figures. So finally, the right has never used a savings of 450 police officers to balance any budget. The Labour Party put forward proposals on this, but we did not. I also believe that Mr Dørum is aware of this. In addition to that, we are also pleased that in very significant areas there is a settlement between the defence between the centre parties and us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1513	The representative Hernæs is quite right in what logical alternatives exist, as long as there is no shooting field in the Østerdalen. That's absolutely right. What we've been asking is to clarify the questions that have now been raised. That is what is in our proposal. It doesn't go further than that. We thought it was responsible for the problems that have arisen with regard to noise and any costs. That's what we've been asking for. It is that until that field becomes clear, you have to use existing fields. As described, they are located on Dovre and in North Norway. I don't have anything to add to it. It was a completely logical reasoning that the representative Hernæs put forward in my place, and I agree to it. When it comes to aging, I have to say the following: in the proposition we got, there was almost no number. There is no organisation map either. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left asked for figures from the Ministry of Defence. We were initially told that it was almost impossible to deliver the numbers. ==References== one week before the deadline we received some answers, and then there was a dialogue about this. We have a willingness to go in with any number, so that what we actually vote for is going to be the result. That's how we've been working all along. That's how we started working, and then we started getting answers from the department. The members of the committee, i.e. the representatives of Strawway, Rise and Restad, worked like this, and they've adjusted. We are then responsible for the fact that when we wanted a larger production and a greater presence in the north, we adjusted our framework to NOK 29 billion, and it is clear that it provides our starting point for further operations. But I don't want to comment on documents I haven't seen, from this pulpit. I have to relate to the work that has been done, and to the fact that we will take responsibility for our actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1524	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1527	Before I begin my post, I must be allowed to say that I am amazed that the pressure in the left is so much greater when they are in this room than when they are in the government. As the National Auditorate has said to us, there was nothing done to remove someone in the Defence Command in the two years that Bondevik had government power. But now we are finally there when the major issue of the conversion of the defence is to be decided. There has been a lot of work going on both within the defence, in the political life and in the ministry, and a lot of work will remain in the defense after this day as well. Many frustrations among the employees have been, and yet they are not completely over, I think. And there's been a lot of computations, and there's been different results all over the place. It gives cause for concern and does not make it easier to make difficult decisions here in the house. My hope, however, is that once the decisions have been taken, they will be put together to implement them. It has not always been the case in the Defense until today. This time I hope that workouts will not take place. Sick if not all the decisions we have been invited by the Government to take will be taken, it is nevertheless so that most of the proposals from the Government will be adopted tonight. A few further investigations will be carried out in the coming months. Defence has now been the subject of structural change for many years, both in the Air Force and in the Maritime Defence. I am concerned that the structure we adopt today will not fully fit into the economic framework, but that the economic framework has increased considerably. It is important that employees can now concentrate on their actual job and not just carry out new investigations. Regardless of whether the debate is about the economic framework, closures and relocations, the employees are and become the most important thing we have in the defense. Therefore, staff, family and recruitment policies are very important, but it is also important that there is room for proper investment so that employees can do their job in a timely manner. And then it's important that the defense still works to get the women's share up. I would say that there will be a better defence with more women, even in higher positions. While the Bondevik government was turning the thumb down, the Workers' Party and the Right were standing together throughout this great process of building the new MTBs of the Skjold class. I am therefore particularly pleased that we have agreed that five new MTBs will be built. These vessels are beautiful, functional, fast and hypermodern, developed and built in Norway for Norwegian conditions. Many have been the ones who have been in the battle for Shield and the jobs that this construction will lead to. On our long coast, there are enough tasks to address: presence, deterrence and help in emergency situations are some of them. Now, when we decide to lay down the vast majority of the maritime defence districts, which we have just actually established, and thus will have far fewer employees in the management structure of the Maritime Defense, we believe that there must be room to operate the MTB fleet without going beyond other parts of the operational Maritime Defense. Out of the offices and into the ships of practical seafarers off our long coast must be the target. Less bureaucracy and more practical work must also apply in the Defence in the future. I am also very pleased that Coast Guard base remains in Blackland and that their important work can be continued. Here, the presence is important, but very important is also the control of fisheries and the assistance provided by the Coast Guard in emergency situations. On the Barents Sea, the Norwegian Coast Guard is an immediate help to all people from all nations who have their work up there, and at least in wintertime, there is no weekend to work on the Barents Sea. The defence of Norway is built up over time throughout the country, and a large number of defence municipalities have benefited from having safe and good jobs in the Defence and the tax revenues the defence employees have brought with them. Many communities also benefit from the defence staff and their families, their knowledge and commitment. But it's a fact that many units are more expensive to operate than fewer and larger, unfortunately. It is not just that each camp or mo should have its management and structure, but even more so that Norway, in line with all other countries, has had an adventurous technological development. Now we communicate via e-mail, mobile phone, text messages and video conferences, and less often via faxes, seminars, conferences and physical meetings. This is a reality that the entire Norwegian community must take inwards, including the Defence. The new technology makes some tasks superfluous, but it's expensive to buy, and it's running out of date. It's especially spoken from the centralization parties, but in reality it's an adaptation to today's technological reality. It's a development that we may dislike or even, but in any case, we who are chosen to be responsible, take this development seriously and deal with it in an offensive way. Just as new technology gives us new opportunities, it also has its side effects. Fewer people are needed than before to do the same jobs. The defense has been good at educating its people in all branches and in all ways for the important tasks they have in domestic and foreign countries. But they haven't been as good everywhere to cooperate with each other in the same disciplines across the defenses. The transformation we are now adopting will ensure that cooperation will now become the normal and not the exception. We are also concerned that education at war school level and upwards must be accepted as soon as possible in line with civil education. Almost all the counties lose something in this conversion. A few people get something more than they have today, but the hard thing is to lay down. It's bad for the employees, for some completely incomprehensible. It is painful and difficult for the communities, almost unimaginable, when we look at the beautiful, old, well-kept, historical places that have given their communities identity, security and pride. In my home country, Vestfold, this applies to the camp in Stavern. I believe the word 'care' is the only word that covers and is the correct description of many's personal feelings when we now acknowledge the fact that the closure is adopted here tonight. In retrospect, all good forces must be gathered in the state and municipalities to care for the cultural-historical national taxes, so that in the future the public can benefit from the beautiful natural pearls that the Defense no longer needs. But life is such that sorrows and joys follow one another. In Westfold we will now keep the Air Force station at Mågerø in Tjøme with associated school activities, which I very much appreciate. The commanding school at Karljohansvern in Horten will in future become the Naval Defence Command School, but the Maritime Defence District and the War Station must be closed down. On the other hand, the technical workshop that does a lot of good work for the defense will be kept in Horten. If we want to keep the Royal Norwegian Marines Music Corps in Horten, we don't know until the vote is over here tonight. But at least we in the Labour Party will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1556	We are discussing today the conversion of the Defense. It's a big and important thing. It's about what kind of defence structure Norway is going to have in the future. It's about whether we're going to have a credible defense. Should we have presence, and should we show that we are asserting sovereignty over our areas on land and not least at sea? It's about being able to monitor our marine areas. It's about preventing you from getting intruders. It's about preventing us from getting a disaster that can hit our coast, both nuclear waste to be transported north along the coast, and quantities of liquid asphalt to be transported south along the coast. It's about having a coastguard that's operational. It's about having presence and showing its flag. And it's about protecting and guarding our natural resources that exist in both the Norwegian economic zone and the Smutthole and the Smutthavet. There's talk of war and defense. I want to say it so strongly: World War III is being fought today, and it concerns who is controlling the food that the world's population is going to eat, the pure food – the food in the sea. What is happening today, both in the Barents Sea, in our zone and in the Smuthavet, is totally out of control. Coast Guards and our naval vessels have nothing to do with the international filth and dirtholes that exist, over which we do not have jurisdiction. It is also about preserving our coastal forts, and I am pleased with the arrangement that you have come up with in the position, that we should at least have them in the'mill bag'. I am also pleased that there is room for the MTBs in the budget, and of course the frigates – they are coming – but it is also about having enough money to keep both coastguards and frigates in swing. We have the battleboat network – that's okay – that was supposed to be the substitute for the coastal forts, but I must honestly say that if you were to bet everything on those battleboats and on soldiers who are about to use the food package and the thermos principle when they're going to war, it gets a little thin in my opinion. It's all about whether we're going to have a credible air defense. It's obvious that if we're going to have a defense, we need both a marine defense and an air defence. We have to buy fighter aircraft, and they have to be available for purchase outside the framework. Of course, it is also about whether we are going to engage in war in other countries. I have said this before: the coastal party is totally opposed to the fact that we are going to wage war in Kosovo or anywhere else in the world. Norway has always been a peaceful nation. We've never fought in other countries. That is why I must say that the use of money, the waste of money in connection with our commitment to Kosovo, is without the consent of the Coastal Party, at least. It's about whether we're going to have a credible protection obligation, and with the attitude that's on the table, it looks like we can get it in place. I have been constantly asking a number of questions since New Year's, along with a number of other representatives here in Stortinget on coastal surveillance, to ensure that we get an upgrade of the coastal radar chain in the south. Using 200-300 million. kr over a five-year period we can monitor the entire Norwegian economic zone with radar – not to Tromsø, but it is said that there is a work going on. Then I would like to say a few words about Reitan/Yes. We are facing a situation with the co-location of the Defence Command with NATO. It is obvious that by prioritizing Reitan over Yåttå you do not get the control of the Barents Sea that you would have with Reitan as your headquarters. And I want to say it with a verse: Rei-ta-ti-ra-ti-rei-ta-ti-Reitan! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1579	The President would like to thank you for this important article in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1582	I share the position of the representative of Bastisen, but I'm not going to try to put it that way, just short and factually and soberly stress that with regard to the location of headquarters, we agree. Today's debate on the conversion of defence over the next four years shows that the government's proposals have been substantially amended in several areas. The majority want a stronger national defence and also a slightly higher economic framework, while there is a broad consensus to maintain our capacity and participate jointly in international peace and crisis management operations. This I think is good for the Defense, and that's good for the country. We are pleased that most of the changes are drawing the outcome closer to the alternative that the central parties put forward on 28 May, namely, that the Home Office's deployment force was not cut to 60,000 men, as the Government suggested, but the Home Office will retain 83,000 soldiers, as the center wanted. The strong reduction of the protection obligation is slowed down, inter alia: by maintaining the Heistadmoen, the educational garrison, also in violation of the Government’s proposals. In the pact with the proposals of the Centre Parties, the proposal for new defence districts is dropped and territorial responsibility is given to today's 18 HV districts. The army is strengthened in line with the Government's proposal, with a mobilization brigade in Trøndelag. The government's proposal to remove the missile torpedo boats as structural elements of the Marine Defense Force is rejected, and new MTBs of the Skjold class will be built. The military presence in North Norway is strengthened within several defence sectors, not least within the Marines, which are to control our large seas. So it's a majority for a stronger war structure than the government proposed. What now suggests becoming the decision of the majority on defence structure is quite close to the alternatives of the centre parties in many areas. With regard to the financing of the future defence, the central parties also have a proposal that is slightly above the Labour Party. It should therefore now be possible to obtain subsidiary support from other parties during the vote on this later today. In advance, the Government expressed a strong desire to reach a settlement that would oblige the parties to provide the Defence Force with a stable and predictable framework during the demanding transition period they are now facing. For my part, I expressed full agreement on this point of view. It would be a great advantage to have had a wide-ranging agreement, both on the structure and on the financial framework. It's not that far. And I have to say it has surprised me that the Prime Minister himself has not put greater weight into the work of achieving such a settlement. He let this run, so that today we get a crack at several points, especially in terms of the financial framework. If the government believes a settlement is as important as it has expressed, I would have expected a stronger commitment, not only from the defence minister, who was in activity, but also from the government's management, with a view to reaching this defence policy settlement that we had served with. During the final question on the suspension of the Defence Committee, the Centre Parties have adapted their proposals in order to facilitate the process of obtaining decisions which could guide a settlement. It also means that we have found – and would – to have to – increase the financial framework somewhat in relation to the Government’s proposals, but nevertheless within reasonable limits. The defence structure for which there is now a majority may, if adopted, together with the proposals of the Centre Parties for a financial framework for the four-year period provide the framework necessary for the conversion of the Defence. I therefore challenge both the parties to the left and to the right of the centre to see the possibility that there is a common decision here, even if they do not correspond to the primary position of the lots. What disappoints me most about the outcome of today's treatment is that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in a kind of coalition really help to weaken the general protection obligation. Otherwise, many good decisions are made tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1605	This has been a debate that has been blessed free of individual questions. I think that's very true, because a good part of the grips that are now being done is absolutely necessary to clear up space for more fighting force in the Defense. We need that money to get a better defense. I have felt from time to time that I have been attending the office meeting in the Ministry's budget department, as the debate has so far gone. But it is also no wonder, because the debate on defence appropriations over the last few years has often been the debate on miscalculations and figures that have proven to be different. And it's no wonder that there's a debate on this. But it's a demanding treatment we're through, because the question being asked is how much money are we willing to spend on an insurance premium at a time when the enemy in question didn't have to stand around the door. Then it is tempting to postpone and postpone, and that is the story of the 1990s and one of the important reasons for the imbalance in defence. There is reason to stress that the Defence is an insurance premium. So we're going to take into account the unexpected, and no matter how good the desktop wars are at making scenarios, the story of the last century is the story of the unexpected developments, and so the defense has to be large enough and prepared enough for the unexpected. I think it's very important to stress that this is a defense based on the alliance, where we have an obligation to take care of our own, but at the same time enable us to work for the common good. Before this debate, there have been attempts to contrast bets here at home with bets out. It's a false contrast. We have to be able to operate and contribute out, precisely to get solidarity from our allies here at home if necessary. It is absolutely right that it has been very desirable to settle the defence problem in order to avoid the imbalance we have had for many years. But any settlement is not desirable; the defense must be good enough. And the problem with a settlement is that it is always the last boat in the convoy that determines the speed, and in this case the Workers' Party. The proposal put forward by the Government was simply too small. And when you say that it was the realistic setting -- yes, it's a will question what is realistic. The rest of us have been willing over the years to grant higher defence budgets than the Workers' Party, and therefore had greater opportunities to get a defence that is good enough. We get a majority for the structure. I would warn representatives not to go too far in assuming the ownership of the structure that is. Many people have thought the same thing. I assume that the representative Rise, when he looks through the record from his post, will understand that he went well – the contribution has probably been to put plastics around what you had thought. That's the difference. The reality is that many of these ideas about the structure of war have been thought in parallel in several groups, and it is precisely the strength of the matter that one can think similarly. That it has been necessary to fight through e.g. The MTBs have been tough when no one else is there, but there is another side to the matter. The defence that we are adopting today has a price tag. There, I think we're going to base the department's calculations, and so that price tag is $118 billion, and in line with that, it's promoting right-wing proposals today. That proposal is the best basis for a settlement that makes money and structure related. Any other lower proposal will cause problems to a greater or lesser degree, depending on how detailed it can be managed. But I don't think this is the time for calculating operations to try to get the same for a lower price. That, I think, gives us unpleasant surprises. So, of course, the question is, are we going to agree to vote for proposals that are not our own? Our group will consider it under the express condition that in that case it is the floor we set up, and that there are opportunities to fight to go over later. That's a prerequisite for everything. It must later be clear to proposers that we will vote in this case in order to agree to establish the floor. So a very brief remark about Yahtå and Reitan. I want to say that I think these are very good arguments for both solutions. This means that both solutions are sound. The problem arises at the moment you do as the representative Restad and say that you send signals at the time of your choice. That is a very unwise position. This can be misunderstood in other countries, and there is no basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1629	I am now anxious that the bulk of the population will do exactly the same thing as the majority of the population and the government has criticised previous big business, namely to adopt a structure that does not guarantee the necessary money, as Jan Petersen mentioned. There is no official price tag on what will be the final decisions here tonight, simply because we do not know what the final decisions will be until they are taken. However, there are several party constellations that will do the same as we have criticised that the government asked the head of defence to do, that is to start with an economic framework, and then say, what do we get for this? This has always been thought wrong by the Progress Party. Based on Norway's security policy situation, the defence policy situation and the assessment of the long-term uncertainty in our neighbouring country, we should construct the defence we need in the form of a structure, and then we can ask what it costs. Then we can commit ourselves to commit ourselves in all future budgets to not voting for a budget without this floor that is the consequence of costs being included in the option. As soon as the decisions are taken on the structure, therefore, the Group of the Advance Party will ask the Ministry of Defence for an official estimate of the costs of the adopted structure, and there is much to suggest that there will be more than the 118 billion kroner mentioned by Petersen. We are aware that, as far as the price tag of structural decisions is concerned, which is to be properly calculated after a thorough review, the parties should enter into an obligatory written agreement that they will not vote for budget options for the next four years that do not have this minimum allocation, i.e. a floor. We don't want any thanks. That's our starting point. It's the only thing that can guarantee the predictability that everyone's talking about. Now, if you adopt a framework that doesn't cover what becomes the adopted structure, we're back in the old place where there's no predictability. So I invite the other parties: Let's adopt the structure – don't adopt a financial framework – and figure out what it costs! And then we all sign – following the pattern of the cash support agreement that just gave predictability in that area – that we will not vote for anything less for the defence budget in the next four years. So there's been a lot of people who have talked a lot about economics, even when it comes to investment. I can't believe that we couldn't now have made the political decision that when F-16 has to be phased out, we're going to be involved in the development of a new fighter plane, either the European or the American – and we can decide that now – and that we're going to acquire 60 aircraft. There can be no reason for this to create unforeseeableness by perhaps being included in the ordinary defence budget. That is why, in the revised national budget, we have put forward proposals to set up a fund for participation in the development and acquisition of 60 new fighter aircraft, and we allocate NOK 30 billion. It is still less than the additional income received by the State as a result of extraordinary income in the current year. This is an amount that will then be set aside, as it stands, managed, and automatically payable over many years. That's how we let go of quarrelling if we're going to have a fighter plane or not, which is what the chief of defense has said is the most important thing in the long term. It may not be the case that ordinary defence operations are going up and down with large equipment acquisitions, or whether a government is given a majority in favour of a high degree of participation in international operations. That's this predictability, that one suddenly chooses to do something that costs a lot of money, we have to get away from it. Therefore, we need to find arrangements that ensure an even activity in the ordinary defence. Personally, at least I think it would have been best if we could ensure that all the large acquisitions were taken outside the ordinary budget framework. For fighter aircraft, it's $30 billion over 20 years, so $1.5 billion per year. years. It must be better to take it in one jaf – it’s in place – than to continue to have uncertainty. And if you want to take it within the framework, other things within the Defence must be reduced by NOK 1.5 billion, or a larger amount, because there will be some years when the money – on the basis of the cash support principle – will be paid. We think it's a completely irresponsible way the majority does it. We insist that we want to create a structure that we've proposed, and we're willing to grant what it costs. I think it's irresponsible of the majority to do it the other way around: to start from what they can afford.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1648	The government's proposal to convert the defense has its basis in a fundamental recognition that the defense has been in a deep, structural crisis for a number of years, and this crisis had only been marginally better or worse with a few hundred million dollars more or less. The defence is poorly organised in relation to the tasks it will perform, while the resources allocated to it are too small to operate and renew it responsibly. Today, we spend too much money on a defense that doesn't increase security, but where crazy use of money too often leads us to put planes on the ground, add ships to docks and toes on our stores. We want more certainty for each of the heads, not less. For every year that goes, the defense is also becoming even more old-fashioned and in even worse condition to solve its tasks, because the means to operate and not least renew it really do not exist, and because evolution has run from the cold war's way of organizing the defense. In fact, it means all countries, including our neighbor in the east. That is why all countries are inside a profound reorganization of their defences. In other words, our defence is within a negative development spiral, which in a few years will lead to a defence policy collapse if no drastic action is taken. In relatively few years – if we don't do anything about it, and it seems that we want to – everything will go with wages and clean operation of a large number of garrisons without real defence capabilities being produced. To quote a unanimous Defence Policy Selection, where all the parties on the Stortinget were represented, and which gave its position last year: «To counteract the growing imbalances of the defence and develop a defence adapted to the reality of the day and the demands of the future is not a matter of adjustment and rationalisation. It requires radical conversion." – This is what everyone said, from the Party of Advancement to SV. Similarly, in the 2000 Defence Study, the Chief Defence Officer stressed the need for a comprehensive and rapid conversion of the Defence Force. He justified this need both in terms of the need for security policy to modernise the strength structure and in terms of the economic need to reduce the size of defence. If we were to maintain and operate today's adopted structure, many of which are followers of, it would require at least NOK 36 billion in annual budgets – and I notice that no party is close to that figure here today. On the basis of these advices from the Defence Chief and the Defence Policy Committee, the Government recommended St. pp. No 45 significant interventions in the structure and organisation of the defence. We recommended both a reduction in the level of defence to adapt it to realistic but, I stress, increased the financial framework and a modernisation of defence to adapt it to a new security policy situation and military developments. The overall objective of the recommendations was to facilitate the modernisation of defence by cutting 5,000 annual works and reducing annual operating costs by DKK 2 billion. A change in the size recommended by the Government will necessarily be painful for both individuals and communities. However, we believe this is a price that must be paid if we are to provide a modern defence adapted to a new era, and not least secure jobs in the future. I would like to give my honor here from this pulpit to the Defence Command and Employees' Organisations for taking this challenge on a tight arm, even though they have, of course, had their critical remarks and thereby actually influenced the proposition. The government further recommends, as you know, measures to address the most affected municipalities, and there are several of them. In addition to the most understandable criticism with which the proposition has been met from organisations, communities and individuals strongly affected, the Government has also been criticised for recommending too strong a reduction in Defence. Well, I'm referring to the fact that, in relation to the level of the year, you increase the proposition by NOK 1 billion and through the Workers' Party's arrangement in the setting by NOK 1.5 billion in relation to today's level. And it's a demanding task for those parties that don't have the habit of cutting off the health pay scheme or the aid budget to get back coverage for billions of dollars to the defense. From many quarters, the proposition has been made that we prioritise participation internationally higher than the defence of Norwegian territory. I am particularly pleased with the comment of the Right-Leader on that point. I can't get to stress enough how much I disagree with this criticism. There are two main reasons why I believe that this argument is unreasonable: Firstly, a large but immature defence will not help Norway, either nationally or internationally. Such a defence will not effectively address the fight against any attacker. That time is past when big armies were fighting against each other. Nor would such a defence be able to cooperate appropriately with our allies. For me, the main reason for modernising the defence is precisely that it is necessary both to be able to operate effectively with our allies in the defence of Norway, and to meet smaller challenges against Norwegian sovereignty quickly and effectively on their own. Even without a single Norwegian soldier in Kosovo, we have to change the Norwegian defence. Secondly, in the basic sense, I disagree that there is some contradiction between our international efforts and the defence of Norway. As a small country in a vulnerable strategic position, Norway is completely dependent on both stable and predictable international framework conditions and a strong and vital NATO. Through our efforts internationally, we contribute to both. Therefore, our efforts are out of direct relevance to the defence of Norway. If we can't contribute, we can't count on help from the outside if we need it. So to the setting. I register with considerable joy that the government has received support for a great many of its overall grips. About 90 pst. of the proposals for localisation promoted by the Government and, in part, in the face of major protests, have received the agreement of the Committee. The Committee has endorsed the Government’s overall objectives in terms of annual reduction of 5000 staff – a tough challenge – and operational savings and modernisation of the defence strength structure. Therefore, despite some newspaper articles, there is no doubt that the Defence Committee recommends that Stortinget join a significant defence reform. I underline this because it's like the deviations from the proposition that come into focus, natural enough. But true is not a defense of 29 billion dollars or 30 billion dollars, different from a defense of 28.5 billion dollars, which is the Workers' Party's attitude. You don't fail the country and forget April 9 by going in for NOK 28.5 billion, while those who go in for NOK 29 billion or NOK 30 billion, carry your inheritance straight back. Fortunately, the committee position is free of this kind, and the debate has been largely so today. It underlines how much we stand together, and it is the most important thing for every country's security and defence policy. And here let me express unreservedly the honor of the committee's chairman and the case rapporteur. I would also like to add that when it has been said from some that the war structure deviates greatly from the proposition, it must be seen in the light of the economic realities of the position. It is not that 20,000 more people in the Home Guard or 10–15 fast in the ‘mill bag’ or a little slack brigade are a huge contribution to the fighting structure of the Defense. And to those who feel that they have mountained the MTBs, I have to add: the MTBs were also relaxed in relation to what we have now contributed to, which ensures the production of the MTB Shield from 2003 in a far different and direct way than what was in the arrangement of the centre parties. Here's left to the Right and the Working Party together. But for the sake of safety – and I say it clearly: the government will, as a matter of course, base the decisions after today’s debate on the further defence reform. At the same time, I must say that I am deeply concerned that what is adopted must be financed. Otherwise, we are back to the starting point: a systematically underfunded defence with a systematically underfunded structure that eventually collapses, and that next time the transitions will be even more dramatic than the government's proposition. Preliminary — I stress preliminary — analyses in the Department and the Defence Overcommands show that the majority proposals are in the range of DKK 1.3 to 2.4 billion above the economic levels of the proposition each year. When the difference between estimates is so large, it is due to the fact that the Department and the Defence Command have made some different assumptions. Storage, repetition exercise and limited investment in new material for, for example: The barrel brigade is capable of 350 million. kr a year, but there will be a little slack brigade. But of course, we can say that we have it, and that's the way we see it, there's a flower in the buttonhole. I don't think that's a good solution. If the Tronderbrigade is to be included in an approximate four-brigade structure from a 20-year perspective and is to be renewed crediblely, according to the Defence Command, it is worth an extra DKK 1 billion per year. In any case, the majority supplements will require a completely different and increased level of budget than foreseen in the proposal, especially beyond the four-year period. In addition, there will be very significant additional costs related to transport aircraft and as a result of the Committee’s proposal to postpone the decision on certain organisational changes. However, I am pleased that the Committee has asked for a new basis for rapid clarification of the activities related to Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller. The Committee's position does not, in summary, provide a basis for a binding and defined financial framework. The framework is actually referred to the annual budgetary procedures, as before, and we know how this can be done. I read the setting so that where the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Centre parties have a majority, the Centre will rely on these additions to cost NOK 29 billion, while the Right Party and the Advance Party believe it costs more. Here's the Right, the Advance Party, and I'm on the whole line. It will not be easier for the centre parties to write the following in their comments on the financial framework: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party and the Central Party believe that if the structure which is now adopted cannot be continued as provided, the Government must submit proposals for the necessary measures for the Grand Duchy.’ This represents a significant challenge, to put it mildly, and is the main reason why we have not found the basis for entering into a defence policy settlement well aware, too, that we have experience that the Centre and the Workers' Party are usually unable to rise so high under all the many priorities that come under the annual budgetary procedure. I would like to distance myself from the fact that the Prime Minister has allowed this ‘drive’. He has also shown greater activity by following closely in my meetings with the parliamentary leaders from week to week and from day to day, so here we have come just as far as it was possible to get. The lack of strategic direction of defence has, in my best opinion, been a major problem for many years. Top-heavy, inefficient and partly double-working structures in the management and command apparatus are an equally important explanation of the defence's problems as under-allocations. I am pleased with the arrangement in the Committee's remarks here, although the Government does not seem to have a majority for so-called integrated solution. Through major reorganisation measures, the co-location of the head of defence staff with the department and significant slimming of the management apparatus, a far-reaching impact can be achieved. Determining the Government's decision to recommend the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Agency to Yåttå, they share a co-location between the Armed Forces Joint Operational Headquarters and the NATO sub-regional headquarters will provide. It provides significant synergies when Norwegian officers operate on a daily basis in a wide-ranging international collaborative environment. It gives them good insight into how NATO's military organization works, so that they are better able to safeguard Norwegian interests in the NATO system. By adding the Joint Operational Headquarters to Yåttå, we also make it possible for the NATO headquarters there to function as a real headquarters in crisis or war, because at very short notice it could be reinforced by staff from the Joint Operational Headquarters. It's these points, where the competence benefit of co-location is the most important thing, which makes us choose Yahtå. It's not, as many claim, the fear that NATO will withdraw. The heaviest argument for laying the headquarters of Retan is the potential national challenges in the northern regions. However, it takes into account the Government's recommendations by establishing an enlarged Reitox regional sub-command, which is to act as a national crisis management command focusing on our specific challenges in the northern regions and as a possible advanced command space for the Joint Operational Headquarters. Here I would like to convey to you all the statements that the head of defence has plans not to follow majority decisions in the Chamber. On the contrary, this is going to be a very vital body that is going to operate with all that Reitan has shown that they are good at operating, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1717	It was given strong expression from the very first moment, including from the Council of State, that there was a desire for a broad settlement. It is also stated in the proposition that a broad settlement is sought, and I note that the Council of State here believes that the Prime Minister has shown considerable activity. I guess that's possible. We don't know what he's doing up in his own office, but we haven't seen so much about this down here in Stortinget. My impression is that there has been very little interest in a settlement in the Workers' Party. Much more activity has been demonstrated and much more energy has been spent on emanating common positions with the Progress Party, even on location and individual decisions. I have noticed that the Council of State also here from the pulpit just emphasized the agreement with the right parties, with which one in the Labour Party is so concerned to frighten. I have to ask whether the Council of State is satisfied with the work that has been done to make a settlement, and whether he is satisfied with his own efforts in this way? The Council of State has left a great deal of uncertainty as to the economic consequences of the decisions that will be taken here later today. The proposal proposes to add NOK 112 billion over the four-year period. In the vote, the Workers' Party's representatives are in favour of an annual framework of NOK 28.667 billion, which equals NOK 114.7 billion. Then the Workers' Party's representatives put in a proposal of 114 billion, which is 700 million. too low in relation to what is in their own comment in the setting. Extra confusing is the signal from the Workers' Party when, according to NRK Text-TV, the Council of State Godal says that he will not promise to increase the appropriation by 6.6 pst. the following years. In the same Communication, the Council of State claims that the defence budget must be 29 billion kroner in order to maintain the new structure. This corresponds exactly to the amount spent by the centre parties, which is NOK 116 billion. Why, then, has the Labour Party submitted a proposal for a framework of NOK 114 billion? Can the Council of State now clarify: What are the economic consequences of the decisions that will be taken here later this evening?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1730	It is the Committee's fractions that have put in place the proposals that I see as a follow-up to the respective alternatives, where the Right and Advance Party have one view, the Centre parties have a different view and the Workers' Party has a third view. Something more mysterious is not that. So I have registered that what unites the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party is a more realistic view of what costs if it is to be real capacity. It's very easy to add both one, two and three brigades if we prestore material and rehearsal exercises a little bit, and say that we have them there. But there are brigades that die out if they are not continuously maintained through equipment, large intakes of protective persons and everything else. So there's a little bit of "lip service" out and goes into parts of this debate. It makes me think that we have to now, based on the preliminary input from the departments of the department and from the chief command of the defense, find out what is actually costing, given the assumptions that are to be taken into account. Then I have a very strong suspicion that the Right Party and the Advance Party are completely different from what an ascending brigade is, than what the centre parties are doing. At least we have to figure that out. I feel that, among other things, is this ambiguity that has made it difficult to achieve. I think the Storting has little sense that we're now going into the maths and the details. One has worn off one another in the committee, the state council and many others have been in full swing. We're not going to get there anymore. But in general, my impression is that the Defence Command generally underestimates the cost of things. They don't overestimate it. But the center is even lower. And the old chief, former Minister of Finance Restad, should have learned this from his former position: it is very rare that calculations last. When the Department – which is a little bit more careful – and the Defence Command says that that's what it costs, it's bold to say that we can do it as cheap as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1739	After allowing me to call for a very thorough work in the committee – because the proposition was deficient – we have had to base our policy on the security situation and an analysis of the tasks that the defence is going to do, we have now come to the structure that we think is the smallest country should have. In the Right, we want to base this on the time that comes and follow up. Now, if we get an estimate of what this structure costs, we'll follow it up. When there's an agreement, it's that one big thing can't commit another. If we were to get an agreement that is binding for the four years, it is the lot that has to become some to conclude a written, binding agreement for the rest of the period. What I think is the only defensive way forward is that when we get a decision, there's a price for it – it should have been ours, but maybe it'll be delayed – and then the parties have to come together and make an agreement and commit themselves to making the promises over the years that come, so that the defense can be responsible. Unfortunately, when it comes to decision-making in this area, we have solid experience that the implementation of our decisions is not always done with the necessary speed and precision. That's what we're renting out. I will now ask the Council of State to really see to it that the Storting decides today is followed up with great precision and speed. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State that, all along the way, he has the eye open for further rationalization of the defence structure and the peace process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1750	I thank you for the challenge and pushed behind. It is unnecessary, but nevertheless welcome. This is because everyone who has said that you have to put a lot of pressure on the conversion is right. I must remind you that there is therefore a significant change in the central management apparatus also through the steps taken by the majority and included in the proposition. It is the greatest transformation of the military management apparatus in recent times – and that is absolutely necessary. I have said from this pulpit before that when, as a fresh minister of defence, I discovered that the 10-12 billion SEK to fighter aircraft that we thought was in the drawer was not there, the defense had not only a major economic problem, but also a significant management problem when those kinds of surprises are coming up. It wasn't that my predecessor didn't start to understand it. She was sending a new investment profile to Stortinget. But that's still the problem in a nutshell. We can only solve that by strengthening the strategic leadership of Defence. So that's the purpose of the schemes that both the majority and the minority are behind. We believe that an integrated model had been best served, but, as I said in my post, a co-located model with strong slimming can also give the same results. So when it comes to defence policy conciliation, we launched two important initiatives. We said that we are joining and finding economic containment for an increase in the protection structure by 20,000, including an increase in the protective mass by 1000 per year. The center wasn't satisfied with it, but said, "That's good." Then we got rid of what was the top right priority number. 1, i.e. the MTBs, with full phase-in from 2003. I'm afraid – I'm saying fear, I hope it doesn't work this way – that the most real money in today's position is the 2 billion kroner that we've added on the basis of a commitment to implement the MTB Shield. But I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1763	This is getting interesting. It might also start to be constructive. Governments have always pointed to the need for a settlement. So it wasn't possible to establish anything like this in the committee, and it's quite right, as many people say, that this must necessarily be an agreement between the parties, if possible. And then it's important to know what we decide in the first place: here's a majority that builds up a new and larger structure than the Council of State and the Workers' Party originally agreed to. It accepts the Council of State. Then it is also important that funding is real, as the Council of State pointed out, and the Council of State has strongly stressed that he believes that the way in which the Workers' Party has been able to calculate, and the Right and Advance Party's way of counting, is somewhat more accurate than the intermediate parties have so far been able to show. If this is the case – the Council of State suggested that the price tag could increase by 1.3 to 2.4 billion, what you know – our contribution is: Once the Stortinget has made its decision on the future structure, we must get the Department to calculate this properly, and get it secured also by the Defence Forces, so that you do not miss what you have and make yourself impossible. Here's the will. The question is: will the Council of State now count on this as soon as possible, so that a proper basis can be found to enable the parties to come together and sign? And will the Council of State take such an initiative itself, as the responsibility of the Department, or will he bring the Workers' Party into such a process, with full weight and breadth? Because that's exactly what the Council of State says, it's real budgeting to help the defense out of the swamp. And if we don't get this done, that's a lot of failure. I feel that the Council of State has made a contribution. We've given our contribution to the solution, and we're eagerly waiting for the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1772	I have a feeling that the contribution the committee leader is now expecting is in the class NOK 1-2 billion, and it's not coming. It just doesn't come from here. We're going to base the decisions. But I've been very hurt to think that through the real budgetary discussions over the four-year period, we can raise a real war structure to the level that the Progress Party is in favour of. I understand that the Progress Party argues for what they argue for, because they have the money, while the Centre and the Workers' Party have usually not had that money! Of course, you can choose something in between and say that we should have a large war structure, but it should not be fully financed. We feel that there's a rather weak basis for a settlement, that we don't have that opportunity. On the other hand, if we had, through the contacts between the parliamentary leaders, arranged for an arrangement that we felt was economically sustainable and politically valuable, it would have been easier. Now I've hurt to see now how this is going to work. That is, of course, a pity, but I want to show that it is therefore a majority – apart from unanimity – for significant structural changes, for significant change. And then I assume that all parties take it very seriously when it comes to facilitating the follow-up of the financial framework even in the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1779	The government describes in St.prp. No 45 its analysis and assessment of the security policy situation and the current threat picture. I think this is a good analysis, among other things. It is obvious that there are in the north you risk episodes related to our marine areas. There may be challenges to defence in relation to unexplained border issues in the grey zone, we may experience incidents in the protection zone around Svalbard, and we may experience incidents related to environmental challenges, in relation to fishing resources, and to the oil and gas resources we have. My first question will therefore be: how can the Minister of Defence defend his proposal for as severe a reduction in maritime defence as is found in St. prp? No 45, where only 20 vessels were supposed to continue? What presence in the most vulnerable areas could this give? So I have noticed that the Council of State went heavily to attack the centre parties, while he was most concerned about pointing to the consensus with the parties that are normally the main challengers, namely the Right and the Advance Party. It's striking in itself. I also noticed that the Council of State thought that the structure that will now be adopted would go beyond the Government's proposed framework of NOK 28 billion per year. years with from 1.3 billion to something over 2 billion – that is from 29.3 billion kroner to well 30 billion dollars a year. It is striking then that the Labour Party – I assume in consultation with the Minister of Defence – is proposing a planning framework for the next four years of only DKK 114 billion, i.e. DKK 28.5 billion per year. Is the Minister of Defense so pessimistic in view of the autumn elections that he already disregards the fact that the Workers' Party can also be in government in the next period? It is already clear which structure will be adopted when the Stortinget votes later this evening. Why, then, does the Labour Party not propose a planning framework that will cover the costs that the future structure will entail?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1790	I refer you to previous answers. We're probably not sure what the planning framework we're really talking about, because it depends very much on what assumptions the center and the right and the Progress Party are making. And it's well possible to define a brigade both for $1 billion and for $200-300 million. kr. These things have to find their clarification through the further process. Then, of course, the fraction has had contact with me regarding the grant to the framework. This is therefore due to a desire that we should be sure that we have room for the phase-in of MTBs of the Skjold class from 2003, which we see as an important issue, also in view of the issues mentioned by the representative Restad. I believe that the MTB structure of the central parties is initially a weaker arrangement than ours, with a phase-in from 2005 – and then you should even hold it up against what happened to the cost development of the frigates. It was a little bit of a draw game, really. I can't see that the reality of the Nordic mark is so very impressive beyond this, if you look at the structure of the centre parties. So it's not like we're taking from North Norway a joint operating headquarters that they now have. They will operate with what they do, with somewhat reduced staffing, and be fully equipped for the operation of the national crisis management command of the kind we have in the north, which has worked so well until now. So I'd say counting the number of ships in a structure is obviously popular, but not very real. It is fully possible to supply the Marine Defense 50 new small, fine vessels – then we have 50 new vessels. But what value do they have in a war situation? That's what's central. And that's where I think we're getting more out of looking at the fighting capabilities of the ships than keeping old naval vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1803	In the change of line with the Center Party earlier, it appeared as part of an argument that there should be a message that would be decisive in relation to the choice of Retan or Yåttå, but that this letter was graduated, and that one could not tell about its contents. My first question, therefore, is whether there is a letter that parts of the Storting are not told about, which is decisive for an argument in relation to location. Then I want to challenge the Council of State Godal on the duty of protection. I think it's very positive that a multiple, all minus the Progress Party, goes in to evaluate a third category of protection obligation. Yesterday we had a difficult debate about higher education – getting more efficiency in education, getting people out of the systems and the system faster so that one gets more in a short time. Does the Council of State agree that one must go more into that matter in relation to the Defence also, even if he has done so in the assessments prior to this? Should he not now go into the future of this debate and see if he cannot improve and modernise the security training that one has today, and cut short in time? Finally, there will be a lot of debate about larger investments, about structures, about new bridesmaids that are weak, etc., and there will be lots of baggy bags. But I think there is very little debate about future challenges that go, for example. on data assabotage. SV has a proposal on this for further focus on that problem. My question to the government council is: Does the government think that one has the necessary focus on the problem of sabotage on computer networks, when one knows what consequences sabotage may have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1812	The regulatory time of the morning meeting is now at hand. The President proposes that we continue this morning's meeting until this change of lines is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1815	It is true that the letter from the head of defence to the Ministry of Defence has been graduated, but the content of the argument is known through the proposition, and it is also known to the members of the committee, so it has no influence on the setting beyond what has been agreed upon, and the parties have, as they know, chosen different positions after reading that letter. But it's pages of the letter that make it safe. That means that those who are not on the committee have not seen it. As far as the duty of protection is concerned, I agree that this is a major and central theme, which many have touched on in this morning's meeting. There's a lot to say about it. Obviously, it's fundamentally unfair that we have 40-50-55 pst. which does not implement the protection obligation. It's equally unfair whether it's 50 or 45 pst. implementing – equally unfair. That's why we find reason to rejoice that a majority says that now we're looking at a third category of service that can help correct this injustice. So I agree that it's a big point in itself to keep as many as possible in Defense through the military protection obligation. But we can't leave a percentage of those under protection – 50 pst., which is unfair, also – governing the defence structure itself. After all, the need for defence is the starting point for both the number of officers and the number of persons subject to protection. But I agree that we will do what we can to keep it as high as possible. It may be that at the end of this four-year period, we have a basis for increasing the structure again, and then, of course, more people are serving the duty of protection, but that is because the defence needs it. What do we do on the day of world peace? Should the centre parties and the SV then continue to pay great attention to the duty of protection? I assume we're done with it. It's a theoretical issue so far, unfortunately. But in other words, we have to view this in the light of the defence needs and not assume that this should be a fixed percentage no matter what happens around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13.ana.ud2535e1826	That's the line change. We're taking a break in Stortingen's negotiations and we're going to have a new meeting at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
