ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e31	The requested alternate of the State of Uppland, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e42	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e45	On behalf of the representatives of Ågot Valle, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I will present proposals on organic farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e50	The representative Annelise Höegh will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e53	On behalf of Børge Brende and myself, I would like to make proposals on non-discrimination between private and public X-ray institutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e68	The size decided at the December budgetary procedure to reduce petrol taxes by 50 cents from 1 January 2001. Furthermore, Stortinget adopted a further reduction in petrol taxes by 32 cents applicable from 1 July 2001. Although the Progress Party considers this reduction to be far too small, it is a small step in the right direction. If one goes back to the proposal from the Government and sees why the Government proposed a reduction in the petrol tax, it is quick to see that this is due to the fact that the crude oil price pushed the pump price on petrol so high that this was unacceptable even for the Government. I would like to quote from page 71 under section 3.5.7 Fee on petrol in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001, Tax, tax and customs decisions, where it states: ‘The increase in crude oil prices has led to higher prices of petrol in real terms since 1951. In addition, the tax on petrol in Norway is higher than in our neighbouring countries and can therefore contribute to increased trade leakage. In order to reduce the trade leakage and the load on those who depend on using the car, the Government proposes to reduce the fuel tax by 50 cents per cent. litre nominal from 1 January 2001. ...In the context of the VAT reform of 1 July 2001, it is proposed that the petrol tax should be reduced by a further 32 øre per. litre.’» Before the tax reduction on petrol on 31 December 2000, the indicative pump price for petrol was 9,88 kroner. Per. On 8 February 2001, after the tax reduction had entered into force and had been effective for a while, the indicative pump price was DKK 9.89, i.e. 1 ear higher than before the end of the year. And then my question is whether the intention behind the Government's proposal and the Stortinge's decision on a lower pump price for petrol is fulfilled. My answer is a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. It is important to realise that the background to the price increase is not that Norwegian oil companies are trying to take extra profits in the context of the tax reduction, but price jumps on the international petrol market in Rotterdam. The problem of excessive pump prices is here, and the only reasonable and logical conclusion will be to speed up the already agreed reduction from 1 July to 1 March. Although this will only partly help with the sky-high gas prices, it's a bit on the way. I assume that the budget-mates, on the basis of the fact that the pain threshold for petrol prices is established by the December Decision, will come back with proposals for further reductions and system changes in relation to the revised national budget. The permanent solution to the problem we are facing is to be read in Document No. 8:39 for 1999-2000 by the Party of Progress. III of the proposal reads: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a flexible petrol tax system, so that the tax goes down when the oil price rises and vice versa, so that the selling price does not change as a result of changes in the oil price.’ This shows, on the basis of the intention of this proposal, that we would be able to solve the economic costs facing the normal Norwegian driver today, at one of the world's highest petrol prices. Do not let this good party proposal suffer the same fate as, among other things, it does. the proposal to fund the price of patients in hospitals and to make the Norwegian people suffer unnecessarily for 10-15 years as the political majority matures. It is reasonably clear that it is those who have the least in society, the unemployed, the low pay, the minimum pensioners, etc., who are hit hardest by high petrol prices. For rich people, high petrol prices mean less. As studies have shown, those with the highest income are located in and around agglomerations in central areas. Once again, it means that those with the lowest income live in scattered rural areas with poorly developed collective services, which are hit hardest by high petrol prices. I assume that this has not been the goal of the Workers' Party, which likes to call itself the party of the weak in society. I assume that it has not been the goal of the Central Party, which believes it has a monopoly on representing the scattered rural areas of the country. If any of these parties mean anything to what they claim in celebrations, then the time has come to show it by action. Now these parties have the opportunity to approach the goal they themselves adopted in December, and the goal they claim to have, namely to be a champion of the weakest in society and those who live so that they depend on using a passenger car. Even though a reduction of 32 centimeters from March 1st is just to count as a drop in the ocean, it's a start and a completely necessary drop. The Party of Progress shall ensure that the Storting will in future be given the opportunity to vote for a new petrol and diesel charging system that provides stable pump prices. But above all, the Advance Party must ensure that proposals are made for much lower petrol and diesel prices of around DKK 6-7 per year. liters. For stable petrol and diesel prices are not enough; they must be stablely low petrol and diesel prices. I hope that the majority will continue to support the idea of a lower pump price for petrol and vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to speed up the already adopted reductions in the petrol tax from 1 July to 1 March, which we have put forward. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e98	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e101	It is very nice today, and I almost have to point out, after the article to Kenneth Svendsen, that we are doing very well in this country – also materially. The vast majority of people have seen very well with the eyes of other countries. If we go to the specific matter, as most people do, I have accepted that a so-called market, supply and demand, governs the pricing of most goods and services. However, in many cases it can also be noted that strong forces are able to manipulate price rises to achieve great profits. A number of oil market actors are included in this. In recent years we have had extreme price fluctuations on oil. If we go back two years, we recorded oil prices all the way down to $10. We've been all the way up to $35, and we've had price fluctuations in Norwegian money only over short periods of time on the hundreds bill. So there are incredible fluctuations in the market that Kenneth Svendsen here is moving into with his solution. The average price level has increased considerably. In the last budgetary procedure, the size found it necessary to reduce the country’s revenue from diesel and petrol sales in order to compensate for some of the added profits achieved by oil market operators, while making the necessary adjustments to neighbouring countries. The revenue and expenditure of the State budget shall be fixed for one year at a time and shall be related to each other. Changes in budgetary assumptions should be avoided for many reasons. In particular, when the fluctuations in market prices are one way up, they are to be compensated by immediate reductions in the income of the country, as we now see examples in Document No. 8:56 on petrol prices. What would result from this type of behaviour in relation to the pricing of the market can only be referred to by the seller as: very convenient. I believe, for my part, that there is only one concept that is adequate for the proposal we now have on the table: very populist. The Labour Party Group will vote against the proposal, and I think more are.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e112	The principle requested by the proposers is now being considered, namely that charges should counteract market fluctuations, was also assessed in the examination of Document No. 8:39 for 1999-2000. After the autumn budget decision, the tax reduction on petrol will be around 1 July this year. 1,20 kroner compared to 2000. This means that the fees are down to almost the same level as in Sweden, and lower than for example. in Germany, France and the Netherlands. This is a monthly reduction in the fee. There was a majority for this tax reduction in the autumn budgetary procedure, and this was also part of the financial soundness of the budget. The tax reduction is on track. I therefore see no reason to support the progress that has already been made, with a few months or so. The Christian People's Party will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e119	Even with the cautious reduction of the petrol tax that Stortinget decided last autumn, it is a fact that the taxes on petrol are higher in Norway than in our neighbouring country. The size has decided that the petrol charge will be reduced by 50 cents from 1 January and that it will be reduced by a further 32 cents from 1 July. The proposers point out that developments in the international petrol market are counteracting the effect of the tax cut on pump prices and therefore propose to accelerate the second stage of the tax reduction. The proposers also refer to the Leading Party's petrol charging model, where the fee is to be regulated continuously after oil price developments, so that pump prices are kept constant. I would like to point out that the Right in the examination of the 2001 budget proposed that the entire tax reduction should take place from 1 January. Supporting an acceleration of the tax reduction will therefore be in line with our alternative budget. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Right has taken a distance, and takes a distance, from the Advance Party's model for a constant selling price for petrol. Such a model is very far from market economy thinking, where supply and demand determine prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e126	Just a few brief comments on SV's view of this. But first a few words to the representative Burnde, who is now obviously fighting with the Advance Party on right-wing populism. The fact that a party which generally highlights economic virtue, long-term thinking and, above all, predictability, jumps on the kind of populist proposal for a reduction in fees in the middle of a session, I believe that ordinary conservatives in the Right Group will seem quite perceptive. But leave it alone – it's going to be Right's problem. SV does not support this tax reduction and has not done so either. This means that we have not been in favour of reducing fuel taxes in general, and the reason for this is simply that we do not have, unlike what many here say, a very high fuel price in Norway. On the contrary, if one compares it with the general salary level, which is the only relevant comparable size, Norway is actually among the countries with the lowest petrol prices in Europe. This is also because we have a high salary level compared to most countries. Another factor that prevents SV from responding to this is that this tax reduction has resulted in a significant loss of revenue for the country. This has resulted in greater greenhouse gas emissions than we would otherwise have. In January there was a record sale of petrol and fuel in Norway. There has never been so much fuel sold in one month, which of course also means that emissions are increasing. That means you can't stick your head in the sand and pretend that climate problems aren't a real threat. Fuel is actually one of the main causes of global warming. Of course, it's a burden on many people that you have a high price for fuel, and at the same time you have no alternative. That's the only way you can actually get the emissions down, so SV goes against this proposal from the Progress Party. Nor have we previously supported the tax reduction adopted by the majority of the population in the treatment of the ordinary state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e140	I have to say I'm at the tip of my ears when Øystein Djupedal mentions the word "populism," because that's what he's up to. But he's going to make it look like right-wing populist, because if we're also voting for something that we were followers of in our alternative budget today, it's amazing. There is no one in the Right Group who has problems voting for a reduction of over NOK 1 in terms of the petrol tax. That is what we have been proposing in the autumn, and we now accept that as well. We have not taken the initiative to promote a proposal now in Stortinget on a tax reduction. But once the proposal is on the table, it's clear that we're voting for something we're followers of. That SV wants people to pay as much as possible for petrol, so that families with children get worse, is predictable. That SV wants individuals to keep less of what they earn, that the state should take the money and spend it on what SV thinks is important, which is not necessarily consistent with what people themselves want with their private economy is predictable. From the Right side, we do not want to have a petrol tax in Norway that is not in line with what you have in our neighbouring country. And it is that with the reduction that the Right vote for today, the Norwegian petrol tax is still higher than in other Nordic countries. What I would like to stress is that we reject the proposal of the Progress Party on a constant petrol price, that is. a price of petrol to be equal, irrespective of international oil price developments. It may be a proposal for which SV has more sense, a breach of market economy principles of supply and demand. It is true that the SV and the Advance Party can find each other at a distance from the market economy and sound economic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e149	It was a violent commitment from the representative Burne so early in the debate! I think his post only confirms one thing: this is an unprofessional, right-wing populist proposal that the Right shouldn't have supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e154	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e158	Some representatives in this room are reasonably predictable – especially in terms of fiscal policy positions in this country. Both the representative Dalheim and the representative Djupedal are joining this line – I kept saying – to a great extent, and it does not surprise me at all. I think it's important to note that the gas price is now actually above what the government decided to be the pain limit. Then it's strange that the proposal here doesn't seem to have a majority today. This proposal is being promoted precisely in the interests of the districts of this country, in the interests of business, in the interests of the population and the ability of people to drive their cars to and from work and to make the most of their income as they wish, and not as the State necessarily wants, even though it is clearly the Labour Party's intention. I would like to remind you that in the case of the petrol price – which has now reached the level at which it was at – the state actually takes its share of it, because there is VAT on petrol. This proposal, therefore, does not pose a major threat to the income of the country, but goes beyond giving back something to the Norwegian population, so that it is possible to manage and use part of its income in a better way than the country wants to add to it. I also dare to remember that the annual tax on the car is high in Norway. In these days we have to pay the annual fee, where the state collects significant revenues. Car charges, not least, tolls and ferry charges, inter alia: in the districts, the Norwegian population is increasing the cost of car rental. The introduction of tax reduction is already giving a handshake to the Norwegian population, so that you get a normal price of petrol — and thus a lower price of petrol — and so that you can use your own income in a better and more sensible way, and so let the population rather than the state always stand back as a winner. And it is strange that when a proposal is made in this Chamber to benefit the Norwegian population, then it is populism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e171	The representative Dalheim said it so well up here: they set the budget for one year at a time, and it's going to be linked. But what have we now seen, after the budget has been fixed? Then it has not been so much connected, then we have got one right after the other. We've got the cyclical tax, but all of a sudden we can go back on it, and we've got the depreciation rates for agriculture, and we could just go back on them. Then it was not a matter of the budget being linked. The representative Dalheim takes the word ‘populism’ in his mouth when he talks about the Progress Party. But who are the figures of all the motor blades and car blades? Well, it's Dalheim: Down with taxes, car use is too expensive, petrol is too expensive – everything is too expensive. When, for once, the representative Dalheim has a chance to do something with all these fees, he can get a chance to do it today, he has a good chance of doing it now. And I just want to remind the representative of Dalheim that the state takes in 40 billion kroner a year – he knows that well – and what is used for both operation, maintenance and investment in roads amounts to 10 billion kroner. This imbalance is a huge gap. We can actually do two things. We can set aside more money for the operation and maintenance of our roads, and we can build up more roads. I would like to refer to the national transport plan, which we have recently dealt with here in the Chamber, where we would increase investment to roads and maintenance by approx. $4.5 billion a year. There was too much for this room, and there was too much for the representative Dalheim. Even with this little increase, it's a long way to go to the 40 billion -- really long. So we can go along with this proposal and further reduce the fee on petrol a little bit. We're not even asking for an increase in it, we're just asking to speed up the tax reduction for a few months, and that won't mean so much money in the budget. But that will mean a good deal for those who live on the outskirts, where an acceleration of this fee reduction will mean quite a lot. – And it’s a paradox that those who talk loudest about keeping the edges, they have already left the hall and are obviously not interested in any conservation of edges and relief for those who live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e185	It's basically to correct a manifest misunderstanding, just so it's not going to attach any looseness to my behavior in relation to the state's income. I just want to make it clear that when I have later expressed my opinion in relation to car charges and a conversion of them, I have probably had what someone might define as a bit radical attitudes, but I am at the bottom of it that the state's revenues should be maintained. For example, when it comes to car use, which in itself is a good way to get money into the treasury, I am very concerned that you should try to get to a system where you can do something cheaper to buy a car, but that the total cost of car maintenance in our country should be up to the level that is today. With regard to the other matters that the representative raised here related to adjustments, I would just like to stress that the adjustments made, not only can be made one way, they must also be adjusted in relation to the country's income on other items. So here's the order!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e194	I'm glad of what Dalheim said now, that he wants to make it cheaper to buy a car. I'm actually going to take that with me in the next budget round. Then we will see if the representative Dalheim is so eager to reduce the fees, because you have to reduce the fees if it is to be cheaper to buy a car. Dalheim said that the state's revenues should be the same. This means that one has to increase the taxes on the operation of a car, and then the petrol price will increase further with the representative Dalheim. But it will be cheaper to buy a car – it will be nice to follow on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e199	President - a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e206	Sir. Dalheim gets the word for something that is believed to be a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e209	This with fees and cars and that is very serious stuff, and it affects a lot of people. And because there should be no laxity in such a context, the Storting has, in the context of the 2001 budget, taken a concrete decision that all the parties agreed on, that the car charges should be addressed during 2003. This means that we will probably see in the 2004 budget the outlines of new car charging systems. So the quick turn for reductions to next year I must unfortunately close the door for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e214	Then the door is also closed for further – Mr. Burned, there's a line on Mr. Nistad? In that case, sir. Burn the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e217	It was an interesting dialogue that took place between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party on the car fee. I actually didn't think I was going to get into the situation that I had to sort out a little bit in relation to the Progress Party and the car tax, but I think the representative Nistad actually hurt to be a little optimistic as he was glad that the representative Dalheim would do something about the car charges – it would be cheaper to buy a car. We've actually heard that for 20 years without that happening. In fact, something has happened: it has become more expensive to buy a car. So this lesson we've heard before. I see no reason that Nistad should be too optimistic, even if it is a nice day. It helps little when a car is as expensive as it is in Norway – too expensive!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e222	The President is actually in the mood for the angle of the conversation that is now going on, but gives the floor to Mr. Nistad, if there was a challenge in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e226	I don't know if it was a challenge for me. It was more of a challenge for the representatives of Dalheim and the Workers' Party. I guess that's where he should have put that line. I am very pleased that Børge Burnde is now putting further focus and thumb screw on the Workers' Party, because the representative Dalheim told us that he would reduce the car charges. Then he came up here afterwards and said that they should look at this, and maybe it will be one time in 2004. Mr. Brende says he has heard this for 20 years. Yes, we're going to have a choice for the autumn, and then we're just going to remind the voters that the Workers' Party has been saying this for 20 years. That was probably what Burnde would do, and I'm grateful for that, because then we can stand together and tell the voters that this has been said by the Workers' Party for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e233	I am almost sorry, but because this is being written down, and since it is said a bit bombastic that the car charges have only gone up, I just want to point out that in 1996, with a working party government, the car charges went down by 15-16-17 pst. Some adjustments were made afterwards, which made them go the other way to some extent, but a net reduction was retained. So there are some nuances here, but I would like to make it clear that it is not right that the car charges just go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e238	The president just wants to say that we live in a subdued country!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e241	The President says that we live in a subdued country, and in austerity, the proposals and budgets presented by the Workers' Party must be, because now the representative Dalheim says that the car charges have fallen by 17 pst. I'm really wondering where the 17 pst. has passed. I have not seen anything for them when I purchased a car. After reading some newspaper, the representative Dalheim may be sleeping well and dreaming that the car charges will go down, and then in an interview the next day he says that the car charges will be lowered. Now you have the chance here in the hall today to say what you want to do, and then we'll see how it goes when the reconciliation comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e246	The President makes it clear that all speech should be directed through the President. Then the President will be pleased to record the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e251	Norway is one of the world’s most expensive countries in terms of petrol taxes, and it seems that there are miles between rural settlement intentions, many of which are so concerned about, tourism spending, lower freight costs and sky-high petrol prices. The proposed price reductions are just a drop in the sea, they mean nothing to the usual driver, and they have no significance for our transport charges or districts. I'm sure it'll have to be done more vigorously. I want to show that it is accepted approx. 40 billion kroner from car and motorism, and just about 10 billion kroner come back in terms of better roads or road safety. The car has become a solid dairy cow that is extra taxed by sky-high taxes, which comes at the top of the high taxes and charges we have here in the country. In addition to the charges that come from the car, which do not go to road maintenance, road construction or safety, a system has also been introduced that our roads are increasingly being built using tolls. The Progress Party believes that enough is enough, and that it is now time to take seriously that we live in a country where most people depend on the car in terms of the need for a family to act, get to work and transport family members to kindergarten or leisure activities. If the other parties consider that housing in the districts, competition in goods production relative to the rest of the world and tourism is important, a lower petrol price is the best way to achieve this. The car charges also lead to our having an old, polluting and less traffic-proof car park in this country than we could have had, and it is soon to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e266	It's nice to meet you today, and that's enough for Erik Dalheim and I to come to an agreement. It is probably also what has made the representative Nistad very optimistic today. Dalheim talked about right-wing populism. If populism is caring about those in society that have the least, yes, then I hope there are more populists coming into this room. The Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party have been concerned that children for the poor are not given the opportunity to participate in games, music and cultural experiences with other children – that they have to sit at home. Then it should say into the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and SV, and perhaps in the Center Party in particular, that there are some poor children living in District Norway as well. These include: This happens when parents cannot afford to transport their children to play shows, cultural experiences and play with other children – they have to sit at home. These include: the sky-high petrol charges that make some parents unable to afford to buy petrol to carry their children there. It should take those batches inwards. But if it's populism to help the weak in society, yes, then I'd rather be populist than sit on my high horse and ridicule these problems. I am reasonably convinced that the majority does not take up the objective they themselves adopted in the context of the budget. It's just to regret that the majority doesn't. Then Børge Burnde from the Right was up here on the pulpit and talked about the fact that the Progress Party wants to end the competition. That the right does not understand how it works, there is nothing to do with it. Today most companies buy crude oil on the same market at the same prices. Nevertheless, there is, of course, full competition between gas stations and between operators in Norway, and we want that to continue, of course. We don't want constant equal prices. It would not, of course, be possible to have such a system as the Progress Party has proposed. What we're going to get is lower prices. But we're going to have competition between the companies, and then we're going to get different prices between the gas stations and the companies -- that's what competition is all about. The point of the Progress Party, which the Right should take inwards – they have repeatedly voted against when the Progress Party has proposed lower petrol charges – is that there is a low petrol price that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e291	I'm going to be pretty short. Of course, it is important that the decision-making process is followed up. The Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors then also stipulate that the Government is obliged to submit an annual notification. This shall include both a reference to the so-called request decisions and to the fate of private proposals submitted to the Government for examination and opinion, the so-called investigative decisions. When I take the floor, it's just to remind you that the Storting, as an aid to the Government in this follow-up work, has established a separate decision register. This will also in many ways improve the ability of the large-scale representatives to find out for themselves what follow-up their own proposals have been received in each department. It will be very time-consuming for the Committee of Inquiry and Constitution to go through all the various request and investigation decisions alone. It was therefore decided at the meeting of the Committee on 22 January this year to forward the notification to the other 11 Scientific Committees in Stortinget, in order to ask them to review the follow-up to the various request and investigation decisions mentioned in the Government’s communication. In addition, the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee consider that the request and investigation decisions referred to in the annual communications should always be submitted to the Scientific Committees for an opinion, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. I also refer to the Committee’s clarification that ‘if, in the first communication following a decision, it is stated that the government will subsequently follow up the decision, the next communication must specify this’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e316	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-06.ana.ud664e323	The proposal in Document No. 8:56 is taken up for feeding. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the decision of the Storting of 28 November 2000 on the levying of motor vehicles – V. Fee on petrol for the 2001 budget period – to be amended as follows: the first sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by the following: From 1 March 2001, the first subparagraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following:... »
