ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e44	The representatives of Aud Blattmann, Terje Johansen, Anita Apelthun Seele, Tomas Norvoll, Lars Rise, Annelise Höegh and Jan Simonsen, who have been authorized by us, once again have their seat. The following called alternates have taken their seat: For the County of Buskerud: Gerd Johnsen For Hedmark County: Magnhild Byseth Olrud
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e81	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e86	I suggest Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e91	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. . Other proposals are not in line, and Kenneth Svendsen is in agreement with the election of the chairman of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e99	The representative, Mr Børge Burnde, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e102	On behalf of the representative Jan Petersen and myself, I propose to exempt training studios from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e108	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1–4 is treated under one – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e149	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be opportunities for the replacement of lines of up to 3 lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e160	Today, the size deals with a total of four Document Nos. Eight proposals on predatory game. The proposals have different approaches and therefore also differing conclusions in key areas of forest management. It has been important for the rapporteur to prepare these matters on the basis of some key pillars. It has been an objective to ensure both long-term and short-term action within the framework of already defined policy guidelines in this area, as stated by the Stortinget in its treatment of the 1997 report of wild game, namely the preservation of viable strains of the four major predators in Norway, while taking into account the continued active off-shore industries. Since then, the size has confirmed these objectives on different occasions. Secondly, it has been important, from the point of view of the rapporteur, to get rid of all those who are affected by predatory policies in various ways, in the preparations for what is being dealt with by the Stortinget today. These include protection interests, nutritionists, policies and those who know the fear and uncertainty of the cold water of the presence of predators. The level of conflict in predatory game policy is high and, as the Committee points out, it has been growing in recent years. This may be primarily due to the fact that the population of predators has increased for all species, especially in the case of wolves. There is a common understanding in the Committee that no one has benefited from the fact that the high level of conflict persists over time and is likely to increase further if no action is taken to mitigate it. The attitudes on today’s maps are therefore an expression of the willingness to find approaches that can help to reduce conflicts, although everyone understands that there will also be conflicts in this area in the future, and that not all feel that their primary positions are fully respected. The Committee has addressed some of the most prominent problems in the management of our predators and stresses the importance of long-termity and predictability in administration, not least in the interests of the outreach industries. It is therefore proposed to draw up a new roll-out notice on predatory wildlife policy, such as: should focus on a review of stock development and experience gained with this, stock development forecasts, how to better address local involvement in management and, finally, a review of the compensation mechanisms in the event of the loss of bofe and tamrein as a result of predators. To this end, the Committee endorses the proposal in Document No. 8:18 for 2000–2001 on a new wholesale notification and its submission by the end of 2003. As regards the proposal for the general closure of the core areas for predators, as set out in Document No. 8:7 for 2000–01, the majority of thecommittee considers it natural to refer it to a new notification. The use of nuclear sites has been an important instrument to ensure the strict protection of predators during the construction of viable populations. A thorough evaluation of the experience with core areas has so far not been carried out on a general basis, and it is therefore natural that this issue be highlighted and evaluated as part of the overall review of the predatory game policy represented by a new wholesale message. On the other hand, the Committee is aware that there is an evaluation of the core areas of your territory in South Norway. The Committee is also aware that experience is not very good and therefore opens up the possibility of early termination of this core area, provided that the outcome of the evaluation confirms this. The planned wolf management plan has been central to the predatory debate recently. In Document No: 8:8 it is therefore proposed that this be brought before the Grand Duchy for treatment. While the number of committees can understand such a wish, the majority view is at the same time that the definition of such plans is a management issue that should not be clarified by the Stortinget. It is important not to create any ambiguity about the responsibilities between the administration of the Government and the Stortinget, while the majority cannot see that the Stortinget has the necessary competence to draw the geographical boundaries of such a management plan on a professional basis. However, the majority make certain adjustments for further work on the plan, including the establishment of geographical areas to minimise conflicts. It's urgent to have a management plan for wolves. This must be seen in the context of the plans of the county councils, which will be available by the end of 2001. The majority of the Committee calls for an impact assessment of the management plan to be drawn up, but cannot join in the proposal that it be available in advance. This would significantly delay the process, including: As a result, the wolf would still have strict protection throughout the country. In combination with it and a rapidly growing wolf population, a postponement could result in stock development being out of control, with the administrative problems that this necessarily must have. The majority focus on the need to further step up the measures already in place to mitigate short-term conflicts. This refers in particular to stocking conditions, faster collection of pests outside core areas where breeding permits have been granted, and specific measures for the reindeer industry, which are more strongly affected by predators than foreseen. The human costs of the presence of predators are also emphasised by the Committee. Fear and loss of quality of life are increasingly highlighted, particularly from densely populated areas where wolves are particularly established. Recognizing that these feelings cannot be argued out, and that for some people they are really real problems, the Committee points out the need to take this side of the predatory debate too seriously. The Government is therefore called upon to take measures that can help to reduce fear and create understanding among those affected, so that their expressed concerns are taken seriously also by the political powers. At the same time, the majority expresses the need to set up the management plans in the case of wolves in such a way as to facilitate flexibility and burden-sharing between those parts of the country that become relevant administrative areas. As regards Document No: 8:92 for 1999-2000, I refer you to the committee's recommendation. What I have said so far in my article covers in all material terms the intentions of this document. The number of committees is without prejudice to the specific plans for the withdrawal of two wolf families in the Baltic Valley. For my own part, however, I would like to express that the disposal of predators must be an administrative matter and not determined by the Stortinget. I take it for granted that the administration does not take killing decisions that threaten the viability of wolves in Norway, or that can help raise doubts about the fulfilment of our international obligations. It is, after great international pressure and attention, important to stress that it is our responsibility to manage our own predators, including wolves. As long as Norway carries out its international obligations, our administrative policy cannot and should not be governed from abroad. I therefore trust that the Government will follow up the management of the wolf population in line with this. The overall assessment, from the point of view of the rapporteur, is that the four Documents No. The 8 proposals under consideration today point to a balanced predatory policy aimed at reducing the level of conflict in the short and long term. An overall committee agrees with this overall objective without doubt that the main lines will remain firm. With this, I will address the majority proposals in the Committee's votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e194	How many times has the Storting debated predators since the report of predators was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring of 1997, I have lost count. The innumerable accumulation debates reflect the strong focus and the major conflicts that result in predators in Norwegian nature. The Labour Party believes that we have a political responsibility to mitigate the conflict and reduce the losses of farmers and reindeer owners, but we also have a political responsibility to take care of our natural heritage and to ensure that these endangered species do not disappear from Norwegian fauna. We have to admit that as long as predators exist in Norwegian nature, sheep and reindeer will be killed. We're never going to get down to a level of damage equal to zero. But the extent of the damage we have today, not least related to you, we cannot accept. In the setting for Document No. 8:92, which we are discussing here today, the majority of the Committee points out that the measures taken after 1997 have not worked well enough and that new and more measures need to be followed up: The stock records need to be strengthened and a national surveillance programme for predators must be launched. Action on prevention needs to be stepped up and a pilot project on prevention and research-based work needs to be launched based on experience from similar problem areas in other countries. Measures must be taken to ensure the effective extraction of predators outside the nuclear areas and pests in which the breeding permit has been granted. In the context of the 1997 review of the reporting of predators, new models were adopted for the management of herds and ungulates, the replacement schemes improved, and a state hunting corps was established — this in addition to the new prevention measures taken. The intention at the time was that these projects should be evaluated after a time. The working party believes this is most natural to do through a new staging message. We therefore support Document No. 8:18 by the representatives of Gabrielsen, Hernæs and Sanner on a new notification by 2003. In that communication, we should have a full review of predatory policies. But we must clearly maintain the goal of having viable populations of all four major predators in Norway. A large majority in Stortinget rejects Document No. 8:8 from the representative John Dale that the management plan for the wolf should be examined in Stortinget. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the SV and the Left believe this is a matter of an administrative nature that falls within the responsibility of the Government. The size cannot deal in detail with the case and determine which municipalities are to be within and which are to be outside the administrative area. What the Storting can do is add some overall leadership for the Government's further handling of the matter. This makes the Storting in today's decision. The majority believe that the establishment of wolf groups in large geographical areas makes control of the population difficult, and that the damage to the buffalo will be much greater. It is therefore an important point to put the management area outside the sheepfolding areas. At the same time, the area must be so large that over time burden-sharing between the different areas of management can take place. Man's relationship with the wolf has always been marked by fear. We must take this fear seriously. However, the Committee considers that this should not be a decisive administrative criterion. Nevertheless, there has to be a stronger focus on these problems, which make everyday life difficult for some people. At the same time, we must not forget that Norway is not in a unique situation in Europe with regard to wolves. Spain has over 1,700 wolves, Poland has 850 and Italy has 300. People's fear of wolves in these countries is small, and they also have no experience to suggest that they should have been afraid. The wolf belongs in Norwegian nature, and therefore we have to learn to live with the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e225	In my view, the predatory policy adopted in the course of the spring of 1997 has had adverse consequences in the form of large and growing conflicts between predators and sheep and domestic animals. Today's predatory management is very conflicty, and in my view, something should be done quickly by the authorities to reduce the level of conflict. Animal husbandry is of great importance in feeding the districts. An increasing stock of predators has resulted in large parts of the land areas previously used for grazing areas not being used for this purpose today because of the herds of predators. If pastures in the most predatory areas are to be used for grazing, it requires continuous guessing in order to avoid excessive losses of animals. Large and sometimes unwieldy pastures result in such a mode of operation becoming both costly and unprofitable for the owners. In some areas, predatory problems are so great that the many losses of animals have a significant economic impact on owners, and thus on the communities affected. Great losses, which increase year by year, and the findings of injured and killed animals are also a psychological burden on owners. I think it is reasonable for those who are going to live on animal husbandry to do so so that at least the resources given by nature can be used. Therefore, a new report of predators should be promoted during the year, so that the sheep and domestic industry knows what framework conditions the politicians in this house will give them in the future. I would like to remind you that the core area model was introduced without any impact assessment being carried out. In the course of the 1997 report on predatory animals, the size of the population was very small in terms of the impact of such management. The result we are seeing today. The core areas of predatory game have worked poorly because predatory game hunts for food in the form of domestic or elk, deer, etc. and therefore, of course, does not care about the politically adopted core areas. If there is little food for the predators within a nuclear domain, the predators leave the area and establish themselves where there is more food in the form of buffalo or other huntable game. The fact that the core area model has not functioned very well has also been pointed out by several, including: A number of municipal and county policies, sheep farmers, domesticists and organisations, such as the Norwegian Farmers' Association, the Norwegian Farmers' Association, and the Norwegian Forest Association, to name a few. The core area of yours is one example of the fact that the administration does not have the power to follow up the two-part management goals of the Storting, with the result that during a three-year period, the yew has spread to large parts of South Norway. Nuclear areas should be decommissioned and replaced by general measures for the conservation of predators. It is important that predatory game management is also seen in the context of the management of other game in forests and outland. In this context, it is neither appropriate nor desirable that a sharp increase in the stock of wild game should take place at the expense of the positive development that has taken place in Norway after the war in relation to the population of elk, deer and deer. Hunting and harvesting of the large predators are very demanding. Therefore, withdrawals from predators causing damage or threatening situations should be carried out quickly and efficiently. In case of pest withdrawals or in order to keep the stock under control, appropriate technical aids must be allowed. The restrictions you currently have with allowances and cancellation permit lead to a low take-off. According to data from the Statistical Central Bureau, the fall rate in 1999–2000 was 66 for youw and 68 for gaupe. It should also be considered to extend the hunting time and to authorise the use of more hunting methods to increase the rate of killing set for quota hunting. One example is to start the hunt for predators earlier in the fall, so that it coincides with another hunt, and that one begins before the time of darkness in North Norway. More flexible hunting times and methods must be opened up which take greater account of local conditions. It should also be considered to provide a large shot premium for predators. The managing authorities must assume their responsibilities and ensure that the allowances are met. I have very little faith that increased appropriations for preventive wild game damage and conversion measures will help, but that the answer lies in a transformation of today's predatory game policy. It is also necessary to present the total cost of current wild game management in order to better predict the economic impact of future wild game management, regardless of the future management. I refer to the proposals of the Party of Advancement and the Central Party in Document No. 8:7 and Document No 8:18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e244	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e247	Since the last major report on the management of predators was addressed by Stortingen in 1997, the situation of predators has changed considerably. This is due to several relationships. Firstly, there has been a significant growth in predatory strains. Secondly, the very management of predators has intensified the conflict between the desire for viable predators and the exploitation of land resources. This means that the authorities have failed to achieve the two-part objective set in the reporting of predators: to combine the objective of viable predatory strains with active off-road industries. This has resulted in economic and emotional pressures for operators in domestic and livestock farming and conflict with hunting and outdoor interests. The result is a marked higher level of conflict. Developments have clearly shown that the management of predators and the instruments established for the treatment of St.melding. No 35 for 1996-97, which was mainly a continuation of St.meld. No 27 for 1991-92, has not managed to deal adequately with the situation that has arisen. Therefore, the right considers that there is a need for a new and comprehensive review of predatory policies. Such a review must take place within the framework of the provisions of the Berne Convention on the conservation of biodiversity while at the same time ensuring the ability of operators in animal husbandry and domestic animal husbandry to make use of herds. The objective must be to develop a policy that allows the combination of viable predatory strains with open-air interests and the exploitation of land resources. It is of the opinion of the right that it is important that the Storting should take a comprehensive decision on predatory policies based on up-to-date stock estimates and professional assessments relating to the development of predatory strains, as well as the impact on the different industries and outdoors. Without such an overall review, there is a risk of producing individual proposals and decisions that are not seen in the context, leading to an unfortunate fragmentation of predatory policies. This is now the broad connection in Stortinget. Of the four Documents No The eight proposals currently under consideration are Document No. The 8th proposal by the Right-wing Representatives to be adopted. It is then natural to recall that it is no longer more than three months since the Minister for the Environment Siri Bjerke wrote in an answer to a written question from the representative Bjørn Hernæs that she did not need to re-examine the main lines and objectives underlying today's predatory policy. The councils justified this by the fact that the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, as late as the Budget-inner. S. No 9 for 1999-2000 concluded that the broad lines of predatory policy are clear. In recent times – not least through the proposals under consideration here today – the Centre Party has shown in this case that they now want to go after the Progress Party. Common to the proposals of these parties is that they address a limited part of the predatory problem in an attempt to raise the unpopular parts of the policy. It is then easy to forget that the wolf has come to stay in Norway, and their policy must also be based on both the fact that we have a long border with Sweden, and not least on the fact that we must also fulfil the international commitments we have entered into. This is why it is particularly important that one in this case – to use a picture – chooses to spin a new election match on the conflict that has arisen in relation to the wolf. In this case, there is reason to commend the rapporteur's efforts to establish broad political cooperation in order to achieve a balanced predatory policy that could dampen the conflict. And we are particularly pleased that one through the settings in these four cases has managed to adjust predatory policies in our direction, by addressing some of the challenges we face. In the right, we feel that we have had an impact on important things in these matters, including: to produce a report on predatory animals in which a comprehensive policy review is carried out, and not just dealing with detached parts. For us who were opposed to the part that goes into the core areas when we last treated the predatory message, it is important that one not here pursues politics on the individual elements, but that all parties take responsibility for the whole. And the case rapporteur in this case has been able to find it in an excellent way. Then we're going to hope that the report now being presented has a thorough analysis of the problems that exist, and where one, not least, makes new proposals that allow one in Norway to have a combination of viable district industries and a sensible predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e258	On behalf of the Centre Party and the Progress Party, I make two proposals. One sounds like this: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting a proposal for a new wolf management area.’ The second word is the following: ‘The government is asking the government to take its own decisions, and before the Government takes its decisions on the matter, it is informing the government of the implications of the implementation of the new wolf management area for the outlanding industries, resource use, ecology, animal protection and well-being of local communities, and also doing good for economic purposes, including the extent of future substitutes.’ The prospects are small that these proposals get multiple numbers here today, despite the fact that they are both reasonable and reasonable. So what's the explanation? Well, in the first case, it's constitutional. In this setting, I read that a number of the parties are in favour of sending the wolf plan to Stortinget because such a procedure would create unclear responsibilities between government and accumulation. There is at most an up-to-date problem setting. It seems to be based on a premise that the government got enough directionlines to stick to in the handling of the 1997 report of predators. At that point, there can be great doubts today. The management plan, as we have known it up until now, is hardly in line with the views and representations of the Stortinge when the main lines of predator policy were discussed. And there's been a lot going on from 1997 to today. Conflicts have risen dramatically. The basis for predatory policies is now so uncertain that today's mass destruction will ask for a new report of predators about their experience. All this is a good argument for the proposal in Document No. 8:8. Such a situation should, of course, be submitted to the Stortinget. But then in the next round, the plural argues that this kind of management plan requires a competence that the Storting does not have enough. The size should not have any opinion on the level of viable wolf populations in Norway or should carry out assessment of management models and their follow-up. The note is unlikely to be interesting, and it does not have any historical associations. Here, the state of the civil servant speaks – it revisits us and clings to its grip. I'm glad to have such an important observation recorded. Isn't the Storting competent to evaluate management models? What is zoning, what is the nucleus, aren't these models central to our principle thinking? Don't such questions belong to Stortinget? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It does not, however, prevent the same group from having clear opinions about the management plan for you. Jerv can discuss Stortinget, but not Wolf. At this point, the plurality of its argument, in my opinion, goes in resolution. The explanation may be that it is currently politically more difficult to handle the wolf than other predators. So a few words about the second proposal, which also didn't seem to get plural today. The proposal requires impact assessments to be carried out before the Government decides to put the management plan for wolves into effect. It is in line with the principle of modern environmental management. It's the preposition that's the important word here. However, the majority would have provided such analyses after the management plans were inconceivable. We can only take note of what is in opposition to predatory policy. Nevertheless, it is in its place to remind ourselves of the following: fear is now a serious phenomenon in many communities. Tribulation is in jeopardy. Politically, we can't put ourselves away from these problems. It's not enough to write that we understand people's fear. It has to be done. If the Storting e.g. This will be of great help in carrying out impact assessments of the wolf plans. I refer again to the proposal from the Centre Party and the Advance Party. Finally, I am pleased that Stortinget is asking for a new report from predators. But the minority, to whom I belong, suggests that the message be sent before the end of this year. And we want the message to contain something more than the presentation of experience, we require the conversion of predatory policies on several points. Today, the centre party will vote in favour of a proposal to phase out nuclear reactors. The party had the same position in 1997. As is well known, nuclear energy was introduced without impact assessments, and today, experience speaks its clear language. We don't need any more distributions. And actually, it looks like the plural is also drifting in the right direction, at least the plural requires that the use of nuclear energy is drawn up for discussion in the new staging message. At least it's a light point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e281	John Dale of the Center Party used the "flock" about the plurality in the staging room. I hope he didn't think about the creation of other flocks in this country. SV is quite clear that there is no need to introduce a killing of wolf flocks now. There are several reasons for that, but not least the relationship with the Berne Convention and the agreements we have with Sweden require us to take time and use our heads. In addition, it has come up with information that looks at the number of family groups of wolves that actually exist. The SV’s advice to the Government is therefore that it must comply with all the facts on the table, as well as with the system of compliance with both the Bern Convention and the agreements with Sweden. It is very unfortunate if the Norwegian government acts in a way that could weaken cooperation with our Swedish neighbours. We should wait for the new predator message to arrive, which is in 2003. But let's say, if the government chooses to do a shooting, this should not affect wolf groups that can be defined as a complete family group. It is in its place to remind you that in relation to the problem settings related to sheep labor, the wolf and eagle are actually a similar problem, but little, while the yerven is the great scapegoat. SV is very pleased that a large majority, with the exception of the Centre Party and the Progress Party, join the SV's proposal to develop a pilot project with preventive and research-based work in predatory areas. There's no one who thinks there's no problem related to predators, small ruminants and buffs as well as people when they're going to live in the same area. But it's actually an example that it's possible to create solutions that reduce the contradictions, and here Norway can do a job. The many challenges of predatory policies also require increased efforts by the government. Many suggest that we know little about how predators live and grow. SV is therefore busy doing something about this and shows it. for trials in Abruzzo, Italy, where the powers of government have made a major contribution to prevention. Here, over many years, a systematic effort has been made to enable predators, buffalo and human beings to function together. The range, which was the emigration tree, experienced a monthly flowering, among other things. Youth moved back. SV, and now also the majority, wants a host to experience such projects, that one picks out one or two areas in Norway and adds monthly resources to carry out preventive and research-based work. Such a project could involve new knowledge of predatory issues, while at the same time it could be a provocative district effort of interest to, inter alia. youth. So the challenge for the Minister for the Environment will be to get this project going in good time before we get the new report on predators, which we are going to deal with in 2003. I would particularly like to challenge the Council of State to answer whether it is possible to launch such a project. Otherwise, SV looks forward to a holistic and thorough management of the issues in 2003, for which SV has also agreed, i.e. a new report on predators and a new holistic review that can assure us a proper predatory management in this country. Otherwise, I would like to inform you that SV will vote against II of the proposals for decisions in Innst. S. No 113 and the Inst. S. No 111.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e302	There are several aspects to taking into account in our predatory policy. We cannot ignore the fact that Norway has international obligations, and that is also strongly reflected in today's attitudes and in the treatment of predatory policies, not least the relationship with the Berne Convention and the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. All countries that have ratified these conventions have a significant responsibility to follow them up. Swedish authorities want to have a word with them in terms of how we're going to pursue our wolf policy. We have now noticed the reactions of the Swedes, and they claim that we are pushing more and more of the responsibility for the protection of the wolf and bear on them. A country as rich as Norway should be a model and a priority country for the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of our predators. We cannot expect a poor country like Tanzania to take care of its predators, while Norway leaves behind. All countries must take responsibility for the conservation of endangered species. The whole of Norway, with the exception of Sami reindeer areas, has been a single management area for wolves since the Great Britain’s 1997 notification of predators. In this area, the wolf shall have a strict protection until an objective of eight to ten family groups in South Scandinavia has been achieved. In this area, the establishment of family groups shall be accepted. It is a majority of the Stortinget who believe that it is the Government that is to be entrusted with administrative responsibilities and that it is to establish detailed limits for the management areas of the wolf. However, the majority is included in II of the proposal for a decision in order to limit the geographical area of the new wolf management plan to a minimum within the objective of viable wolf populations in Norway. This proposal for a decision is a clear signal to the Government. This also shows the dilemma we face in our predatory policy. We need to balance the consideration of buffalo farming with a viable stock of predators. This is not easy, but through prevention and active management, conflicts can be reduced. I believe that in the predatory debate there should be more focus on opportunities than on problems. In other countries, for example, by guessing and shepherding dogs to minimise the loss of livestock. But we also need to take the fear of men seriously. This can be achieved, for example, by: the consequences of increasing mistrust between management, outreach and protection interests. In this respect, the majority of the Committee considers that, for some real everyday problems, these reactions must be taken seriously, recognising that this has not been sufficiently done in the past. Today, also in relation to what was done in 1997, the size of the population will increase the government’s handling of current wolf management. I expect that we will come back to a more profound debate also on our predatory policy during the process of the Great Britain Communication on the Kingdom's environmental state, which is just around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e321	We have today put on the table four settings on predatory policies, and I think it is high time. After I addressed this issue already during the election campaign in 1997, and again and again from this pulpit, I have been partially ridiculed in the media. But there have obviously been some traces behind in this room, since we have now been presented with these proposals that are now under consideration. Finally, it appears that the majority of the Storting have also begun to wake up with regard to this problem, which has been allowed to develop. Here one claims that we are obliged under the Berne Convention to maintain viable populations of wolves in this country. It is not mentioned in one single word in the text of the Berne Convention that one should have viable populations of some predators! On the other hand, a letter from the Convention Secretariat in 1996 states that each country is responsible for the existence of all species belonging naturally to the country in viable populations. But that's not the text of the Berne Convention. It is the Secretariat's letter and must be seen as an opinion from the Chair of the Secretariat. The first time this word appeared was in the context of a formulation for the preliminary work on the game law in Norway in 1981, which was later incorporated into the mirrored principle of the wild law, where all species are basically at peace. Later the term has been used in various predatory messages, but it has never been part of the text of the Berne Convention! It is a bit striking that it was first mentioned in 1981 and afterwards comes as an opinion from the Secretariat to the Berne Convention. The wolf was claimed to have been eradicated in Norway in 1996 — it has been eradicated for a number of years. We have images from a hunt for Finnmarkswiss where the defense shot the last wolf. It has been eradicated. It was eradicated until 1996-97. There must be a world record in multiplication what has happened in the last three years. How is it that a stock that was not existing and that could not be viable at all because it was too small of it, suddenly operates in an – I will claim – unknown number of family groups and flocks, cf. Mr Langeland's statement from this very interlocutory? There's uncertainty about how many there are. It could actually be hundreds. How can that happen in three years? It's incredible to me. But it's documented that there were hybrids in this country. On repeated proposals, genetic testing and the detection of hybrids were carried out. But then the press was quick and also the el people's snare to get to the VG: The wolf mother has been unfaithful! [[Laughter]] At the same time, we read that wolves eat dogs for lunch, dinner and evening. [[Laughter]] Amazing! It looks like they're mating with their food! Then there's another theme I want to mention. These are animals that multiply by up to five-six individuals per. years. Five to six kids get them every year. Each pair will have at least three survivors. As far as I know, they don't use condoms or pill pills! [[Laughter]] We are facing an explosion if nothing is done. And it's high time this topic was raised and debated. We are facing an eradicating of rural agriculture, and we are facing an eradicating of the joy of walking in the woods. And that's the Biggest's responsibility!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e341	A predatory debate can span from one extreme to the other. Some want unlimited predators in Norway, while others prefer to see them away from Norwegian soil. For the Progress Party, this is about the quality of life of those who are affected by our great predators – a quality of life that consists of different things for each of us. However, the word ‘quality of life’ essentially provides security for living and living in the districts, as well as for living with and of what nature can provide. In approx. 100 years we've had a limited predatory strain that's lived without too many complications with humans. But in recent years the number of animals has increased considerably, so that many today experience them as a pure threat to the further existence of our districts. Many claim that it is now the predators or humans you have to make a choice between. When you can film eight wolves at the same time from your kitchen window in the north of Hedmark, most of us must agree that not only is it positive to live there, but that you also feel fear – fear of letting your children play out, fear of being out there, fear of moving in nature, fear of harvesting that nature can bring. It is impossible to have buffe as a whole or as a recreational activity or to offer nature as a recreational area with e.g. hunt for elk and deer. These moments, as well as many others, make it a question of whether our areas affected by predators will be able to survive, or whether they will gradually be emptied of permanent residents and become resorts only a few weeks a year. Many egrets claim that the so-called predatory zones could limit and reduce the adverse effects of predators. But for the people who live in these sons, everyday life will fade away completely hopelessly. When wolves sniff the fence around the nursery, most people have to realize that many parents have very little desire to have their child there. In the areas in which the zones are proposed, job offers are also often limited. Therefore, nature can offer, of great importance in order to obtain income. For many, therefore, having a buffe as a reinvigorator is a necessity to get an income to live on, so that you can live here with your family as well. For those who have invested fully in this industry, it is very difficult to be able to convert this investment, and you will be able to stand on a bare ground after a short time. There has also been a great deal of positive progress in agriculture in adapting to society in recent times. Here you can mention that someone has invested in experiences and hunting trips with everything from full service to simple service. But once the predators have taken the buffalo, there is a short way to go, among other things. elg and deer, and it's not going to be easy to have adventure tours on. Very many hunters have also lost their hunting dog and companion, and thus also in this way reduced their quality of life and their income potential. More and more people with mental health problems have also been registered because of the herrings of predators and the resulting unrest. It turns out that more and more, including individuals and organisations, have gradually become more and more sceptical about the nuclear model or the so-called zones. The core area of yours is a good example that the administration does not have the power to follow the two-part management profile of the Storting, with the result that during a three-year period, yours has spread to large parts of South Norway. And here we are at the root of the problem. The Progress Party will also recall that the core area model was introduced without any impact assessment being carried out. The size had then a very small overview of what the consequences would be of such management. It's no secret that this has worked very badly. It goes without saying that e.g. The wolf, which can move many miles over a day, of course, your food dish is, when the last sheep, deer, and elk are eaten up where it is. This means that a boundary on a map has very little meaning. This means, a sense of humor in this matter, that the predator has shown very little interest and ability to perceive the signals that society's environmental architects have given, and the predators in practice give the bluff in the boundaries of these core regions. The game of prey follows the food, so easy it is. Then it helps very little to take the sheep out of the core areas; the wolf, of course, moves after. It must have food. Therefore, the model of core areas must be completed as soon as possible and replaced by general measures for the conservation of Norwegian predators, which we are obliged to do under the Berne Convention. However, it has not been said by the Progress Party that Norway must take all this responsibility alone. Some claim that the wolf is endangered by extinction. This is wrong. Worldwide, there are hundreds of thousands of wolves, and a few from or to Norway should therefore not be of such importance to our fauna. It needs more cooperation with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e369	Over a ten-year period, the Stortinget has discussed predatory policies, and I am convinced that the meeting with the reality of «Roverland» has been both tough and surprising for many, both politicians and bureaucrats. Over the period, there have been many good theoretical suggestions on how to resolve the conflict between domestic animals and predators. Because it has to be solved! In this size we have determined that you should continue to have both predators and the use of demarcated pastures for sheep farmers. Among the theoretical proposals that have been the most proposed and enthusiastically supported by both policymakers and bureaucrats are guessing. Last year, however, the environmental protection department in Hedmark told us that guessing did not show any particularly good results, so we could not bet on that. There has also been talk of moving sheep from one pasture to another. – It wasn’t particularly tricked either, when you know that the bite you had intended to move to was busy, and that the predators actually followed. In an early phase of predatory policy, we also heard that the wolf neither swam nor jumped over fences, which the wolf has actually proved against. And believe it or not, the wolf is actually not afraid of people anymore. The new thing in the predatory debate now is that the protests come not only from the sheep industry, but also from very common people who don't have sheep at all, but who use the forest as recreation. They question our predatory policy. They feel that predatory policies do not mean better quality of life for themselves. Since 1993, there has been an increase in Hedmark from 3,000 predatory sheep to 9 000 in 2000. That means that the compensation payment for the year 2000 is 11.6 million. kr., while the prevention measures are about Three million. kr. There are many sufferings behind these numbers, and a lot of loss of night sleep and searching outland after cadavers. The new thing for the country I'm from is that you want to put additional burdens on the population and the sheep industry. With the wolf zone between the border and Glomma in Hedmark, the damage and suffering will be further increased. I think it is worth noting that there are very few municipalities in this country that have wanted to take on the burden of being host to wolf families. The only people I've been informed that the whole heart has said yes to it are Porsgrund and Arendal municipalities. The idea is tempting and nearby, but I will not impose on others the difficulties we ourselves have. The proposal from Sweden to increase the wolf population to 500 is very little thought, if I may say so carefully. 500 wolves means 50 new family groups, and with approx. 5 new wolf puppies each year will give 250 new wolves every year. We also know that the wolf eats an average of 10 kg of meat per. Today, and you ask me, this is a wolf population out of control, and I don't like to be called barbaric by neither Swedes nor Americans because I don't want such a situation in the borders between Norway and Sweden. It is decided today that we will have a new predator report. It is important to stress that this predatory message is not just about economics, because it is not just about economics. We can't pay ourselves out of this problem. Many people protest because their quality of life is being degraded, hunting opportunities are getting worse, and large forest areas are being destroyed because people will neither live there nor be there, and because the sheep and the game are being taken by predators. Therefore, I think it is important that the impact assessment of predatory policies we have conducted should take into account what happens to settlement: is it going to be deportation or relocation, what happens to cultural landscapes and pastures, how is hunting and fishing affected by this – and not least people's outdoor life? The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, was very proud of the fact that they had received a rapture message. I am not proud until the consequences of the robbery message are taken into account. I want to say that I am going to vote against the geographical management area of the wolf and the core area of the predatory game, and I want the wild game message to come in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e388	I note that a majority of the Committee suggests that the main lines and objectives of the forest game management, as expressed through the report by St. No 35 for 1996-97 and subsequent treatment in the United Kingdom, remain stable. This includes, inter alia: the design of the predatory game policy within the framework of the international conventions, the maintenance of viable populations of wolf, bear, yerv and gupe, and the continuation of the two-fold objective of ensuring both active outdoor activity based on bup and tamrein and viable predatory game strains. This also implies that management should be based on a differentiation of areas in order to maximise the predictability of nutritionists and local populations, and that local populations should be actively involved as far as possible in decisions within the framework of the objective of viable predatory game strains. I noticed that the committee points out that since St. reported. No 35 for 1996-97 was promoted, a number of measures have been taken in line with the Storting decision to limit the level of injury and mitigate the conflicts, and these measures are of such a nature as to allow them to ‘have a time’, as it says, before assessing the overall impact. In particular, the majority of the Committee calls for an evaluation and a comprehensive review of the predatory game policy by the end of 2003 at the latest. The Committee further states that the notification should be based on international environmental conventions, including the obligations of the Berne Convention, and the broad lines of predatory policy. The government will follow up on this. With regard to the management of yews in particular, the majority of the Committee points out that the development of the Southern Nile region should be closely monitored and that the ongoing evaluation of the management of yews under the auspices of the Directorate for Nature Management this winter could provide answers as to whether it might be appropriate to find new management models for yews that can in future better meet the two-part objective of predatory policy. I have noticed here that the Government has the power of the Storting to implement the possible decommissioning of the core area of you if this proves appropriate in order to achieve the objectives of predatory policies. As regards the management of the wolf, I note that there is a majority in the Committee that wants the management area of the wolf to be further demarcated in relation to the demarcation made by the Stortinget against areas of Sami domestic farming, by means of the 1996-97 deer notification. This is because the establishment of wolf groups in large geographical areas can contribute to further problems related to stock management and control. The majority assume that the administrative area on the one hand should be limited to the extent that conflicts can be minimised. On the other hand, the area should not be demarcated more than the possibility of a burden-sharing over time between different areas of management. There is also a majority in the Committee which considers that the definition of an administrative area for wolves is a matter of an administrative nature, which is therefore left to the administration of the Government to settle. This is in line with my view and that of the Government on how the future management of the wolf should be handled, and I will ensure that this is followed up. I have also noticed that a majority in the Committee is asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate way, with a work-through scheme for how it is supposed that a wolf management area will work in practice. I also point out that, in the context of a new roll-call policy announcement, the Committee wants the Government to come back with an assessment of the experience with the wolf management. It is also desirable that, as soon as possible after the existence of the quarterly management plans and not later than during the first half of 2002, an impact assessment of these quarterly plans should be submitted to the Stortinget. In a short time, the Government will present to the Stortinget an administrative area for wolves which will ensure that conflicts can be minimised, while allowing for a burden-sharing between different areas of management over time. Furthermore, the Government will present to the Stortinget an impact assessment of the scheme of state-owned management plans for large predators during the first half of 2002. The planning of the work on a new wholesale message will start rapidly, with the aim of providing a comprehensive review of the predatory game policy, and it will be presented to the Stortinget by the end of 2003. The Committee points out that the level of conflict in relation to predatory issues is growing, that many express that they are not taken seriously in the predatory debate, and that fear, depression and other psychological problems follow in the wake of the wolf’s presence. This is a problem I'm very concerned about. The presence of predators in Norwegian fauna can affect the quality of life differently, and fear of life and health is too important for many. In this work, I want to pay particular attention to the provision of objective knowledge on how to take account of also large predators as we travel in areas where contact with people can occur. This will be a knowledge of the way of life, biology and precautions of predators in the event of contact between large predators and humans and precautions to prevent predators from becoming too close. The stock development of wolves suggests more active management over time. This means that killing will become an increasingly frequent tool, both to regulate the population and to take out individuals from wolves showing a threatening or near-behaviour. I note that the majority of the Committee is in favour of a continued high level of ambition in predatory policies through the continuation of the aims of the 1996-97 report on predatory wildlife, while reducing losses and conflicts in relation to the current situation. This implies, in the Committee's opinion, that it is necessary to ensure an effective extraction of predators outside the core areas and pests where the breeding permit has been granted, a strengthening of the stock registration, a greater focus on prevention measures and specific measures for the reindeer industry. I agree with these priorities and will contribute to their follow-up. Furthermore, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee asks the Government to develop a pilot project for preventive and research-based work in predatory areas, based among others. experience from similar problem areas in other countries. The government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for such a pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e425	The Council of State did not have in mind one thing that is of great importance to Norwegian anti-terrorism policy, and that is Sweden's anti-terrorism policy. After all, the Swedish authorities want to increase their predatory strains. The proposal is that the wolf population should be increased to 500, that the herd should be increased to a minimum of 400, that the population of the bear should be 1000 animals, and that the population of the ostrich should be kept to about 400. 1500 animals. The impact of the Swedish predatory policy will increase the immigration of Swedish predators on Norwegian soil, which will lead to severe losses for sheep farmers and losses of other huntable game, such as: elk and deer. At the same time, there will be fear among some of those living in the districts – naturally. I have been informed that several meetings have been held between the administrative authorities and the departments of the two countries this autumn to ensure good contact and mutual information. From the Norwegian side, emphasis is placed on providing views on the problems the Norwegian authorities will face with an increasing population of wild game in our neighbouring country. It could have been very interesting that the Council of State said a few words about it. Does the Council of State not see the need for a new treatment of the whole of predatory animal policy as a matter of urgency, and for those affected to know what the authorities want to do in the future, so that they have an overview of the life situation and quality of life that they will have in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e434	There has been close cooperation with Sweden in the field of predator management in recent years, and there is also close cooperation with Sweden at present. I can inform you that there is a complete consensus between Norway and Sweden as regards the outlook on the stock development of predators, and that the figures, as they appear in Norway on the wolf population, are fully shared on the Swedish side. Then, of course, each country has a responsibility to break down national principles for predatory management and also follow-up in practice. At present, such a debate is taking place in Sweden, as it does in Norway, and one has both short-term and long-term objectives for the Swedish population. The short-term objectives are much more modest than the figures recorded by the representative Korsberg and do not differ so much from those used by the Stortinge in the case of the wolf population in Norway. I see no need to change the Norwegian targets in the light of what is happening in Sweden, but I see a very great need for continued close contact with the Swedish authorities, and an effective follow-up to our national policies in the light of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e441	The majority in the UK are in favour of impact assessments being carried out after the implementation of the county management plans for wolves. But this procedure is alarming, because it violates the established principle before Norwegian environmental management. One is that impact assessments should take precedence over measures. The second is the principle of being led was. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment to comment on this situation. I would like to refer here to the proposal that the Centre Party and the Progress Party have been looking forward to. There the government is asked to present the consequences before the wolf plan is realized. How does the Minister for the Environment assess this proposal in the light of the administrative principles I have just mentioned? And then one more thing. Today, the size will probably adopt proposals to ‘relieve the human costs associated with predatory policies’, as it says. Now there is no ‘relief’ of a good word, it should be said ‘prevention’. At the same time, we can speculate on what can come out of such a decision in practice. I would like to ask the Council of State: will not impact assessments, in line with the precautionary principle, be the best cure for fear and reduced well-being in our communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e454	To both questions from the representative Dale, I have to say that I am more concerned about what we can do in practice than about going down these administrative principles. I believe that both the evaluations we are going to carry out on a county basis, and a subsequent impact assessment, together with the work we are doing all the time to evaluate the measures we are implementing – the prevention measures, the follow-up of the killing decisions, the different aspects of predatory management – provide us with the basis we need to keep up with measures that can reduce the conflict between keeping sheep on the field and wanting to have predators in Norwegian nature at the same time. I am very pleased with the majority position of the Committee, but I do not want to exaggerate the great difference with the fact that we have to keep on the watch and find out whether these are actions that are on the right track. I see a large space of action for new measures in the area of prevention and in different parts of predatory management in parallel with the fact that we are facilitating a subsequent impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e459	My first question is about the planned shooting of wolf flocks in relation to reactions that at least I have seen in the Swedish press from among others. the government, where this is not seen with particular positive eyes compared to the cooperation agreement one has with Sweden. I would like to have the Council of State's view on this, while also listening to Articles 1 and 6 of the Berne Convention, which both emphasise the national obligations and the obligations you have in cooperation with other countries, whether such a reduction will be in line with these agreements. Then I have to say that I am very pleased with the Minister for the Environment's positive response to the proposal from SV that now has multiples in Stortinget, when it relates to a project that can actually lead to a district effort, where one then gathers people and predators and buffalo and stuff and makes them live together. It's a possibility that not everyone in the Workers' Party believes, but that actually works in some areas of the world, etc. Italy. My question is, how quickly does the Council of State believe you can come back with such a matter? My last question is related to something that the representative of the government party, the Labour Party, Grethe Fossum was concerned about, namely the lack of effort one has for prevention, and SV joins that criticism from the representative of the government party. Does this mean that the Government will insist that this area be prioritised in the forthcoming revised budgets and the forthcoming rounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e468	First of all, the proposed research project. I'm not coming up with a date, but this is an action that the Government will follow up as quickly as possible, and I will also bring it forward in relation to the representative Dale's question a moment ago, because I believe that this kind of prevention work can also be important in relation to what is going to become an impact assessment later. It is such that the Directorate for Nature Management has forewarned the possible collapse of one-two family groups of wolves in Hedmark. This is a pre-announced but not yet notified decision. It may come to my table, as complaints on the decision have been announced if it is made. For my part, let me say, without going into a concrete decision, that if it becomes relevant to the killing of wolves in Norway, it will happen under the cooperation agreements we have with Sweden and under our international commitments. In that case, there will be a reduction in the growth of the wolf trunk based on the achievement of a stock target, as determined by the Storting, and as established, and as part of an overall management plan that is in line with these objectives. It is true that concerns have been expressed on the Swedish side. That's a relationship I'm going to have with my Swedish colleague about in the near future. I can confirm that we will focus on prevention measures in relation to the predatory problem in the future, as we have done at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e475	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e479	Because of the fog on the Gardermo, I started the day with a one - and - a - half - hour inspection of the East. It was relevant as far as relevant in relation to today's theme, for there was fine track snow in large parts of the area. The left will continue the main line of Norwegian predatory policy. It is a balanced compromise, in which the various interests are well-balanced. There should be no doubt that Norway will have viable and reproducible populations of the four major predators. We also maintain a two-fold objective that ensures agriculture's exploitation of land resources in a way that allows for clean-up and sheep farming within an economically acceptable framework. The consideration of the four proposals before us today confirms the firmness and continuation of the broad lines of predatory policy. A new debate will be opened in the wake of a 2003 big news release, and then an evaluation will be natural based on the experience and knowledge that you then have. From the left, it will also be natural to build further on the main line of predatory policy, but open to the adjustments that the knowledge at that time implies. It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that constitute the most extensive majority constellation in the process today, but in reality we are also followed by the Right and SV. It is positive that it is such a broad majority that it will continue its policy in such a conflict-affected area. Some adjustments are added up. It is natural from the experience we are reaping. It'll be unthinkable not to take seriously what we're learning, and what we're getting from recordings. The result would then be a severe setback for the established predatory policy. The aim is to mitigate the level of conflict while at the same time achieving its objectives. Those who doubt that today’s treatment represents a continuation of predatory policies – yes, they do predatory policy as a service to bears. They legitimise that changes are being worked for which there is no basis in the settings we are dealing with today. The Centre Party and the Advance Party have chosen, as an alternative, a different line – a clearer line – than they have set up on each of the previous occasions. It seems to be clarifying. There is less room for interpretation of what is established policy when the minority goes its own way and is not covered by the same formulations used by the majority, which represent a different policy. Improvements and adjustments are needed in some essential areas. It is suggested that stock records should be further strengthened. The focus on prevention has increased significantly in recent years and is now set to strengthen further. I also think it is important that a pilot project be launched based on the experience from other countries. What we're behind is obliging goals, which we also have to be willing to take the budgetary consequences of. Some of these measures are of an urgent nature and therefore have to start work on this and do not await the processing of the forecasted gross domestic product. It also opens for adjustments regarding yours. This does not mean that a reindeer is renouncing on the target of the stock of herds, but will assess whether there is a more appropriate management model than core areas. It is part of Norwegian predatory policy that individual animal harvesting is to be carried out, and I think it is satisfactory for the Council of State now to deal with the matter in question with the wolf population in Eastern Europe. It's about withdrawals to relate to a growth in the population that's part of the policy we're going to have to achieve the goals we have. It does not represent a new course, and it is very important to get fixed for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e496	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e499	The size today addresses four different issues related to the management of our four large predators. There are major contradictions in how management is to be carried out. Many today experience predators in their immediate environment, creating a significant reduction in the quality of life for the many who live in areas where animals are currently moving. Today's predatory management, in my opinion, has not worked well enough and so the majority previously intended. The majority now give verbal expression to the uncertainty and reduced quality of life experienced by many in today’s administration. But those who have predators in their vicinity probably experience the majority's position as a word without action. In my opinion, the administrative areas of the wolf are so principled that the matter should be dealt with in the Stortinget. It is Stortingen's responsibility to make this kind of decision. Physical and mental plagues caused by wolves affect the population, which we elected as sponsors, and therefore, in my opinion, it becomes too easy and passive to leave this to the administration. No one disagrees that competence is required in order to make a good decision on future management, but this area is not particularly relevant in relation to other important and heavy cases. If this is going to be Storting's practice, there will be few cases in my opinion that Stortinget has professional competence for. Small areas of wolf management will lead to considerable pressure in these areas, and how do you imagine a burden-sharing within narrow areas? I regret today's majority position on our predatory management. In my view, the hearings of our local politicians have not been sufficiently taken into account. It is also serious when signals from a skilled person, e.g. municipal, not taken seriously. I therefore believe that there is a basis for asking the representatives of Storting to carefully evaluate the minority's proposals, and I would recommend that as many representatives as possible join these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e515	Robbery policy engages, and opinions are strong. However, I have never heard a single farmer who has ordered the eradication of all predators, but they are calling for better management of the populations. I now believe that the government is doing well. In Troms – the county I come from – it is the yerven that has led most to the loss of animals on pasture. The animal owners who have suffered significant losses as a result of overstocking of predators have long called for government hunters' corps to take out the quotas set. It is important that the allowances are removed so that the stock does not grow uncontrolled. Now such corps are being established, and I feel sure that this will produce good results. I also believe that it is important to give municipalities more responsibility in predatory policies based on the arrangements adopted. Local knowledge is very important in this context. It is also important that replacement systems function quickly and efficiently, so that those who feed on livestock do not suffer financial losses in addition to the loss of animals. In these days, there's a debate about how terrible it is to trap predators. With the help of some Nordics, we are produced as barbarians in foreign media. Most recently today I received a personal e-mail from a person in Sweden about this. I think such attitudes and reactions are a sign that too many people live so incredibly far from normal contact with nature. This concerns me sincerely, because this can have serious consequences for how people in the future will be able to provide food. Consider, for example, the amazing reactions that occur because we're driving the catch of whales and seals. I am afraid that environmental activists and organisations are in the process of serving the environment as a bear. We may be at risk of eradicating the rural industries and thus resettlement in the districts if fanatical attitudes to such issues become firmly established. I see this as a very great environmental threat and a threat to food production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e528	Many speakers before me have raised the problems of the growth of the wolf population, and we should not underestimate that the wolf in some areas is a major problem. But it is now such that the two sovereign greatest pests are gupa and yerven, not the wolf and the bear. Now the speech of the numbers is fairly clear. In 1999, claims were paid for approx. 13,000 sheep that were taken of you, and 9 300 sheep that were taken of glob. For bears and wolves, the numbers were 3,125 and 622 respectively. The compensation payments to the reindeer plant show this even more clearly. In 1999, no compensation was paid as a result of damage caused by wolves, while compensation was paid for 51 animals killed by bears. The corresponding figures for yerv and gupe were 1,729 and 2,310, respectively. I want to stress that I do not put any emphasis on this in my post to minimize the problems we already have with wolves and bears, but I still think it is important to stress that the biggest losses in the field industries are due to gloat and yurt. This is not least true in large parts of North Norway, where one now has areas in both Troms and Nordland where one has numerous tribes of both yerv and gupe. I understand that the bulk of the population wants to have viable strains of these two predators, but it is very difficult to see that as dense populations as one now has in some places in Troms and Nordland are necessary. In the Northern Calotte, which includes Norway, Sweden and Finland, it is thus a common stock, and the administration should take this into account. On the Norwegian side of the north border, the nitrogen and globular populations are too large today. Throughout North Norway, we lose thousands of sheep and reindeer every year as a result of predator damage. It's just as bad in the local environment and it's just as bad for the user, even though it's you and gloat behind the tragedies. This should be taken into account by the Government in the further work. Maybe it's time to ask why sheep losses as a result of the wolf and bear here in the south are subject to so much attention, while the really big pests in the north almost get none. There are many people who wonder why it should be so, especially when the clear numbers tell where the real problems are the greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e539	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that a new report on predators is coming. It is necessary, and it should become both more thorough and more realistic than the one we now have. This is because a policy has been adopted that is unrealistic in some areas. The majority must know what they do when they adopt a predatory policy. I also think that there is a need to underline what has been said by some today. Robbery policy is primarily unrealistic because the overall problems in the areas to house all four major predators have not been addressed. It has been thought that small-scale outcrops with sheep should be used at the same time. It is unrealistic policies that go on several themes, including: there was no proper work on prevention before planning to build up the populations. The industry and the countryside have had to fight for it afterwards, and it has not made the mood very good. No real work had been done to get compensation schemes in place where the large community was costing, and where one did not need 20 weights in higher education to understand the application form and reach it. It has been unrealistic not to have a clear and clear distinction between policies within and outside the core areas. It has been unrealistic not to know how increased wolf population would act as a combined pressure. It has also been completely impossible to get the majority to take an interest in the large ecological resource in the field. There's the resources that the communities need to take care of. Now it is certainly uncertain whether Sweden accepted the stock targets set by Stortinget at the time, and that they would not initiate an early political pressure against Norway when we followed up the stock targets that we once struck. I think it would have been more honest to take the consequences of this, as the Swedes have done. They have depopulated the population and put the small farms down. I don't want to. But now, later on, we're like the problems that arise, there's a kind of wretchedness and predatory hatred in the countryside. I would say that it is the authorities' handling and reluctance to participate when problems arise, which have faltered the mood, for example. where ovine farmers are not allowed to move to goats, which we know are much better off in predatory areas, where representatives of the authorities claim that it is not at all dangerous for humans with predators. Of course, there's a lot more dangerous, but in certain situations it can be dangerous, and such signals don't create much confidence. In some areas today, I want to vote with the majority. I want to vote in favour of point 4 of the minority proposal at the Inn. S. No 112, which is about to get a real overview of what the compensation actually costs, I want to vote for II of the Inst. S. No 113 and II of the Innst. S. 111, and I ask that there be an opportunity to vote in a point-by-point manner under the minority proposal at the Innst. S. No 112.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e550	Then we're going back to the debate on our four big predators: bear, yerv, yerv, yerv and wolf. That is, we're not talking about all four species anymore, we're mostly talking about wolves, and that's probably right in relation to the prevalence it's received since the 1997 report of predators. But nevertheless, it is important to remember that the herd is too large from Trondelag and northwards. Last year, 800 sheep were replaced because of wolfedrap, while over 13,000 sheep were replaced because of jersey rap. The reindeer also suffer great loss. In fact, it's like this in northern Northland that the reindeer have to shut down the drift just because of the predatory game, and especially the yerven. Here the grazing conditions are good, and the slaughter weight is the best in the country. But what does it help when you almost don't have animals to slaughter? Then the basis of life is gone anyway. This also applies to some sheep owners. In spite of this, we are optimistic in Northern Ireland if more funds can be put in for stock registration work as soon as possible, so that we can know at any time how large the predator stock is. Only then can the firing function work as intended, and the firing should be nearly 100 pst. of the established allowance. At the same time, prevention should also pay off. I have not heard anyone in Northern Ireland who believes that neither the yew nor the other predators will be eradicated, but the administration must soon begin to show results on the basis set in the 1997 setting. Of course, we should have wolf in Norway, and then administrative boundaries, or zone boundaries, as it is also called, are necessary. If Norway is to manage the obligations under the Berne Convention and the UN Convention, we must always be sure that we have wolf families in Norway and in South Scandinavia. We can best do this by locating limited zones located outside the main grazing areas. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee respects the fact that the geographical zoning of wolves is the responsibility of the administration and government to confirm. I am optimistic about the work the Ministry of the Environment has been doing to identify and create a project that can give us answers as to whether the wolf is a danger to humans. We must be serious about rescuing and reducing the quality of life. The majority of the Committee is asked by the Government to submit a notification of predators no later than 2003. Until then, the authorities should have a comprehensive overview of how best to manage the four large predators, so that we can have robust populations in the future. Until then, we have also gained experience with the zoning of the wolf. With good cooperation locally and centrally, I hope that most of us will be proud that in Norway we are able to take care of our biodiversity while at the same time taking care of the field industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e563	Robbery debate engages, and many are – more or less – affected. The level of conflict has increased dramatically, and too many are struggling with undesirable consequences of dimensions, both economically and not least mentally. The psychological part I want to divide into two: those who are afraid to meet, for example, a wolf on a trip to the woods, but more seriously is the psychological burden – and now an accepted medical diagnosis – because of attacks on domestic animals. As a magnification representative, I feel responsible for the management of predators in a way that does not cause disease and suffering to large groups of people. I believe that those who live with the predatory problem in close proximity have great competence in this area, and they must be listened to and taken seriously. They live with all the consequences that were not presented when predator notification was adopted. A new big message is important, but it should come quickly. The majority have indicated that the notification should be made by the end of 2003, and we may then be able to count on treatment in the United Kingdom in 2004. That's about. four years ahead in time. Based on the feedback I get, it is too long, and it may have done irreparable damage to the districts that are particularly affected. That is why I have chosen to support the minority in this case, as it is closest to the feedback I receive, both from my own state and other states, and based on my own assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e572	It was the article from the case-speaker, Brother Yngve Rahm, who got me to take the floor. The representative argued against the proposal that impact assessments should be submitted before the implementation of the wolf management plan. He said we don't have time to wait for such a preparation. President, there's a lot of urgency in this case, but that's exactly what we have time for. So I'm not mixed up in what the case spokesperson said at this point. Ulvest mother may be regulated independently of impact assessments related to future models. It's quite obvious. The case-speaker's claim rhymes little with the shooting of the wolf that is right now a burning matter. And then I'm going to use the power to clarify the fundamental starting point of the Center Party. We want balanced predator management. To achieve this goal, today's predatory policy needs to be changed. The establishment of viable predatory populations must take place in a southern Scandinavian perspective. We need to find, independently of borders, an area where the conflict potential is least. Thus, establishing viable populations in Norway cannot be an independent objective. I would like to underline the word ‘self-contained’. It is pointless to talk about the Swedish or Norwegian wolf. Norway must fulfil its international obligations arising from viable populations in the South Scandinavian region, in line with the Berne Convention. This is the background for the Central Party voting against II of the Innst. S. No 111.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e581	I shall not say so much about all the conflicts that have occurred in the wake of Norwegian predatory policy. But I think it's a little scary that we kind of also have a block that minimizes the fear and the horror that predators in Norway make up in different districts. In this connection, I would like to quote from the history of Namdalen: «In the last part of the last century the plague of predators in Namdalen was pure hell. Overhalla's building history writes about the bear that slammed in the poultry doors and took out the cows. In Kvalstad the bear took himself down into the pond by tearing off the roof. The kids were followed by armed people to and from school." And it's been a hundred years. So we're trying to present this today as if it's not the situation. But I recognize the situation, it's actually like that. I also find it a little pointless that in two countries that are neighbours with each other, we have contradictions in relation to the construction and lowering of the wolf population. I also think, like the representative Dale, that it is completely pointless to talk about Norwegian and Swedish wolves. It's very important for me to look at this wolf trunk in a larger context. Then my question is, is it really that the wolf is threatened? Several representatives have been involved in this earlier today, and they have doubts about that. Then it's nice for me to produce a statistics on the felling of wolves and bears in all the northern regions. For example, from 1983 to 1994, only 0.6 wolves were killed in Norway, while 10 500 wolves were killed in Russia during the same period. Yet they have the files they have. There were 3,796 bears, and there were 10,425 wolves in that period. Then we talk about predators being threatened by decontamination! I don't believe anything in it. It is also a bit interesting to look at in relation to Denmark, which took away the last wolf in 1717. At least it hasn't affected the fauna or anything in that context. The wolf is a wandering animal. That's why I think it's strange that we're going to hold on and take inward that there's a shortage of wolf in Norway. I believe that the concern of the population in the areas as under pressure as they are should be given to the concern of some wolves, and that is my original opinion. It's also strange, I don't think there's going to be a majority in Stortingen to speed up treatment and get a new predator policy. I think it is a discharge to postpone this for up to four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e600	There are enough people in this room who think that we from Hedmark are very busy with predators. I want to angle my post against the part that's about the emotional side. It is possible for those who think this is a little policy. It is possible to gain experience and knowledge by talking to all those who keep domestic animals, who have sheep in Hedmark, the owners who have to go out and sank cadavers, pick up the animals they have actually tended to and had a close relationship with, because then I think maybe someone each would change their mind. Some might say that there's so much sheep in this country. But this is about finding the animals that you're actually happy with, and the predators don't kill on the spot. They supply parts of the animal and leave the rest behind, so they are actually tormented and tormented for hours, days and days. Now there's a lot of talk about sheep and predators, but the predators, especially the wolf, actually also go into the small game. This means that small game will be significantly reduced, and the big community will probably not be able to find it, I guess. The Swedish criticise Norwegian predatory management. Think about it! In the Swedish border areas, people no longer live. No one is keeping livestock in the Swedish border areas. They have reduced the possibility of livestock farming, so the predators, of whom the Swedes are so busy, actually feel that they need to go to Norway to eat, because Norway has maintained a district-friendly policy. But at the same time, it's going to be this predator's dining room -- and we can't find this in, can we? In the end, nature is very beautiful in Hedmark, and in some places it's what we live by. We can't believe that predators are preventing us from using the forest, nature and land. I will ask the Council of State to take decisions on the killing of two wolf families in the Østerdalen in Hedmark as soon as possible. This will significantly facilitate the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e613	I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to and ask him to note that those who participate in this debate are from those areas where there is largely a great deal of pressure in the field of predatory game policy and have really big problems with the game of robbers. In Eastfold we are heavily plagued with wolves. It's become a big problem, and there's a big conflict between the population and the wolf. When the Berne Convention was signed, there was no wolf in Norway, nor was there any wolf population in Norway when the robberies report was debated in 1997. Nevertheless, the majority in the United Kingdom then decided to create core areas for wolves, without knowing the consequences. Today, the majority are in favour of not lifting the core areas of wolves, because you do not know the consequences of doing so. This I think is very inconsistent. The right was unanimous in establishing core areas, and I think that the right should still be. At least I am going to vote in favour of the minority's proposal here on «to wind up the core areas». We may be pleased that we have been given the impression that we are going to have a new report on robbery, but it is very worrying that the majority will give so many directives to the Council of State that I can imagine that there will be nothing particularly new in the management of robbery if you are to stick to what the majority say in this matter. But I hope that the Council of State will go into this with open eyes, and that you will promote a seriously treated report of robbers. I also have to say, like several others here, that I think it must be unnecessary to wait until 2003 before we get a new report on predatory game, and will therefore vote in favour of the proposals of the minority. We all want a balanced game management. We know that predators have come to stay, and we're going to take care of it. When I see that you want to fire two flocks in Hedmark, I understand that from the problems that are there. But then I have a question to the Council of State. She said she wanted to go in for a killing of pests – or she called the animal that was "threatful". And then my question is, what's going on about "threatful"? Would you be willing to take out pests that are in as densely populated areas as in Eastfold, and would you say that fence hoppers are menacing? Will it be said that wolves looking for dogs and cats are menacing? And do you want to take these despite the fact that you are now firing two wolf flocks in Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e624	The predatory problem, and especially the wolf, has become a very difficult matter for the counties and municipalities that have predators in their vicinity. It's not nice, because it's those who feel the problems on the body. And I just have to say that in Eastfold the problems are big. I think that's mainly because the population density is so large in a small area. It will then be difficult to avoid conflicts between predators — the wolf in this case — and those who live there. Every week there is also a look in the newspapers about tragedies, and many say that they have stopped walking in the woods, they have stopped picking berries, and they do not use the forest as they did before. Then it is not easy to say that this is just hysteria and must be sprayed down. That is why it is good that it is now decided that the Storting should be resubmitted to a report on predators and that the problems should be re-examined. But I think it should be possible to get this until the Stortinget long before 2003. We have a lot of experience so far, and there is no reason why this should torment and plague those who are most affected, for even many years. It's also called Innst. S. No 113 to speed up the extraction of predators. But what I'm very disappointed about is that it's only going to happen outside the administrative areas that have been pointed out today. That means that we, who are in those administrative areas, will not experience any improvement. When it comes to the question of whether wolves can be taken out and defined as pests, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: is it a wolf that eats a dog near home, to be a pest or not? If we are to avoid the fear and loss of quality of life that exists where the wolf lice around the house corner, it must be possible to define the nearby animals as being animals with abnormal behaviour and as pests, and thus to be taken out. The rapporteur said there had to be a burden-sharing with regard to our predators. That's not how it feels today. Today, it feels as if someone is going to be burdened with this, while others are getting away with it. I will also vote in favour of several of the minority proposals that have been promoted in the four votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e639	In the matter of our predators, we need to cooperate more with our neighbours so that we get a predatory policy that is more consistent with the Norwegian. The predators, as mentioned earlier, have been able to move far and hence are not a national frontier of importance. Therefore, many living along the border with Sweden are alarmed by the proposed increase in the number of predators by the Swedish authorities. The stock of wolves shall be increased from 70 to 500 animals, by yorks from 270 to 400, the bear stock shall be at least 1000 animals and the globular strain of about 1000 animals. 1500. These are animals that are largely located in these border areas. It is therefore not surprising that large parts of the Swedish border area experience a population reduction and that advertising posters with «Torp for sale» are what you encounter when travelling in these areas. These are states that the Progress Party does not want government policies to lead to in Norway. When the Storting treated the report of predators early in the 1990s, the politicians said that we should have both viable predators and safe conditions for the field industry. But the debate is not as simple as wolf versus sheep. It's about a lot more – about where it's quality of life, and how fast the majority of politicians want to be involved in depopulation districts to the benefit of predators. Quality of life is also about human mental health. Municipal Rune Davidsen in the municipality of Våler in Østfold wrote to his rapporteur on 24 October 2000 that the olive fruit is real and unfortunately increasing, and that something has to be done about it. The title of the letter is «Wood as a health problem in the municipality of Våler». After all, it is more difficult today to find someone who believes that, for example. the municipalities of Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen in Hedmark County can be transformed into the Hackground Forest, where the local value committee threatened the reef to become a vegetarian and never tossed after Klatremus or other carnivorous small animals. We politicians must take note of this, and then it will be too long to wait for a new four-year report.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e648	The treatment of predatory policies here today can best be described as one step forward and two backwards. Among other things, it is only to note that the majority of today's predatory game management has been extended by the Right Party here on the Stortinget by the conclusions given and the joint proposals promoted. The centre party has always said that we should have an impact assessment in advance of the disposals carried out in predator management, as we also said when it came to nuclear areas, but were downgraded – and again we are downgraded. The impact analysis must have been carried out in advance. If we are to have an experience analysis, there will be some kind of evaluation based on experience that can be very expensive. Then we talk about preventive and remedial measures, including guessing. In some places it can be a useful solution, in other places it's completely reprehensible. In the case of the movement of sheep, for the part movement of all grazing livestock, as the wolf in the Oesterdalen has also hunted flocks of cattle, the predators move after. Whether it is in core areas or zones, the wolf or the other predators will move after when the prey animals are away or strongly decimated. From so-called management expert teams, we have heard that predators who are not allowed to cross or under fences should not be able to swim over rivers or water, nor should they cross bridges. However, they must have one characteristic: these predators can read decision-making, administrative regulations and maps. It is at least the only element that can make decisions on nuclear areas or zones to some extent realistic, at least in relation to the holding of predators, because otherwise they know no limits in this context. So to a new report of predators. It is a disappointment that it does not come until 2003. It was obvious from the previous report of predators, which was discussed in 1997, that an evaluation and follow-up should be carried out with a possible new notification. There is no victory in saying that a new report of predators is to be made by the end of 2003. In addition, I share the concerns of the representative, Nakkim, who says that there are many prerequisites here, including: the broad lines of today’s predatory policy should be underpinned — but what comes out of this? We should have a debate on the realities of the Berne Convention. The definition of biodiversity, what's in this room? Among other things, it should well be that environmental policy includes man and human activity. Sometimes that doesn't seem to be the case. I can only note that, with the majority vote here today, these conflicts that are going on, with pain and distress for animals and humans, are going to continue until at least 2004, as decisions can be expected and any changes made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e663	The majority of the Committee and the rapporteur of the case seek to rebalance predatory policies in these settings in order to mitigate the level of conflict. I think man here is on the right track. The two-fold objective of both viable populations and the continuation of traditional off-road industries is maintained. Today, however, there are important adjustments in predatory policies. There is currently a majority that will have effective harvesting of predators, which must mean changes in the management of breeding permits. There is also a majority in favour of strengthening stock registration in order to give greater consensus on the actual situation. This means that the experience of the local population needs to be given greater emphasis. Greater emphasis shall also be placed on prevention measures. It must mean increased resources for this. People's predatory and debilitated quality of life is also recognised as real. That is progress. Nevertheless, it is a cross of thought for me that predators had to come into populous areas before this fear is recognized. It is also an important signal when the majority believes that the core areas of yours in South Norway can be liquidated. It is recognised that zoning and core areas are a difficult management model for both stock management and conflict management. The population of other core areas should be aware of this willingness to rethink this. I am delighted to hear a new report on predatory policies. Here we get a review of the zoning of nuclear areas. Here we must also have a debate on local involvement in stock regulation, for example. management of killing permits. The experiences of the Lierne and the local administration of the bedding permit on the bear are good here. However, pending a notice in 2003, the adjustment rings that I mentioned here are important. These adjustments are necessary for me to vote in favour of the majority position, and I assume that the Council of State is making words of action. There will also be a conflict in future over predatory policies. Prevention is necessary, but also that nutritionists receive e.g.: BU grants to continue their business activities, as indicated by the majority in the post. I am in a way happy that predators have come into populous areas, increasing the need for a new predatory policy – a cross-thinking for those who live with predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e678	I would like to pay tribute to the initiators of the proposals we have before us today and to the rapporteur who has constructively sought to reduce the contradictions between different interest groups. Today's situation is too conflicty, the administration has not been good enough. The losses of sheep and rein have increased, and it may be worth noting the topic of North Trondelag and North Norway's conclusion in a letter to the Ministry of Environment last November: ‘The view is that the aim of the Storting is to ensure a coherent stock of yorks in the North Callot, at least at the level underlying the treatment of St.meld. No 35.On the other hand, we have failed to meet the Storting’s objective of keeping the damage to such a level that it is still possible to operate properly clean-up and sheep farming under acceptable economic conditions.» Where conflicts have arisen, it is largely the grazing animals that have had to give way when moving, early sinking and winding up or conversion of operations. In acute situations, damage traps have proved difficult to effect on bare land. There is a shift in production away from areas with a lot of predatory plague. The situation for several reindeer districts is critical. In Northern Northern Northern countries, several holdings are broken due to predatory losses and have to be allocated substantial resources if they are to recover. But do we have any intention of not getting the herd under control? Moreover, their grazing areas are close to the Swedish border, and the future of the industry is most likely to depend entirely on what is happening on the Swedish side. Then to the individual proposals. It is a long time to wait until the end of 2003 with a new report of predators, but to get a new report of predators by the end of the current year, I do not think it realistic if a person wants a thorough review. On the other hand, it is urgent to take action to ensure that all of the Storting's intentions are met, and I am pleased with the consensus it has in the Committee on that. More resources need to be allocated to stock registers, and local populations and industries should be more closely involved in the registration work in order to gain a more common understanding of population sizes. Withdrawals must be effective and plurality in relation to management plans must be possible at any time where there is a risk of damage to clean and buffer. It is the intention of the Storting to ensure full compensation for the loss of predatory animals. With the evidence requirements laid down by the Directorate for Nature Management, this is very close to the case today. Especially in low fermented areas, it may be difficult to find sufficient cadavers to meet the documentation requirements. The allocation of funds for prevention measures must also be more closely linked to areas where the level of loss is greatest. The wolf has been a lot of focus in the media, but it is important to be aware that the other major predators are responsible for the biggest losses. Nevertheless, the establishment of an administrative area for the wolf is a drastic intervention in the living environment of people, and I believe that the consequences should be clarified before a decision is taken on the management regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e696	The Norwegian predatory debate has largely concerned the relationship between predators and livestock feeding. That's understandable enough because it's relatively conflicty in parts of our country. However, I want to focus on a different relationship, the relationship between predators and people, and then we talk in particular about the relationship between wolf and people. People like to laugh that the relationship between wolf and human is problematic -- yes, we actually feel that people ridicule that there should be any conflict between wolf and human beings. In the debate today, and so far also in the past, it has been said that there are no conflicts between people and wolves in other countries where there are wolves. No, it's not that strange, because in large parts of these countries there are large areas of wilderness. In those areas of Norway where we have wolves today, we have practically no wilderness at all. For example, in inner parts of Eastfold, Akershus and Hedmark, we don't have wild land at all. There are not densely populated areas, but there are people living in branches and torpedoes in the border areas, and there are not many kilometers between settlements. That is why we also have conflicts. People in these regions for generations have used forests and fields for recreation, hunting and fishing. Today, many are afraid to go to the woods in these areas because of the wolf. One would like to laugh at that. But those who do should at least think about when one sees what problems one has in these areas. One has a problem as long as people are afraid to go to the woods. There's no need to be ridiculed. That fear must also be taken seriously. For me, it is in itself a value that people live in rural areas and use forests and fields for recreation, hunting and fishing, as it has been for generations. So I have to say, there's no point in messing this up in the way that, for example, Mr Bastesen said that the wolf was about to depopulate rural areas. There's no reason. But there is also no reason not to try to understand that there is fear in rural areas. Not many days ago we saw on television a flock of eight wolves up in the Østerdalen, almost in the garden of people. If someone doesn't realize that people here have trouble dropping their six-year-old into the woods on the school road the next day, then you won't understand. I want to go so far as to say that I don't think it's possible to reconcile many family groups of wolves with people, at least not in those parts of the country where there are quite a lot of people. Finally, I will make an explanation of vote, so that I do not take the floor afterwards. I will vote in favour of part of the proposals for the minority. In addition, I would like to refer to case No. 3, vote against II of the Committee's recommendation for a decision at the Innst. S. No 111, with a different reason from the SV specified in the setting. My reason is that I am against a geographically demarcated administrative area for wolves. This also makes it pointless to vote in favour of further limiting an area that you are opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e712	Of course, it is almost deadly to take the floor in this case for a representative from Oslo, where the most dangerous animal species in the residential area are some hedgehogs and two a little cloudy neighboring cogs on the fourth floor. But that does not mean, of course, that one does not have a right to believe that Norway in this policy should have some principles. I think it would be almost a scandal if a country -- where there are very few people, and where we have a lot of space -- were unable to care for any predatory species. It would be a failure statement for me, and it would also be a failure statement for the rest of the world. And at least it will be difficult to defend it against perhaps more populous areas, for example. India or parts of Africa, where you have significantly more dangerous predators than in Norway, but to which we choose with travel agencies to see, on safari. Probably we're also very concerned about protecting these animal species. If we are to establish some important principles here, it should be that biodiversity should live in Norway and also in the rest of the world. This does not mean that it is not problematic to implement it, but one should not let do it for that reason. What I think we should discuss today, and which is our big dilemma, is that in a short time we probably have to take out one or two families of an already threatened population in Norway, I'm talking about wolves. To establish some facts in relation to the wolf, it's like both you and eagle take far more sheep than the wolf does, but they're not people afraid of, they're something stronger and aren't as threatened as the wolf is. In addition, in the case of sheep: without insulting anyone, there have been no more sheep in Norway at any time in Norway than it is today. So this is not a endangered species. That, on the other hand, is the wolf, and we must take that into account. With regard to the use of outland – now I am probably raising parts of the heath bench – I must be allowed to say that the biggest threat in Norway to the use of outland today, I do not think it is wolf, but the satellite antenna. It prevents far more children and young people from going in and using fields and forests than predators do. If I – even if I live in Oslo – go out into the woods, I'd like a biodiversity to look at. Why else would I go into the woods if it wasn't because we've managed to take care of animal life? Animal life is the reason why people want to go out into the woods, whether it's birds, wolves or whatever it is. We have to meet some international commitments in this country. We are one of the richest and most resource-rich countries in the world and cannot come into a situation where we become the greatest predators of all. My claim is that the biggest threat to people in Norway today is still people – and not wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e728	As the rapporteur-in-Office, it has been interesting to follow the debate that we have been through and that we are about to conclude. I don't intend to challenge either the Hedemark bench, Eastfold, Uppland or whoever it might be. I think we have got a bit of the debate as expected. It was so predictable, but it is important that all the views that have emerged today came from this pulpit. What I'm left with as a main impression is that a majority in this room with a relatively large weight joins the main prerequisites at the bottom, the decisions that the majority stand behind, and the comments in the motions that we should look at some things again, while at the same time pursuing the main objective. That there is someone in this room – perhaps especially the Central Party’s Lukewarm – who looks at it all as two steps back and one step forward, I think it’s my starting point if you’re reading the setting from behind, or if you’re reading it from behind. I think Joy has read it over and over again. It is a step forward that an overall increase says that the human aspects of predator management must now be taken seriously. It is, in fact, quite historic – since the Central Party was previously involved in history – that we are talking about decisions in which the Stortinget instructs the Government to design measures to meet fears and other human aspects of predator management. That's new. And I have to say that what has been the challenge in this process, in a matter that is so difficult – and I hope I have all seen – has been to find a balance point where everyone feels that they have got something. Everyone has got something, but everyone has not got everything. There is a very important basis for reaching as broad a consensus as possible, which in turn can help to mitigate the level of conflict, which is the absolute overall objective, also on my part, as rapporteur of the case. Then I am pleased to note that everyone wants this report of predators – we have had a little disagreement about it. I think it is important that a report on predators — when it comes — should be based on the best possible experience and that it should not be the result of urgent work in the Government. Therefore, I think it is right that we wait until 2003 and then the document is presented in a proper and good way. As far as the main objectives are concerned, I take note that today's big business is that we are going to have viable populations of the four large predators. No one has mentioned anything else. It is firm and confirms what the Stortinget has said repeatedly, even since 1997, when we dealt with the report on predatory policies. I think I'm fine. Then there is one main challenge, on which the disagreement goes, namely how we manage these populations within our goal of viable populations. It is an important signal, and it is a debate that we would like to take in the context of a communication that comes by 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e745	I understand that I said that this is one step forward and two back in the case of predator management, and I believe that it is really a step backwards in the way of the view of the administration of the people. It's a historical retreat if you look at how the majority of the Stortinges view their role and their responsibilities. With regard to the management plans, stock descriptions and decisions taken in this context, the majority of them state that: ‘this type of management plan requires a competence that the Storting does not have enough. This applies both in relation to the level of viable wolf populations in Norway, the assessment of management models and their follow-up’. This is not least a discharge of responsibility! I also believe that there is a hole in what kind of rule of people we're going to have. It was said here that the local point of view was not taken into account, and that democracy had not worked properly in this matter. It also does not work properly in relation to what we should address, and what kind of decisions we should take here. So you put this in the hands of bureaucrats and experts – so-called. I believe that those with this problem are the greatest experts in predatory relations. But it's got to be. However, the figures are doubted when it comes to, for example: population registration, and the majority believe that there is a good enough point of view to change management in the core areas of yours. To the extent that thanks and price for it – but there is no connection in these matters. I think it is bad that we should have such a disclaimer in predatory policy as this is being put up to. There's been a lot of talk about quality of life and fear. I won't say much more about it, but I think it's bad that part of that debate is trying to be ridiculed. Fear of both wolf and bear is there, we know, and it gives a much worse quality of life in these districts, even though neither sheep nor sheep are owned or have financial interests in this context. The advantage of the districts is the land resources, especially grazing areas, and the recreational value of the land will increase. But decommissioning this resource use will eventually mean depopulation of the districts. That's what I want to say. Finally, I have to say to the case-rapporteur, Mr Rahm, who says that what is in the documents is a – historically – meeting people's interests in this predatory conflict: I think I agree more with the representative Odd Holten of the Christian People's Party in the way he described the majority's position. He said that the majority position is a word without action. Finally, the representative, Hornslien, confirmed to some extent what I have suspected for a long time that predatory policies are our environmental policy offspring. He said that we have to hold at least some international agreements in this country!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e768	I would like to comment on some of the questions raised to me during the debate. I see this debate as a clear expression of the strong commitment of the Storting in the matter of predators. We also experience a very strong commitment to the predatory debate in Norwegian society. We are serious about that, and it will continue to shape the debate in this area. I think the majority's position on the proposals we are considering today is good because it is balanced. It gives us a clear mandate to take action in the short term. And I would say to those who have not been so enthusiastic about the position of the majority, that as I understand many of the statements, it is about measures that will also be of great importance to them. In concrete terms, I would like to mention what has been done with regard to the law of the game. We've had easier access to damage traps, emphasising stock registration so that we can control the development of predators, and we want to renew the management of yerv, which is not least taken up by representatives of North Norway, where there will be a basis for increased felling in time. It is all work on prevention — it is not at all such that they have failed to show good results; on the contrary, we have good results, especially in the areas of sheep and predatory measures. We are working on more local responsibility in predator policy, which will be important to many, and working to deal with fear by spreading real knowledge about how to live with predators in Norwegian nature, is being taken seriously. I would also like to mention the concrete proposal on which the Stortinget has been concerned in the case of state hunters' corps. All of this needs to be done in the short term to provide a basis for the principles that we are to work on in the longer term, both in terms of impact assessment and in terms of a new wholesale notification. And I'm absolutely sure we'll have ample opportunity to discuss this along the way in Stortinget while the government is working on a new report of predators. In concrete terms, I have been asked about the threatening behaviour of predators, and what should be the basis for harm. As I said in my post, the game law that Stortinget changed not so long ago, adds up to a lesser chance of injuring, how threatening behavior will be included as part of this. I don't think here in this room I'm going to go into defining the specific case, but this is going to be a damage case within any administrative area. Any fallout outside the administrative area will be a different matter and will not be part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e781	When Gro Harlem Brundtland led the United Nations Commission on the Environment and Development, she launched the slogan «Think Globally, act locally». It is a rule that applies in all environmental policies, even when we are discussing the management of predators. Taking care of biodiversity is one of the major global environmental challenges we face. Norway has already committed itself through international agreements. Then not only the Government, but also we in Stortinget, have a responsibility for it being followed up. We must also act locally. At the same time, we are supposed to take care of the district industries in Norway. That is why we have a broad majority in favour of differentiated management, where predators have stronger protection within the core areas, while in other areas we have opened up to kill predators. We're going to take care of the sheep industry. But I think there's a reason to remind you that other reasons than predatory droppings are a much bigger problem for the sheep industry. I think there's a reason to repeat the numbers: c. 130 000 sheep are lost every year, 100 000 of them for reasons other than predators, but there is very little political debate on how to prevent this huge loss for sheep nutrition. ==References== So 30,000 is taken by predators. Almost half of these 30,000 are taken by you, but then there's also a broad consensus that we should take action to counteract the damage to yours. Most people have talked about wolves today. 800 of the 130 000 sheep lost every year are killed by wolves. Equally many are actually taken by eagles, but no one has talked about today. In today's debate, many people have pointed out that we are going to take people's fears seriously, and we are going to. But at the same time, at the end of the debate, I would like to remind you that we must also take on the real responsibility of both the Government and the Stortinge to take care of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e795	Per Roar Bredvold has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e798	That this is an important matter, where interests and views are many, this debate has shown. In the case of replacements or alternatives to predatory damage, only some mention has been made of loss of bumps, but there are also other major losses. Here you can mention the loss of hunting interests, with the ringing effects it has. The meat value itself can be mentioned here, but more important is the sale of the hunting rights themselves, which for the districts means many millions in losses if it becomes uninteresting. Or what is to be paid in compensation for a right of gravitation, which without buff is zero worth? Or what's to be paid for a hunting dog, torn in half by a wolf? Or what should a degraded quality of life be replaced by? Or, finally, what are job losses to be replaced by and by? That way you can keep ramming up, and you get an amount that's greater than we in our wildest imagination can imagine. In the case of emergency protection, it must be possible for a more rapid and simpler procedure to take out the pests. Therefore, it is necessary that the decision-making process can be taken at a level as close as possible to the injured.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e807	If I heard correctly, the Council of State said that she should take this debate with the seriousness of its merit. I really hope, then, that you worry about what has been said by the Storing in this matter, also from the minority. In her speech, the Council of State said that she would use objective knowledge to mitigate the level of conflict known to be out there. Then my question is, what is the Council of State really thinking about? For what we have experienced to date in terms of information and prevention measures, some practical measures, which have been good, such as wolf hedges in Eastfold and also the exchange of pasturage in Hedmark, are also spending an incredible amount of money on running a photo exhibition about wolf, which is very pretty, but which does not provide any facts or objective knowledge, and you also use TV films. Then my question is: Could it not be possible to allocate these millions of people who are now using centrally, to those municipalities that really have problems, and who know how to deploy prevention measures and upgrade knowledge among people? We are also very concerned about this with killing. Because when you go to the stage of firing two wolf flocks outside of the core area, we ask questions at our disposal, which are within the core area, about the basis of the killing, and what you put in this with "threatful" and "harmful" because it becomes extremely important to us. As I see it, there will still be wolves both in Rendalen and in Stor-Elvdal, because I don't think the wolf understands that it can't go from Sweden to Norway. There'll still be animals there, and there'll still have to be shot off animals to dampen this relationship. It can be accepted, but then we also need to know what can be used for an extraction of wolves that are threatening or that are pests in us. For as it has now been, it has not been easy to take out a damage wolf at all. We know the behavior of hybrid wolves, and we know how problematic it was at all to figure out that you thought it could be hybrids. It was far from easy to accept for it in the department or in the directorate. These are the issues we're concerned with. And another thing: I think maybe the conflict would be dampened if you could just launch a license hunt. Sweden is about to introduce it, and there are many others who have it. In the context of the gauntlet conflict, we immediately noticed that when quota hunting was introduced, the conflict was immediately reduced. That is why I would ask that we also look at this with regard to the hunting of wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e818	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, four. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e831	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e838	During the debate, John Dale has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to take its own decisions, and before the Government takes its decisions on the matter, to inform the Storting of the implications of the implementation of the new wolf management area for the outlanding industries, resource use, ecology, animal protection and well-being of local communities, and also to do good for economic purposes, including the extent of future substitutes.’ Alternatively, I will be represented in the recommendation and the proposal of the Progress Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e870	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e889	The Progress Party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e903	During the debate, Mr Korsberg has presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to terminate the core areas of wild game.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary changes in order to achieve a more effective take-off of wild game that harms or creates threatening situations [[injury]] Proposal No. 3 sounds ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary changes to allow for more flexible hunting times and methods that take more account of local conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e929	Proposal No. 4 from the Progress Party and the Centre Party reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the total costs of current wild game management where both research, damage and prevention costs are incurred.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e956	During the debate, Mr Dale has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting a proposal for a new wolf management area.’ Alternatively, I will be represented in the recommendation and the proposal of the Progress Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e988	The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-30.ana.ud2512e1021	During the debate, Mr Korsberg presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a new notification on the management of predators by the end of 2001 at the latest.’
