ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e15	Applications for sick leave are submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen as from the evening meeting on Monday 23 April and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Brit Strandrud, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e30	Brit Strandrud is present and will take the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e44	The Labour Party considered that a review of asylum and immigration policy was absolutely necessary and asked the current government to do so in the context of the 2000 budget. We were simply not good enough in this area. It worked badly for the immigrants who came here and stayed in reception for too long. It worked poorly because very many of those who were in reception did not have the opportunity to work and be active. It worked badly because the municipalities did not accept those who had received a residence permit. And finally, and not least, it did not work well for Norwegian society because passivity and late integration led to many more remaining passive social welfare recipients in their lifetime. They could have been poor Norwegian, and they had problems being integrated into Norwegian society. The aim of the Labour Party was and is that the newly arrived refugees should manage themselves as quickly as possible, including financially, so that they can actively participate in society in the same way as most people else in the country. And we need them. We really need all the labour we can get right now, and here we have a great potential. Some of what the Stortinget asked for, has already been completed, including compensation to the municipalities, which increased significantly during the budgetary procedure last autumn. New procedures to speed up the handling of certain asylum cases have been implemented. And it's become much easier to work while the application is being processed. All of this is good. But that's not enough. The Labour Party believes that the most important challenge we have today is the pace of dealing with asylum issues. And I have faith that the Council of State can do something about it. That we have not been particularly successful with immigration policy, we can see from the unemployment figures among these groups. Today, the availability of immigrants is almost three times higher than that of the rest of the population. And even if unemployment in Norway goes down, the unemployment rate among immigrants rises, among other things. in Eastfold. A refugee consultant in a larger municipality told me a few weeks ago that new refugees were very eager at the beginning. That's why it's so stupid that new refugees come in the summer, because then nothing happens. Then all integration stops because the teachers have vacations. According to him, the challenges are the following: Those who come may be too little professionally. That's what they learn best when they're at work. We have a system of passive support. Competence still takes too long to be approved. Many lack evidence of real competence. The integration process is too late. There are too many prejudices among employers, and red tape jobs too slowly. The Government takes over most of these points in the notification and the Committee follows up in the opinion. We need all the labour we can currently get, including unskilled labour. Some receptions are very good at getting people to work, but there are differences. All the receptions must be just as good as helping those who live there to learn Norwegian and social skills while they can work. There is no reason for them to be inactive all day – not just a few hours of Norwegian education. It is nice to hear that after a very short time, Aeta's temporary rental agency reports that renting is 15 p.m., and that they experience this as a good resource. And it produces lasting effects. A lot of people get permanent employment. There's something about showing you what you're doing. In particular, this is important in the absence of papers. That is why there are also a number of points of light for the integration of refugees and immigrants. They become self-held and can live on their own income and pay their taxes in line with the rest of the population. That is what most of the parties on the Stortinget want, and that is what the Advance Party is so afraid of should happen. In the end, I want to say that it's not like Carl I. Hagen says that there are few of those who are in reception who are working. On receiving, as I know, 70 out of 170 are working in businesses around the state. The rest is on training, and the kids go to school. But with the model of the Progress Party, where many are to be accommodated, I realize that there is also a need for own workshops at the receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e72	The overall picture of Norwegian asylum and refugee policy today reflects chaos and lack of control and control, from management to government. UDI has lost its grip. The procedure period has become too long, and several of the 435 municipalities in the country no longer have the capacity to settle the large number of asylum seekers and quota refugees granted residence in Norway. Too few refugees and immigrants come into productive work in Norway. Language training works too poorly. The return of those who have been denied their asylum applications is ineffective, and the expenditure on Norwegian asylum and refugee policies has become very high gradually. All this and more, the Progress Party has warned against for a number of years without being heard by the other parties on the Stortinget at all. One of the main reasons for the problems we are seeing today is simply that it has arrived and still comes too high a number of asylum seekers and refugees to Norway, combined with the humanitarian residence of every third asylum seeker, and the conduct of a very liberal family reunification policy in the country. The Progress Party will therefore, with good reason, significantly tighten up asylum policy in order to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Norway. This results in a shorter duration of treatment. We achieve better housing opportunities in municipalities when the number is reduced, and thus we will also be better able to do better integration work. The promotion party will thus set a ceiling of 1 000 people per year. the year as a whole for refugees and persons residing on a humanitarian basis. The Progress Party will also limit the appeals for asylum rejection and clearly groundless asylum applications. We also believe that asylum seekers with unacceptable behaviour should be placed in closed reception and also refuse asylum applications to applicants who commit crime in Norway while waiting for their applications to be dealt with. The progress team will also introduce mandatory DNA testing in family reunion cases and teach immigrants only Norwegian in schools rather than spending time on their mother tongue. It is not surprising that there is a lack of Norwegian knowledge among some immigrants in Norway when they learn Urdu and Swahili instead of Norwegian. In addition, we will set up a state refugee agency that will have overall responsibility for this whole area, and the Progress Party also proposes to strengthen the integration grant scheme for municipalities. When the majority will not listen to any of the proposals made by the Progress Party this time, it is very regrettable. We see how wrong the policies of the other parties themselves have gone wrong for a number of years. This lack of willingness to listen to the Progress Party will only result in the debate that we have here today, on the problems of Norwegian asylum and refugee policy, providing the basis for repetition exercises for the Stortinget in the future, in an uncertain time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e85	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e88	There are eight proposals from the representative Vidar Kleppe and myself that we are asking for separate voting on. Proposals are in line with the challenges facing Norway in the future, but there are also initiatives to clarify differences between the specific asylum policy in Norway and other Schengen countries. The differences that the political majority wants to partially continue and reinforce will have a greater impact on the influx of asylum seekers to this country than before. Further tightening in Europe, for example, will lead to increased pressure on Norway, so that asylum policy is more than ever crucial for the presence of asylum seekers in Norway. For this reason, it is essential that the country’s responsible politicians pursue a more sobering policy that emphasises the intention of the new Dublin Convention. The agreement shall reduce the flow of asylum seekers travelling illegally in Europe. It would be an unreasonable policy to continue the clever and naive line that the Norwegian authorities have been taking for far too long, giving thousands of lives on so-called humanitarian grounds. An important point of the agreement is that it only provides an opportunity for persons to seek asylum and not opportunities to apply for residence in other countries included in the agreement. Under the Dublin Convention, the country where asylum seekers first arrived is responsible for examining asylum applications. It is up to Norway to have a sound and orderly treatment system and to reject groundless attempts to obtain asylum. I am sure that the political majority does not see the responsibility of such an agreement, and the negative consequences of the small-scale refugee and asylum policy pursued in this country give to a small country such as Norway. If Norway pursues a slightly up-to-date and old-fashioned asylum policy vis-à-vis Europe, the result will be, as experience shows, that asylum seekers often apply to the country where there is the greatest opportunity for asylum to be granted, or where economic and social support schemes are best. So the convention has made it even more important to make the right first attempt. It should not be the case in Norwegian asylum policy that asylum seekers feel that it is easier to obtain a residence permit in this country, and that it is much easier to obtain other rights, such as the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Workers' Party in particular, with which they are involved, for example. the system of family reunifications or the special needs of women, as referred to by the Council of State. It is important that all applicants for asylum be registered with fingerprints so that asylum seekers who operate with different identities may be exposed. It is true that asylum seekers are automatically refused in Norway when their applications have been rejected by another country or that they are refused when another country has their application for treatment. Otherwise, I refer to and address the proposals that I have referred to, and I want them to be taken up for separate voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e101	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e104	I will try to spend a little more time on the case of lone minor asylum seekers. I am very surprised at the wording of the case, and as the Council of State repeated, namely that the use of child protection in such cases is clientising children. I believe that this is a wrong view of what child protection is. When, in addition to saying that you can use foster homes instead, I am somewhat surprised that a person who has been Minister for Children and Family Affairs does not know that foster homes are a system administered under child protection. So this isn't about clientization. These are the needs of these children to be assessed and met in line with the needs of Norwegian children who are without parents or superiors, i.e. Norwegian children who are in exactly the same situation. These children shall be treated equally. There should be no discrimination against them. I need the Council of State to clarify its views on child protection and on why they are so opposed to such equality. The intention of the whole proposal is that the offer of lone minors should be better and so good that they actually do better when they come out on their own. That's what's the whole point. Child protection has a whole set of measures they can use in relation to Norwegian children, and of course they can also be used in relation to lone minor asylum seekers. You have to get as needed. That's the principle. But it has to be a quality equal assessment, whether the child is Norwegian or foreign. That's the principle. It surprises me that the government is not in it. What is also amazing is, as said, the government's mention of child protection and of those who need help from there for some reason. That these should be just people with problems, and that it's clientising people, at least SV reacts very strongly, and believes that if we have a child protection that stamps people that way, we have to quickly and immediately make sure to change that child protection, because that can't be the case. Child protection shall be of assistance both for parents and for children. So to SV's view of increased use of foster homes. There is, of course, a scheme within the framework of child protection. It is because we believe that this is a good arrangement, and that we strongly disagree with the direct placement system that some children now experience, without decision on child protection, and that it happens to families where the follow-up is weak in relation to what is needed. It has been documented in the Council's replies to the Committee's questions on this subject that this follow-up is different and that it does not ensure these offers of good quality. That's why we're interested in quality offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e117	It is gratifying that we should have a discussion on Norwegian immigration and refugee policy, but I must admit immediately that I do not think the discussion and debate have made any progress in these areas. There are well-known issues we are discussing, which the majority in the main hall over many periods and different governments at all have not addressed and have done nothing about. They should have listened and listened to what the Norwegian people are saying. They should also play on teams with Kommune-Norge, who have a lot of problems with those who come to the municipalities, who are being outsourced. I don't think we're ever going to succeed if we don't take the municipalities seriously much more than what the Council of State has put up through its proposals and input on these important issues. The main problem with Norwegian immigration, refugee and asylum policies – everyone says, and it's cross-political – is that we have far too long processing time. But why is nothing done about the trial period? One reorganizer, one shifts the responsibility from the police to the denominator, to others to deal with it, who do not have the necessary competence built up in their organisation. And the remainder gets longer and the suffering gets bigger for those who come in, because they can't figure out their status and their situation. That is why I think it would have been in place, as I and the representative Stang have suggested, that we had now listened and listened to Kommune-Norge and the Norwegian people and took an advisory referendum on Norwegian asylum and refugee policy. Let the people say what they mean. Now we're facing a big decision for the fall. Then a simple and simple combination could be found. But the problem is also when we ignore the procedure: what people are coming to our country, and what treatment do they receive? When the majority of the population is not even willing to automatically expel criminals who have received a sentence in Norway in more than three months, it is no wonder that people are surprised. It is also not surprising that people are surprised when the government doesn't even want to have forced HIV tests to find out if the people who come to Norway have a fatal infection with them or none. Last week we were able to read the latest statistics and figures that showed that the number of HIV infected in 2000 has increased dramatically. Many of those who have come to the country have these diseases with them. In order to take a picture that some might think is a bit offensive, we can see what else has happened in Europe. When it comes to foot-and-mouth disease and other things, there are big things going on from all governments. But in the case of a deadly infection such as HIV and AIDS, this government is doing far too little, even though the Prime Minister will do something about vaccination internationally. And that's good enough. Otherwise, I think that the debate that is going on today testifies that there is a lot that has been undone in getting a real immigration and asylum policy based on having a helping hand towards those who are meeting the requirements, but we are going to reject those who are nagging and lying about their false identity in order to get to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e130	I feel the need for clarification from the Council of State on three points, for the first when it comes to the characteristics of children receiving child protection. She does not want to receive the status of a child protection institution for single minor asylum seekers because the young are then labeled as a problem child and made a client. I find reason to remind you that our intention, what is behind this proposal, is actually the opposite. It is to ensure the same level of security, stability and networks for single minor asylum seekers with whom child protection is currently to be addressed to children in Norway without parents. Today, the average upswing time in reception for a single minor is eight months — longer than six and a half months, as is the case for asylum seekers or others — a time of changing staff and changing arrangements, without the necessary continuity and follow-up, and with a greater risk of stamping as a problem child and client in a later phase. Our intention to strengthen the use of fosterheim is precisely to create stability and security. Point two relates to the alarming messages that now come when it comes to the practice of Foreign Affairs – initially launched as a People's Jury – has. Here are strong reactions in today's newspaper, both in VG from Professor Arnulf Kolstad and in Dagbladet from the leader of the law committee of the Association for Asylum and Foreign Affairs. Is the Council of State happy? If not, what does it do? It's about the reversing practice when collective, temporary protection comes to an end. Those who will then return have the same right to seek asylum as others. There are also alarming messages in relation to the assessments made in relation to sick children and minorities. Is the Council of State closer to and at least here giving the possibility that backstretching will be maintained for an appeal period, so that the individual has a real right to have his heel assessed before leaving, and is she looking at the alarming practice that is being reported?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e141	I would like to make a few brief comments on a few things in the setting that I did not have time to mention in my main post earlier. This is primarily the question of how to establish qualification coverage or the detection of so-called real competence among asylum seekers and refugees. The second relates to a similar theme, namely the treatment of the recognition of their previous education. This was one of the important issues when, four years ago, an integration message was dealt with here in the Storting, and the very two things were a high priority. But it turns out that eventually it has actually happened relatively little in relation to the objectives of a unanimous increase at that time. We see this as a problem not only in relation to refugees and asylum seekers, but also in relation to labour immigration, where we have highly qualified nurses in this country walking as assistants around because the system is too large and too difficult to recognise their education and competence. And not least in the case of this special course, which is really about Norwegian bureaucracy, for them to be within Norwegian rules and Norwegian proceedings, it is offered so rarely and at such a time that sometimes it may be difficult to participate. It is quite clear that it is the Committee's wish that both of these aspects be taken into account, including the need to organise something, more specifically in the field of vocational training, a national network or some national centres designated as regards the detection of real competences, in order to enable county councils that do not have sufficiently well-developed facilities or to use it in relation to refugees and asylum seekers in order to demonstrate real competence. In both of these circumstances, the Stortinget has asked for a return to the budget for 2002 with a status of work on the budget for the autumn. This is probably one of the most significant in order to achieve more effective integration. There are quite a number of stories about what people perceive by the education of a person when the person is quite poor in Norwegian. And then it might have been a good idea to try them in front of machines and equipment, so that you could actually show that it wasn't the vocabulary that made it difficult to get it. Then I have a comment on several of the contributions that have come from current and former members of the Progress Party in the debate. I hope that in some areas they will be allowed to keep their posts back and forth here in the Grand Duchy, and that the majority will not go in that way. Of course, if there are no refugees, there is no need for any integration policy. But I think it's scary to think about the perspective that if the policy that we have here had been practiced in 1940, a Jew who had participated in an illegal demonstration in front of the German Embassy would have been deported back to Germany and the gas chambers. It should be in perspective that there might be other situations that, in the judgment of history, would seem as strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e152	I noticed what the last speaker said, that there are people in Norwegian policy who are standing alone in asylum policy. I have no faith in that. I just notice that we have an agreement called the Dublin Convention, which applies from 1 April. There are quite as clear guidelines as Norwegian enlargement should follow gradually, including the representative of Solberg. I think she might change her mind as time goes on. Criminal and UDI asylum applications do not consider that there is any reason to flee, should be decided as soon as possible with expulsion without waiting for answers from other countries. This is not surprising; it is also stated in the Dublin Convention. It must be stated that there should not be full freedom of movement for asylum seekers but that the Convention should be followed, where only nationals of the Member States can move freely in the relevant European countries. One must assume that a renewed commitment to asylum policy must not mean becoming so global that one is nowhere, or that one has no affiliation and roots anywhere in the world. That's the policy I feel in this room that the majority is running. I also think you mix the cards here. The need for labour is being drawn into the debate on asylum and refugee policy. It is in my opinion to destroy the whole debate. It is not possible to confuse seeking asylum with the labour that this country may need to obtain from abroad. So I would like to ask the Council of State a question: Has the Government taken sufficient account of the Dublin Convention to which we have acceded and which applies from 1 April, and to what extent is it preserved in the document we have now presented on the table? I just want to briefly quote some of the suggestions we're making. We will give the police the opportunity to openly reject groundless asylum seekers at the Norwegian borders. We want criminals foreign nationals automatically expelled from the Kingdom, too always. We want to wind up the system of language teaching. We want a proposal to grant a residence permit only after 10 years of residence in Norway. We also want to wind up the new foreign subject, which at least costs $30 million. kr a year, which actually helps prevent us from having a smooth procedure. Many of the political decisions taken here at present will lead to a deterioration in the UDI procedure rather than an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e166	I feel the need first to say that the post I heard here from the representative Kleppe represents a human vision from which I take a very strong distance. Then I want to answer the questions I got from the representatives Andersen and Kleppa, about why we believe that the reception of single minors should not be given the status of child protection institutions. It is not because there are no young people among lone minors in need of child protection. Of course, they should get help if they need it. But we think it's better to use the existing child protection institutions or foster homes, if that's what's the best solution, rather than rehabilitate the receptions of child protection institutions. It's simply because we're not talking about a uniform group of children and young people here, but we're talking about children and young people with different needs for help and support. Then we believe that this must be what is crucial for what offers we offer them. That is why we do not think it right to say that child protection institutions should be the receptions for the lone minors. In addition, this is the way the Storting agrees, that we have to make sure that the time in reception is as short as possible. It is now possible that there will be a majority of too many concrete things to improve the situation of single minors, through a strengthened structure, better staffing and better supervision. And we've also recently set up a separate department in Florø for the very youngest single minors, who we also have hopes can be something more. But I'm a little surprised by the representatives Andersen and Kleppa, who represent the SV and the Central Party, when they say, on the one hand, that they're so worried that kids sit on reception for a long time – that's a concern the government share the most – but when the same parties actually have the opportunity to do something about it, by supporting a housing model that will make us manage to get the kids into the municipalities in a much faster way, they say no. Because there's only a Christian People's Party here in the hall, as I understand it, who are committed to supporting the housing model to which the Communes' Central Association has also joined. In relation to what was taken up by the representative Kleppa about the foreign subject, I think it is too early to pass a judgment on it today. I just feel the need to clarify that when it comes to issues where there is no significant doubt, they can be handled by the head of staff and the secretariat. That's why, as I see it, it's natural that the conversion rate in such cases is lower than for matters that are dealt with in the denominator. However, it is also the case that in cases where there is doubt or disagreement about the actual circumstances surrounding the applicant’s explanation, the applicant shall be called to explain his case. I think we have to give you a little bit more time, because it's also about what matters it's dealt with so far, in relation to how often there's been a need to call the whole denominator or one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e177	That the Council of State takes a distance from my human vision without her knowing me and knowing what I stand for, that she relies on wishful thinking, gets to be her problem. I stand for my human vision, and I have a view of justice. I have respect for human dignity. But unlike the state council, I don't want to introduce people who are criminals, people who declare false identity, and people who are involved in human smuggling. I will not allow them to stay in Norway. Nor do I want to impose Norwegian citizenship on cheap sales, as the majority in this store do, by allowing people who have committed serious criminal acts to have Norwegian citizenship when they have enough time to live in Norway. I believe that a minimum requirement must be that they have lived here for ten years, and that they have not committed criminal acts, in order to be «on the question», as the Swedes say, to be granted Norwegian citizenship. And it is a political disagreement that must be allowed in a democracy. There are many out in Norwegian society who share my views on this, far into the Council of State's own party. But the Council of State who is in position and who is responsible for this policy and the implementation of the proposals that are being promoted has a different view, and when she has no arguments to make, she comes up with such descriptions of me – and it says more about the Council of State than about me. Regarding the problem we also see internationally, where we in Norway do not make the same demands, among other things. When it comes to forced HIV testing of people coming to the country, I think it's alarming. It is one of the largest epidemics worldwide. I don't know if that's right, but when, according to the media, one out of five e.g. in South Africa is HIV or AIDS infected, it is quite serious. And when we see the problems we have internationally with this, it has to be from the pulpit of the Storting and in contexts where we're discussing these challenges, to point out that here is the mass that's gone, and here we have to take our precautions in the country that we're going to serve as elected representatives. So the representative Kleppe has a good conscience, and he has a very good human vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e184	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e187	For the first time, I want to confirm that SV is against the new housing scheme. It might be possible to read the notes like that, but it's not true. We support the new settlement system, but we have some additions that we think are better. Then I want to ask the Council of State again whether it is such that Norwegian children who are without parents and who are placed in an institution in Norway are placed in institutions that are not recognised as child protection institutions, as we do with foreign children coming here. I think the answer to that is no. There is this discrimination SV is busy getting away. This is to assess the needs of these children in line with those of Norwegian children. That's the whole principle. I understand that it is a bit difficult to communicate this, but I repeat it again: there must be a requirement for the placement and residence to take place after a decision in the Children's Protection Act, and the same requirements must be imposed for such accommodation as for Norwegian children. These are the principles of the SV and the Centre's policy, and I am amazed that the Government does not agree with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e194	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e197	For the sake of order, it was made clear from my post and from the Central Party's comments in this setting that we are positive to the initiative taken by the KS and the Department for a new establishment scheme. We're wondering about this national selection that's going to be conducting here – a quarterly distribution. We've also expressed that in the notes. I will admit that the Council of State did not get what I said about this. Then I also have to admit that I was also not remarkable enough here at the end, and I therefore find reason to repeat my last question in order to get a possible confirmation of whether the Council of State sees the need to be somewhat more liberal in relation to the points I pointed out when it comes to repatriation, and the difficult practices that are now established in relation to Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e204	As regards the return to Kosovo, the Government complies with the UNHCR recommendation. We're also doing that in relation to the situation we have now. We do not intend to add to any other or new policy, either in terms of return support or in relation to appeals. And then this is the way the representative is sure to know, that if you have the right to return support and want to have that money with you, you have to go out at the latest one month after the rejection in UDI. Everyone has the right to complain. But if you're going to have the right to keep the money, you need someone who knows how to go to Kosovo. The government does not intend to change that policy, and I hope that the return is as smooth and proper as possible. And the answer is, as it's been provided for also by the Bondevik government, from day one that the majority of those we're talking about here have to expect to go home. And then I think it's in everyone's interest that it happens as quickly as possible and in a real way. And then we take them into account as the UN High Commissioner says we shouldn't return, and in the areas we should be careful about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e209	Jørn L. Stang has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e212	I have to be relatively short. I tried initially to ask a relatively simple question. Norway has acceded to the Dublin Convention. My question, then, is: to what extent has the Dublin Convention been respected in the matter we are now discussing? I have not received an answer to that. We know that there is a restrictive asylum policy to which we have joined. To what extent has the Government taken care of just that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e219	There were a lot of questions to answer in three minutes. But the representative Stang mentioned, I have responded to the Stortinget earlier. It is in this way that the Dublin Convention, in the same way as the Schengen cooperation, does not in any way prevent Norway from pursuing the asylum and refugee policy that we believe is right, and the policy of mass destruction and government. I would like to stress that the Government attaches great importance to the fact that we should have both close and committed international cooperation on asylum and refugee policy issues, including with our European partners. But there is nothing in the Dublin Convention to prevent us from pursuing the asylum and refugee policy that Norway believes is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e226	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2665]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e240	: Some comments on this matter: Since the new Planning and Building Act was adopted in 1995, we have had it for discussion many times. The background has been the adjustments proposed by the various governments and also the fact that individual parties have made concrete proposals for changes. Some adjustments have also been made, but the overall evaluation of the law will come later. That's when we get the full review of the experience of the law's amendments and an assessment of whether it's the regulations or the law that might need to be adjusted a little more. As you can see from the setting, the suggestions included in Document No. 8:59, much in accordance with the views the Government has worked after. But not on all points. In particular, it concerns the proposal to increase the use of notification for actions with a base area of less than 300 m2. Increased use of messages is the right way to go, as indicated by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. But the majority of the committee seems to be going a long way in saying that almost all the construction of single dwellings should be done in the light of a communication. The background is that it could be at the expense of relevant and reasonable considerations that neighbours and other interested parties should be able to demand. There are also different points of view within the Committee on the obligation for municipalities to initiate electronic construction proceedings. In the opinion of the majority, municipalities must decide for themselves. We believe that the benefits of electronic construction processes will be able to assess the municipalities themselves. Rather, we need to have views on how long it is normal for a municipality to spend on handling a construction case. The majority here refer to the letter from the Council of State, where she clearly says that time is now ripe to assess time limits in the proceedings, in addition to the four-week rule adopted in 1995, which concerns simple cases. Similarly, the majority believe that it is appropriate to assess whether a reduction or cancellation of construction fee should be considered if the municipality does not comply with the deadline. With regard to the proposal for simplifications in the Approval Catalogue, we point out that this catalogue has now been published in its third edition, that it was removed by the last revision. 30 pst. of the codes and the introduction of separate codes for total enterprise prices. The state's building technical office is now working on a new publication. Since so many of these proposals are in line with what the Government is continually working on, I point out that Document No. 8:59 is proposed attached to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e259	In 1995, the Stortinget made a relatively modest and, at least, not very controversial change in the planning and building laws. This led to new regulations that have destroyed common single-dwelling cities with several tens of thousands of dollars. The regulations, explanation of the regulations, and explanation for the explanation bring with them an unwieldy everyday life for a poor builder. The Christian People's Party is aware that this legislation must be simplified. Something has been done – a lot has been done – but more remains. One has to take proper action, because it's so difficult in our society to turn around a bureaucratic system. I am pleased that the Government takes the issue seriously and meets most of the proposals in Document No. 8:59. It is necessary not to drown the many individuals in the construction industry in paper and bureaucracy – literally the number goes below. Reports are many that such small businesses have given up, and that is a pity. Some people get a job with the big companies, but this means that the competition will be smaller. This is actually the prototype of laws that make the need for a simpler Norway intruder. I have personally filled out paper for a capable carpenter, because his might actually goes on building houses. And I can't. But I can fill out paper and form. Most likely, these papers do not improve their security or their quality. It was just there already, in advance. But the paper mill is cracking my carpenter's friend. In addition to their problems, the municipalities have problems with the handling time, which in turn delays and degrades. Simplification of planning and building laws is required monthly. I encourage the Government and the Government to continue the simplification work started by the Bondevik government, but that absolutely requires a continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e270	As mentioned above, the changes in the Planning and Building Act in 1995 and the intention of the change were to improve the quality of Norwegian construction and to remove unprofessional operators from the industry. Implementation of the conversion started in 1997. Early on, it became clear that the conversion caused major problems for builders, the construction industry and the municipal construction process – despite the economic and administrative consequences, it was assumed to be largely absent when the proposition was promoted. The approval system of contractors and craftsmen in construction became a problem. Therefore, in the spring of 1998, the Right proposed the gradual and modest introduction of the authorisation requirements so that construction activity did not stop. The size supported the Right’s proposal and transitional arrangements were put in place until the central authorities came up to date with the central approval system. As experience with the construction project reform has been gained, major problems have been identified. Animal labour had to be used to fill out large quantities of forms in order to comply with the legislation. In the light of continuing serious problems, the Stortinget in the autumn of 1998 addressed a proposal from the Right on a comprehensive review of the Planning and Building Act and its related regulations. The majority rejected the proposal for a complete review of the reform, but three concrete proposals from the Right to the amendments were received by a majority. Simplification of the authorisation catalogue, notification in relation to the land boundaries and lowering the requirements for simple classes of measures and the boundaries between classes of measures. Construction treatment continues to be a problem for many actors. Bureaucracy is too extensive, the procedure is too long and costs too high. There is therefore a need for further simplifications and improvements in the construction process. In the centre parties and in the Workers' Party, the Right's proposals for simplifications and improvements have, at best, been met with measured enthusiasm. At an early stage, the attitude was that the problems in the construction process were due to rigid interpretation of the rules in the municipalities, that the construction industry had not prepared for conversion, and that the industry before the new regulations came into force, the municipalities sent many building cases under the old legislation. Since then, understanding has become a little bit bigger. On the other hand, construction treatment remains problematic for many actors, and there is still a need for simplification and improvement. That is why the Right promoted the proposal that the Stortinget has to deal with today. I am pleased that the proposals to reduce documentation requirements make the pre-conferences more obligatory, standardisation, coordination of the procedures of the municipalities and simplification of the authorisation directory are supported by an overall accumulation. On the other hand, I am dissatisfied with the fact that we do not receive a majority in order to set a deadline for the introduction of electronic construction proceedings in the municipalities, the introduction of a 12-week deadline for cases requiring full building proceedings and the extension of the use of notification. The majority were not ready to support these points, and the Right therefore proposed that the Government continue to work on these issues, giving the Storting a broader decision-making base. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party supported the Right's proposal, but once again secured the Workers' Party and the Centre's majority against proposals or comments that allow for simplification and red tape. I am constantly disappointed by the refusal of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party to simplify the construction process. Slow procedure, increased costs and reduced housing, with higher housing costs as a consequence, will result from the policies of these parties. Finally, in the event of an incursion, it has become so that the Right is in possession of a committee comment that has a critical discussion of our own 300 m2 limit. It's like this. The entire document also carries a bid for our position on this. There is also reason to suggest that when we go as far as this 300 m2 limit in our proposal, it is exclusively in relation to which neither neighbours nor local authorities have attached comments. This premise has passed the other parties in silence, but it is an important premise for our final proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e293	I have noticed that the criticism of the Law on Planning and Building has become quite massive since then, so the Progress Party has no difficulty in fully supporting this proposal from the Right, and I will just briefly be allowed to link some comments to some aspects of the current Law on Planning and Building. Following the latest changes in this law, most construction works have been incredibly complicated by bureaucracy and a non-parallel form field. Both actors and builders — or the current action holders — are suffering from this bureaucracy and the cost-effective legislation. The municipal case handlers do, and the waiting time for a building application to be approved is usually from six months to nine months. This is not acceptable. One can conclude that the changes to the Law on Planning and Building that have been made since 1995 have not met any particular purpose. The quality of the construction works has not been significantly improved, and the so-called unprofessional operators have been better off than ever before, for now it has become so heavy and costly to have even the smallest construction works done that more people who must have done construction work have done it without permission, preferably using so-called black works. A normal building application for a single dwelling would normally cost NOK 10 000 today, and regardless of whether it is granted or not, you risk paying NOK 10 000. Because of changes in the regulations, a normal single dwelling has become something like NOK 100000 more expensive. That's how many people don't want to take the chance to pay several thousand kroner for a discount. Then they would rather be looking, and they would do the work anyway. Furthermore, it works in such a way that – and I have had a lot of enquiries about it from all over the country – many skilled craftsmen give up, they can no longer handle all the documentation requirements and all the paperwork, and they start with something else instead. I think it's a danger signal. Competition in the construction industry is weakened, and in particular several smaller players are no longer able to do so. So it's the big ones that take over more and more of the construction work, and that leads to increasing prices. And in the past, in fact, those who made most of the mistakes were just the big companies, the big companies, with 20-50-100-200 men. The small single actors who had to live by their good reputation and reputation put their honor in doing and keeping a high quality of work. It wasn't the problem, it wasn't the ones who did the bad job, but it's the ones who have become the victims of the bureaucracy, because the plan and building law has now fallen over their heads. It is therefore time for the majority to see that something has to be done. And we have our confidence that the government will come back with simplification proposals that really work in this context, because it is that the construction work, as I said at the outset, has been unnecessarily complicated by bureaucracy, by forms fields and by documentation requirements, and that has therefore resulted in a significant financial extra burden for the builders, or the action makers, first and foremost. So all in all, something has to be done in this area. At a time when renewal and modernisation of the degrees will be on the political agenda of the Government, they should not forget the Law on Planning and Building. That everyone now believes that there is a need for simplification, I take as a good sign that something will happen. I notice that there is a pressure to do something about the planning and building law, and I hope that it happens as quickly as possible, because we cannot continue to have a construction industry that must deal with such a problematic law as the politicians here have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e306	Document No 8:59 for 2000–2001 relates to simplifications and improvements in the construction axis treatment. The proposal contains changes of eight points. Governments have confirmed that she is working on a case of her own that concerns the same issues. This means that the Committee will come back to a more concrete approach to the examination of the warning proposal. From the Center Party's side, we haven't gone through these eight points very thoroughly at this point, but let me still make a few comments. The centre party agrees that there has to be simplification and improvement in this area. I must say that with an extra address to the Right, who doubted it. We understand that the work currently being done in the Department is a follow-up to the audit carried out in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs at the turn of the year 1999/2000. We emphasize that the rules today are so complicated that small businesses, sole proprietorships and businesses with less than five actually added sometimes cut out. It's negative for recruitment, it's negative for competition. It's a shame to have enough small companies to do smaller jobs without having to go to a big company, with the lack of flexibility that is necessarily there. When it comes to documentation requirements, there is also a need for simplification. I probably expected that the Right itself was something more concrete when it pertained to what they meant. But that will also be the possibility to come back to that. So the Committee says that one would stress the need to stress that the rules for the construction treatment are being practised liberally and sensibly. This will result in a somewhat different practice from municipality to municipality, and especially from city to country. The Committee believes that the Government must ensure that there is room for a different practice, especially in relation to dense bustage in the towns and scattered busses in the district municipalities. The Centre Party agrees. Let me point out that there may be a conflict between it and Point H of the Right's proposal, i.e. coordination of local authorities' practices. In my view, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs should look here at whether, at some point, they have to comply directly with different rules that guarantee different practices on the outskirts and in the city. We essentially agree with what the right here points to in the different points, in addition to what I have said here, and let me say that when it concerns electronic processing, point D, we are some of them. However, I would like to ask the Council of State to facilitate that it is not the only option. I think it is wrong if electronic processing should lead to an obvious difference in procedure, this again of consideration for small companies, who still – some of them – deliver their cases on paper. Finally, I will correct the remark on page 3 of the setting. I understand from the representative, Mr. Hoddevik, that there is extra wound in relation to that part of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party's comment which certainly provides a basis for a mandate for the Government in relation to the further work. It is expressed in the second section of page 3, where it is stated that these members have argued that the Government ‘repeals the extension of the use of notification, the extension of time-limits in building proceedings and the introduction of time-limits for the provision of electronic procedures by the municipalities to enable the Storting to decide on these matters’. From the centre party's side, I end up with this to what has been said in that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e323	There is no major reason to extend this debate significantly. There is a broad consensus that the Government will present a case of significant simplifications and improvements in the construction process. For SV, it is essential to maintain a high level of consumer safety in such cases, which was the starting point for changes to the Planning and Building Act. The results in retrospect have shown that this has become so detailed and complicated that it might threaten what you were trying to protect, and I now perceive that both the majority and the Government have taken the consequences of this and want a review. In addition, we need to plan good housing and urban environments, i.e. to enable municipalities to do so effectively. It is the two reasons that are important, so SV looks forward to the changes that the Government is making, and is prepared to be quite comprehensive, so that there is an improvement on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e332	I will admit that it was the representative Torbjørn Andersen who made me ask for the word again. The background is that I almost get the feeling that the Progress Party and maybe the Right in a way are those who claim to be in contact with the business that operates in the building industry. Then I would like to tell you that I drove to Snåsa, where it is a small building company, I would say, with 13 employees and a couple of apprentices. I drove your errand there to sit down and hear what is the problem with the law on the planning and building. Then they said, "No, we're doing very well, we're adapting and we think the code is working." Therefore, we must not all cut over a comb. There's someone who's figured out that it's important to live with this. And that's what the representative Karin Andersen said: that was a background for the changes that came into the Planning and Building Act. And then I'd like to ask, is it such that the Progress Party has evidence that there is such a big drop-out of small construction companies after the building law was passed? It would have been nice to see that documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e341	To some of what the representative Gaundal said: I think first I want to say that this industry I know quite well myself. I have been working for 20-25 years as a self-employed person in the building industry, so I believe I have a certain professional basis to express myself on. In 1997, I quit. Then I ended up at Stortinget. Then it was quite easy to get permission and arrange documentation, paperwork, all the formalities for building a dwelling or an annex here in the country. But since that time I've had some construction work in between, and I've clearly seen what a huge difference it is from my time as a craftsman to today. The representative Gaundal gives an example with a company with 12-13 employees. Sure, they like it, because they can handle it. For every sixth, seventh employee, they may have one or two in the office that can handle all of the forms that we're talking about. But it's all the little ones who have problems, single man companies, two-three pieces that run together. It's those who have problems, and there's a lot of them around, especially in the districts. And the big ones see clearly that it's the little ones that are hit. They get rid of unnecessary competitors, so they cheer. It was therefore nothing new to me what was mentioned by the representative Gaundal. It's a development that you've been aware of would come. And I think that was part of some of the changes, that they were going to help make larger companies, so that you could have better control of the building operators – perhaps tax. I base my assumptions, among others: that I still have good contact with the construction industry. I'm still at annual meetings around talking to the actors. And it can't be that everything I hear from the building industry and the actors is wrong, that it's different, and that Aud Gaundal knows what's right. I've been talking to my neighbor, who's been running for many years as a kind of a single-man enterprise. He gave up, and he's probably running now and taxing the house instead. As I said, I have received many telephones from all over the country, and it is clear that this has become so complicated that now you cannot do more, but start with something else. It's not just about those who are called carpenters or carpenters, it's about plumbers, it's about electricians. In fact, all trades in crafts are represented. The big ones are happy with this. We knew that from the very beginning – this was a law change that would be adapted to the big ones and benefit the big ones, but it would be at the expense of the small actors. And I guess it's our job to think about the little players in this country too!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e354	It was a technical manager in a municipality in my home country who once said I had a meeting with the municipality, that the reform of the building part of the planning and building law was a very fine paper reform. The best application he had ever received was for the building that finally turned out to be the worst built they had in the municipality. He said they had a very good secretary in that construction company, who could all about filling out a form. But this did not mean that the craftsmen were better for that reason. It's one of the problems of creating a large form field, but we haven't necessarily made sure that it's been better built out of this, even though everyone had ambitions that it would be like this. I think Aud Gaundal should think back on what she has voted against in this room, when she asked the question she asked Torbjørn Andersen. What was proposed by the Right in the context of an interpellation in the autumn of 1998 was an evaluation of the main points in terms of how the design and building law affected the structure of the construction industry, precisely to see if it could be confirmed that it was the case that the small companies disappeared and that everything was sucked up by the large ones. The Labour Party voted against this, and the representative, Aud Gaundal, can hardly ask others to provide us with documentation when she herself has agreed to prevent that documentation from being submitted to Stortinget. It wasn't because of this that I was going to take the word, but I was kind of provoked by the fact that you forget so quickly what you actually voted against. The reason I took the floor was that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa expressed her agreement with something we criticized. We criticised that the Central Party had not stated that they agreed to give the Storting a broader basis for making decisions in the areas that the Council of State has said she will not join. If the Left had been present in the Chamber, I certainly believe that they would probably say the same thing – that it is de facto a political majority in the United Kingdom who want to have a wider review of the issues on which the Council of State has not indicated that she will agree. I ask the Council of State to put this on the heart and take it with them, so that you can carry out this review and give the Storting a decision-making basis in these matters. When you have a slightly better basis for detail than our Document No. 8 proposals, you get to choose how far you want to go when it comes to a message. I hope the Council of State will contribute to that. I know that it is really so that the Central Party has declared that it is a political majority, and if the Council of State cannot confirm it now, I can ask one of the representatives of the Left to write a letter that they probably believe the same thing – because they do, even if they are not present and can confirm it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e365	I feel the need to defend my colleague Aud Gaundal, when the representative Solberg says that because we did not vote in favour of the Stortinget, we cannot make the claim that small businesses will disappear. It is possible to provide such numbers even though the Storting has not come with them. The claims that come both from the Progress Party and the Right that small businesses are disappearing must be put forward. I think that the example of Torbjørn Andersen came with me about the neighbor who ended up as a craftsman and started as an appraiser – at least as I know the industry – is a good example. Being an appraiser leads to a very large form choice. When you stop working as a craftsman to make the form field too large, there is something that is not right. But I would like to ask you to provide evidence that the small businesses are disappearing without the majority of the Storting telling you to do so. I think that both the representatives of Andersen and Solberg should come up with these figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e375	I just want to comment on what we're going to do to follow up this. I think it is affordable that this has been taken up, and it is of course the way that the Storing decides today, the Government will follow up, and that is also very much in line with the work already in progress. We intend to present what we can do in our own way – I say it that way, because there is a lot of work to be done in many areas. What is concrete here of proposals, and which we are not able to find in ours, we aim to follow up on a separate proposition for the autumn. Otherwise, it is also certainly known to Stortinget that we are going through the entire law of planning and building as such, which is a slightly larger work. But we're going to have to get the things that are signaled here and that are also very much in line with what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2669]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e398	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be restricted to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to one of the independent representatives. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e405	The proposer points to a paradox that irritates many banking customers and that must be said to be very low consumer friendly, namely the fact that the fees for banking services are still rising, while we see that the interest margins of banks are calculating are going down. And as the proposer points out in his proposal, things suggest that in recent years technology has led to the fact that banking services have actually become more reasonable, not more expensive. At the same time, we see that setting fee sizes is done in a mildly diverse way. There are many ways the different banks and financial institutions calculate the size. It has, for example, meaning when you pay a bill, if you have to pay it over the counter – that’s a price. Payment per month. The telephone may have a different price, by letter it may be a third price, and via the Internet a fourth price. There are different prices for everything based on how you take out your money, if you take them out of the bank, if you take them out of a mini bank – in the case of which bank's mini bank, and in the case of which bank reaches the day and in which country – if you take out the money through shopping and in what kind of store. We also have different fees for credit cards and credit card usage. The list could be made even longer, and it is clear that such a diverse list, which is different from a bank to a bank, makes it difficult to calculate one's future fee costs and makes it difficult to compare the different fees charged to banks. The Committee therefore fully agrees that it is necessary to provide information on fees in the best possible way for the customer, the consumer. It is also in line with what was the background to the Financial Agreements Act, which entered into force last summer. It was discovered that the bank is the big and professional party, while the consumer, and in particular the consumer customer, is the small amateur. Therefore, the customer should be provided with more information and assistance when entering into contracts, while the bank should assume greater responsibility for both information and advice, as well as for any losses. A new culture was introduced with the new Financial Agreements Act. Now it might be that culture has not yet gone through well enough, it is in case something needs to be evaluated and followed up in several areas. The Committee therefore fully agrees with the rapporteur's idea of optimum information on this subject with fees. The Committee is in doubt about the exact model of how this information is to be provided by the proposer, and the best way to provide information is to construct an average customer, a fee customer. We fear that it would mislead a customer more than guided it, and in that case it is not good consumer policy. Nobody's an average customer. When I contact a bank or a financial institution, I am interested in my future expected fee costs in that contractual relationship. What some designed average customer had to have for fee expenses is not interesting for me. But getting a quick, straightforward and transparent answer from a bank on what my expected fee costs will be compared to my expected dispositions, and in what way it happens, can probably happen in a much more transparent and straightforward way than what the case is today. The Committee has also pointed out that the danger of constructing an average customer is that it may be fraud from the banks. There may be a great deal of power in that the charging system can then be reversed so that the average customer comes out relatively reasonably, but the fact that there are very small deviations from the average customer in the use of banking services can lead to a huge leap in the pricing process. If you want to show the general level of fees in a bank or a financial institution, it might be better to have standardised arrangements to make it easier to compare from bank to bank. It is possible that some of these should be in the form of regulations in some way, but the Committee is not prepared to adopt the specific model presented by the proposer. The Committee would also send the ball to the financial industry as such, so that the financial industry can see that having a good charging policy is also a good competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e418	This is in many ways a strange attitude, and in particular it becomes strange when you hear the rapporteur's many good words about the intention of the proposal. And when you also reject the proposal, it becomes even more astonishing. It's clear that constructing an average customer is hard, because everyone knows that. But the idea behind this proposal is that there is actually an average, and that average, based on the same type of transaction, is completely possible to compare between different banks. There are actually some banks that don't have fees at all, and there are some banks that have a lot of fees. And that is quite correct, as the rapporteur said and as it says in Document No. The 8 proposal, that fees depend on time, services, in which country you use the services, etc. So this is the issue of the financial industry. The financial industry does not want this type of fee to be stated. It is difficult to compare fees. At the bottom of the account statement are the fees you have, but it is only at the end of the year that you see how much you have actually spent in the fee in a year. Most people will be quite surprised if you take a look at the drop at the bottom of your local bank, because then you will see that you would like to pay NOK 1500 to NOK 2000 in a year's fee, while an average customer has had an interest income in the same account of NOK 200 to NOK 300. The point is that the financial industry itself did not even want to state effective interest rates in its time. They fought with beaks and claws so that effective interest rates should not be reported, and there are many who do not have the interest rate reported as effective interest rates. There are some major customers with significantly lower interest rates and there are some poor payers with higher interest rates. But there's something called effective interest, which is a competitive parameter that banks have to deal with. Some banks are constantly hanging out in the tabloid press because they are constantly on the top of the interest rate, while some banks are constantly on the bottom of the interest rate. Similarly, it would have been possible to compete between banks in terms of fees, and not depending on the absence of an average customer, because they all know that. Everything that goes on average in our statistical calculations doesn't really exist, and everyone knows that very well. Nevertheless, there is a statistical average to which it is possible to relate in all official statistics. The point of this was to create an additional element of competition for banks. For what we know, as the rapporteur also explained, and which is described in detail in Document No. The 8 proposal is that everything really points to the fact that the fees were going to go down. So they don't. The fees go up despite the fact that everything – and I have pointed out four particularly important points – actually means that the customer would get cheaper products, but the customer does not. This is due, inter alia, to: the focus is on interest rates and not on fees. And if this proposal were adopted, there would be a significant pressure on the banks to get the fee down. Unfortunately, as the situation is today, the banks have their bays and both ends, while the consumer is actually charged the fee. It is constantly changing the charging policy throughout the year without the consumer being able to inform himself in this market to the same extent. In fact, very many consumers experience changing banks as a rather big and dramatic decision, one has a loyalty relationship with banks that may be much stronger than the loyalty relationship with many other products and services that you want to perform. In particular, this with an effective fee and an average calculation that could have measured the competitive factor for banks would have been important. That is why, with increasing amazement, I hear that the rapporteur agrees in principle with everything contained in Document No. The 8 proposal, but it does not agree with the conclusion. The minutes shall not even be annexed, but shall be rejected. This means that banks are actually going to have all the powers to continue the unbridled charging policy that banks now have. This means that the bulk of the population actually says that the charging policy that banks have can continue, and that it is the consumer who has the full responsibility – by reading what is written at the bottom, and by paying attention to these major changes in the charging policy. Everyone knows this isn't happening. This proposal submitted by SV is initially an initiative of the Consumer Council. The Consumer Council believes that this is a good proposal. We from SV believe that this is a good proposal – to bring some power back to the consumer, in order to get the appropriate comparison. I note to my great amazement that all parties, except SV, in this room agree with the banking industry that in this field the banks are actually going to be free and the consumer is still playing ball. I think it is very disappointing, very discouraging, to see that the Justice Committee has not acted to say that this is fully possible, this will create a better and healthier competition in the financial industry that will benefit the consumer. The starting point for our proposal and this commitment is the consumer and not the banking industry. The banking industry has certainly had it well enough as it has, it is the consumer and the little man we have been concerned about in this case. Since SV is not in the Judicial Committee, I would like to address the proposal originally made in Document No. 8:48.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e440	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2669]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e456	I asked for the word for a short post because we from the Workers' Party do not understand this proposal. We believe that the content of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is now fully covered by the law passed in Odelstinget a few weeks ago. We fully agree with what it says, we fully agree with the content, which is also clear from the unanimous comments of the Committee on this subject in the vote. And we cannot understand it other than that the paragraphs adopted by Odelstinget in the Penal Code and the changes made in the Penal Code fully comply with what this proposal addresses. And we think it's very difficult to ask the government to promote changes in the rules as long as the changes in the rules we've just made meet what you're asking for changes in the rules. So if the Labour Party is to go along with this proposal, which we fully agree with, we must get a clarification from the Right or the Advance Party as to what kind of rule changes they are really after, and why it is considered that this is not covered by what the Odelsting has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2669]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e475	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2669]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e483	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e490	In the course of the debate, 36 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3–5, by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6-26 and 36, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on proposal No. 27, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 28-35, by Mr Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the representative, Mr Vedar Kleppe and himself, The President shall make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e511	Just a very brief explanation of vote on proposal No. Thirty-four. The right has previously voted against the creation of the Foreign Study, but we believe that on the basis of the fact that we now have 3,000 cases for treatment and stays, it would be the wrong time to roll everything around and start again. I would therefore only be allowed to say that we use it when we now vote against it, although we really believe that it is a wrong organisation to have a foreign student.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e516	Explanation of vote on the proposals No. 28-35: I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote against proposal No. 28. Proposal No. 29 we shall vote against, proposal No. We shall vote in favour of Amendment No 30. We shall vote in favour of Amendment No 31. We are voting in favour of Amendment No 32. 33 we vote against, proposal No. 34 we are voting in favour and proposal No. We vote in favour of 35.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e521	The President then refers to voting proposals No. 28, 29 and 33, from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang and Vidar Kleppe. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines that asylum-seekers/sylanants should not, as a general rule, be integrated into Norwegian society, but should be helped to be sent home to their country of origin as soon as the conditions in their country of origin so warrant.’ 29 reads:‘The government asks for a clean-up of the concepts to be an asylum seeker, a refugee or an immigrant. Persons who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis or in the event of family reunification are considered to be immigrants.’ 33 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a residence permit only after 10 years of residence in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e541	The President then refers to voting proposals No. 30–32, 34 and 35, from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang and Vidar Kleppe. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to give the police the opportunity to openly reject groundless asylum seekers at the Norwegian borders.’ 31 reads:‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place a system for the automatic expulsion of criminal foreign nationals from the Kingdom, too long.’ 32 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the system of language teaching.’ 34 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the new Foreign Office.’ 35 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to hold an advisory referendum on Norwegian asylum and refugee policy based on the following voting theme as soon as possible: Should Norway limit the granting of asylum and permanent residence permits in relation to current practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e573	The President then refers to voting proposal No. 27, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2002 requests proposals for increased social benefits for living, the necessary review of health care components and the limits on the freedom of residents to receive benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e587	We have now come to the proposals No. 6-26 and proposal No 36, from the Progress Party. Is there anyone asking for these proposals to be split up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e590	I cannot make any major recommendations here – this has been shown until now. But at least I am encouraged to vote against the proposals as much as possible. 25 and 16 and against proposals Nos. 14 and 9. The reason why I recommend people to vote against these proposals was the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e595	The President first refers to proposals Nos. 9, 14, 16, and 25. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up arrangements to place asylum seekers with unacceptable behaviour in their own closed reception.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a proposal limiting the number of refugees and humanitarian residents to 1000 per year. years.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in such a way that only persons with a residence permit are granted membership in the public interest.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a proposal to grant a residence permit only after seven years of residence in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e626	So let's look at the proposals. 6-8, 10-13, 15, 17-24, 26 and 36. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work at the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines on asylum applications so that clearly groundless applications cannot be filed.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a system whereby asylum seekers, refugees and persons who are granted humanitarian residence must sign their commitment to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations even if they are contrary to their own religious regulations or customs from their country of origin, and that they will refrain from illegal demonstrations and damage works in Norway which are directed against the conditions of their country of origin. Violation of obligations results in automatic expulsion.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘Immediate applications for asylum from persons who commit criminal offences in Norway while awaiting the processing of their application shall be rejected.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that the residence period for obtaining Norwegian citizenship first runs from the time when a person has been granted residence.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines so that DNA testing is used as a standard procedure in family reunification to verify the applicant’s data in a fast and cost-effective manner.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the family reunification legislation in such a way as not to grant family reunification to refugees who have been granted asylum before 36 months and not to persons who are allowed to stay on a different basis.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from making proposals which extend the right of asylum to gender-based persecution as such is normal in countries governed by the Islamic Sharia laws, while at the same time opening up significant asylum immigration as claims of persecution within a family or in society are generally impossible to refute.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to ensure a level playing field in public security for all’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a State Refugee Agency, which is entrusted with all responsibility for the organisation, administration and financing of asylum seekers, refugees and persons residing on a humanitarian basis in Norway, organised as a government agency with regional and local offices. Municipal refugee consultants, administrative and other staff are requested to be transferred to this work. Refugees shall remain under the responsibility and budget of this department until they can feed on normal work in the same way as other residents.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to increase the integration grant to SEK 75 000 and to give it over seven years’.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to prevent the second residence of refugees seconded to a municipality before it has been approved and accepted by the authorities.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a comprehensive compulsory course in Norwegian and Norwegian social conditions in all asylum recipients in order to clarify an integration process which is assumed to take place when asylum or stay is granted on a humanitarian basis.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide for a strengthening of Norwegian training in the reception of asylum for minors. Participation in the ordinary schoolwork is granted only to students with adequate Norwegian knowledge and having completed their asylum application and having been legally resident.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for the rapid monitoring of competence so that it can be used as a basis for full or partial recognition of the profession.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian is the only teaching language in the ordinary public school and that parent language training is a private matter for parents and their children and is kept outside the ordinary school.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘Document No. 8:67 [[2000-2001]] Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work for a system that allows asylum seekers to be given jobs in their own workshops at reception, for example, so that everyday life is made more meaningful at the same time as valuable language and working life training is given.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e730	Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5 from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party are being taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to suspend the enforcement of decisions based on the provision on the residence permit for women after a break in life and those claiming to have been subjected to gender-based persecution until a review of the applications has been carried out.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base all work on the principle that single asylum seekers should have an equal offer with Norwegian children under the care of child protection.Receipts for single minor asylum seekers are given the status of child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that contributions proposed in the integration grant are adjusted to full expenditure coverage before inclusion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e758	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the UDI in line with the comments of the majority, which will provide a basis for a functioning administration of foreigners where the objective of a shorter duration of proceedings can be achieved and where the balances have been reduced by 1 January 2002 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a law allowing the police to issue travel documents of limited duration for persons residing in Norway who have lost their normal travel/identity document.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e800	The President will ask the Progress Party whether they will now vote in favour of II or whether they will vote against it all the time when their own proposal has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e803	: We will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e810	Let's do II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e833	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e851	The President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left want to vote against. - They won't. Not the Socialist Left Party? What about the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left? Is anyone going to vote against? - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e867	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e878	We have now finished voting on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e898	During the debate Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, made the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to amend the Financial Contracts Act as soon as possible to oblige financial institutions to provide the customer in writing with the expected average annual fee level prior to the conclusion of the account agreement, as well as in marketing and customer information.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e919	The vote will take place on the proposal from the representative of the Grand Duchy of Kristin Krohn Devold, on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 April 2001: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote changes in the rules which ensure that qualified violations of the conditions of social penalties, which in general result in a transfer to compensation, are carried out.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-23-2.ana.ud2408e935	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 April 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the social penalty be imposed only as an additional penalty by a conditional judge.’
