ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e73	The representatives Aud Blattmann and Eirin Fallet, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative of Marit Tingelstad on 2 and 3 May in order to participate, after an invitation, in the workshop on craft training for Helsinki from the representative Lars Gunnar Lie on leave on 2 and 3 May in order to attend the conference at Wilton Park in Steyning, England On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Uppland County: Terje StensengFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn Steinhovden3. Terje Stenseng is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Marit Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e119	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e122	On behalf of myself and Karin Andersen, I propose a national action plan for the development of new water-borne heat based on new renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e127	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e130	On behalf of myself and Per Erik Monsen, I put forward a proposal to equate private rental of boat pitches and boat associations with the value added tax obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e135	The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e138	On behalf of myself, Lars Sponheim and Gunnar Kvassheim, I would like to propose that the Stortinget should be presented as a matter of its own, an overall policy for the use of encryption in Norway, including a fundamental discussion of balances, among other things. on privacy, which relates to the development of the Internet and the merger between the Internet and mobile telephony.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e143	The representative, Randi Karlstrøm, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e147	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal on the elimination of the coordination of fishing pensions in the event of disability for fishermen under 60 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e152	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e162	Because of the significant public interest surrounding the state of the NRC — both in this room and among the majority of the population — this year’s media policy statement will be about our main public broadcaster — the NRC. The media are currently changing rapidly and continuously. Technological realities evolve from day to day, and only imagination limits what is possible in the sector. It is therefore necessary to continuously review media objectives and instruments. The government will therefore carry out a thorough review of public media policy in a general and principled communication that will be presented to the Stortingeten in the autumn. The media are the very foundation of our democracy. Without well-functioning media, the whole of democracy, public dialogue and exchange of views are threatened. I will therefore carry out a broad and comprehensive review of media status today, the challenges in the years to come and public framework conditions for the media sector. The Communication will address the media sector in its full scope, but will also discuss the decision of the Daily Press Committee. The NRK is facing fundamental choices. This spring’s presentation will therefore essentially address key issues related to the NRC. The government's media policy is based on ensuring as much freedom as possible for the media, while using appropriate management tools to ensure freedom of expression and information, diversity, quality and accessibility, but also the necessary measures to protect children and young people. The NRK is Norway’s leading cultural and media policy enterprise and can in many ways be regarded as the very crown jewel of the Norwegian media. In a digital media reality marked by globalisation and commercialisation, an advertisement-free, publicly funded public broadcasting company is becoming more important than ever. The road choices that now have to be made for the NRC will be of the utmost importance for the development of our society in our country. During the monopoly period, the NRK’s cultural policy understanding and role were a matter of course. The NRK was a nation-building institution that did not have to defend its existence. This reality is too far away. But the cultural policy of the NRK is still here. It is the very existence of the NRK. The story of the NRK starts and ends with this role. In modern societies, mass media are the main channels of expression and the main sources of information as well as public information and entertainment. Since its inception in 1933, the NRK has been one of the most important forums for public vocabulary and cultural communication in Norway. The role of the NRK cannot be underestimated. The State has an unmistakable responsibility to ensure that there is an infrastructure for communication of information and public communication. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has also established that. The NRK is currently one of several actors in a highly competitive media market. In addition to the newspapers, which NRK has been competing with all the time, the company currently has competition from other broadcasters both domestic and foreign and subsequently from new electronic media. Today, therefore, we have a completely different variety of sources of information and forums for exchange of views than we did when the NRK was established. Despite this, or maybe just because of this, I would argue that the NRK has a least as important role today as before, because the NRK is a non-commercial and not least a Norwegian alternative to an increasingly dominant international media industry. Television is the medium that today most characterizes our culture and our cultural development. Television today is almost as real as it is. If television does not substantially reflect national culture and national characteristics, these specificities may be eliminated. Digital technology will lead to an explosion in media pluralism and fragmentation of the public, and thus of public debate, with the potential impact on democracy. The NRK is therefore going to be more important than ever — as a gathering point and as a cultural carrier. The NRK Television Newscasts ratings tell how important this information channel is: 1.63 million Nordmen, i.e. about 44 pst. by the population, using the offer on an average day in 2000. The News Flagship Dagsrevyen passed only 1 million viewers 33 times during the year. The average rise around the Dayrevy increased by 76 000 to 834 000 viewers from 1999 to 2000. Children and young people are major consumers of audiovisual media. The content of these media helps shape their reality and attitudes. It's this generation that's going to build future Norway, and that's now we're laying the foundation for Norwegian society in 50 years. It is therefore not a matter of what kind of media today's children and young people get, and here the NRK has a very important role, both normative and actual. With a market share of 36 pst. Among children between three and eleven years of age, NRK1 remained the largest channel in the group in 2000. Barne-TV had a market share of 89 pst. from three to eleven-year-olds. The NRK youth programmes also received a very good reception among the target population. The government will bet on the NRK. To date, there has been a broad cross-political agreement to maintain the NRC as a non-advertising public broadcaster capable of providing the population with free and independent information. This is also the government's policy. It is this independent role that we need to protect and maintain in the future. The government will facilitate the continued relevance of the company in the digitalised media future, where the need for a nation-building and knowledge-stimulating public broadcaster becomes particularly important. It will never be a political goal to maintain the NRK for the company itself, as someone seems to believe. The NRK as a company has no value in itself, from a social policy standpoint. On the other hand, the NRK with advertising-free public broadcasting channels is invaluable to Norway as a nation. The Government does not wish to make major changes to the licence financing. This will be the NRK’s main source of income in the years to come. In particular, the NRK shall be an unadvertised alternative. I have registered that someone has called for advertising funding for sport. To the extent that this should be the case, it will have to be done in clearly defined areas — and only after government has discussed the issue. The opinions about the NRK are many and strong. I only see this as a sign of health. It shows that the NRK is important, and that the company's life and the rest are engaged. It also shows the social importance of the institution NRC. An example of this has recently been the rumors that private investors want to buy the White House at Marienlyst have produced emotional reactions in many. Let me say that neither the government of the NRK nor the owner of the NRK has imminent plans to sell, even though we are very concerned about upgrading the NRK for the new digital age. If the future requires other premises, we're going to think carefully about what the White House is best used for. There are many people who have clear opinions about how the company should behave, what to produce, and even how the NRC should organise its activities. Over time, these perceptions are transformed into adopted truths that eventually become part of the reality of the NRK. The perceptions of the environment reflect heavy traditions and established standards, but also new trends and trends. As long as there is agreement that the NRK should be essentially free of advertising, the NRK will not itself make money, but live on resources made available by the owner – the state. A licensed NRK requires the company to have a very high degree of legitimacy among its users. The licensee pays more than $3 billion this year to keep the NRK going, and there's no change in the NRK needs to make the leap in the digital future. The NRK's strategic objective, like the Government's objective, is to maintain the company's strong position in the future media landscape. The NRK considers that this objective can only be achieved if the company can continue to be a strong content provider and, in addition, actively participate in one or more digital content portals. This means that the NRK must invest capital in the relevant portal companies. This is capital NRK does not have today. The government assesses the NRK’s digital strategy and will decide in the paper and annual budgets how to secure the NRK financially in a new and demanding media reality. Licensing has been called into question in a number of contexts as a form of future financing. This is not a strange phenomenon. In most European countries, the future and funding of public broadcasting are now being discussed. I am convinced that the form of funding chosen for public broadcasters affects the profile and content of the companies. This vision is shared by e.g. the European Broadcasting Union, EBU. Funding is very relevant for meeting the general programming conditions and it will be absolutely necessary to see the form of funding in conjunction with both the cultural policy obligations of a general programme and the expectations of users and owners of the company. So I believe in a future in which the NRK is largely – and I stress in all respects – licence-funded or otherwise publicly funded. If you don't believe in continued licensing funding in some form, you don't believe in the NRK. And then we give up the NRK. I believe in public broadcasting, and I believe in NRK. It is important that we take a firm stand on the debate on the future financing of the NRC now, so that we can give the NRC a direction for the future. The debate must be based on certain basic principles and not be dominated by more or less well-founded predictions about the consequences of digital development. As I see it, the NRK public broadcaster rests on two pillars: the public broadcasting obligations and the independent funding. The critics will claim that the obligations are symbolic and that the licence is a survival from the past. I believe that public broadcasting as we know it from NRK and companies like BBC and Sweden's Television, will never survive without independent funding. There is no natural law that binds the legitimacy of the broadcasting fee to the analogue business. Nor do I know that any other European government believes that the licence must cease when it is switched to full digital broadcasting. Publicly supported public broadcasting is primarily a matter of willingness and a common understanding of its need. The issue that the Government is now considering is whether the license is sufficient to bring the NRK into the lucky reality. Solutions exist on the funding side if there is a willingness for the NRK to remain as a free and independent public broadcaster in the future. The licence depends, not on a particular technological platform, but on the legitimacy and societal position of the NRK. But – the license depends not least on people actually using the TV as an information and entertainment medium. A reduction in NRK as a public broadcaster, as we know it today, would probably take place whether it is based on advertising or pay television, or if the company became dependent on the income flows from the value chains in the interactive solutions of the future. These alternative forms of funding will inevitably lead the NRK towards a one-sided focus on viewer and listener numbers and revenues. This does not mean that advertising-funded broadcasters are allowed to dictate by advertisers. These companies end up in a commercialisation spiral where viewer and listener numbers determine the means of income. This leads to narrow programmes, minority offers, experimental experiments and analytical depth being marginalised in the provision of advertising channels. We have to ask ourselves if that's the kind of NRK we want. If we were to give up the license, there is no undo button. It has been claimed that the license will have survived itself when Ola and Kari Nordmann get 20 digital channels into the living room. In the opinion of the Government, this development only increases the legitimacy of the licence. We need the license to maintain an independent public broadcasting offer in the future channel jungle. In addition, studies show that there is a positive link between the quality of the public broadcasters and the quality of the commercial broadcasters. I have to ask the following questions to those who are talking about a relatively immediate commercialisation and full privatisation of the NRK: what should such a NRK live on? The advertising market for television does not provide the basis for many advertising channels in Norway today. The market is limited, and there are no margins left to pick up for another bigger actor. The advertising market for television in Norway today amounts to about DKK 2 billion – less than the NRC needs. The market had to more than double in order for the NRK to be phased in – provided that the NRK took the entire market growth. A full phase-in of NRK in the advertising market would destroy both the NRK and the existing channels. In addition to the fact that Norway does not need a privatised NRK, the Norwegian market is actually not large enough for a privatised NRK. I said instead that I believe in a future where the NRK is mainly licensed. At the same time, I am also aware that progress towards the digital future may require a certain extension of the funding base of the NRK. This possibility is already in place. The NRC may finance some of its business activities. This gives the company more degrees of freedom to fulfil the public broadcasting mission and to finance new services, or simply: get more legs to stand on. Most public broadcasters in Europe are currently funded by such blending funding. However, there are clear prerequisites for commercial operations in subsidiaries: the general programme offer must be kept free of advertising, profits from the business activity must be used to finance programme production and programme purchase, and licensing funds must not cross-subsidise business activities. On the other hand, public broadcasting activities may be subsidized through the commercial activity. This is also in line with EU policy in this area. The EU has decided that individual EEA countries themselves decide which public broadcasting obligations should be imposed on the broadcasters and how they should be financed. This means that the EU fully accepts licence funding and also that public broadcasters have some commercial revenues. The EU also requires close shots between public broadcasting activities and commercial activities. At the same time, however, EU competition rules also apply, such as: limits State aid which has distortive effects on competition. The EU assesses the practice of State aid rules for broadcasters benefiting from State aid that simultaneously produce services that compete in a commercial market. If the EU amends its State aid rules, they will also apply to Norway. When the possibilities of blending are present, while the number of channels is increasing or the concept of channels may be diluted, it would no longer be sufficient to say that the licence is to finance what is sent in the public channels. The EEA legislation and the need for political clarification indicate that the time is now ripe for a more precise definition of the activities to be financed by the licence. The Norwegian audience should be defined which information and entertainment services can be expected to receive from a state-owned broadcaster in a digitised broadcasting reality. For the NRK itself, a delineation of the public broadcasting activity may be useful to avoid claims of distortions of competition from commercial competitors. I would therefore like to start work on defining and defining the public service remit, so as to clarify which programme categories and services the NRC will provide to the whole population and on which broadcasting platforms. Of course, there is no question of intervening in editorial programme priorities. Such work must necessarily take place in close cooperation with the NRK, but I want, among other things. I also use the competence of the Danish Broadcasting Council. This is a work that should have a high priority, and I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when there is a more concrete arrangement. In order to survive, the NRK must first continue to deliver broad and narrow productions to the entire population, second, to maintain a significant market position and thirdly to become a modern company also in the management of the licensing funds. The NRK is an institution that has ambitious and ambiguous objectives. Paradoxically, the NRK must be large and narrow at once. The public service mission involves objectives which are partly in conflict with each other and which are open to excessive interpretation both within and outside the organisation. However, it is not likely that the market position of a publicly funded public broadcaster is relevant to democracy. As long as the NRK receives more than NOK 3 billion from the licensees, it means that the company has significant viewer and listener attendance, without itself making sense with a concrete numerical fixation. The NRK must not be the largest, but it must be large and significant. As all pay NRK’s expenditure through the broadcasting fee, it is important that the distribution of viewers is wide and that the opening up of the company’s overall offer is large. It is also vital, in cultural policy terms, that the company embraces widely, so that the cultural and identity-bearing role of the NRC is as pervasive and effective in society as possible. This applies not least to the digital future. NRK is currently running two TV channels. The prerequisite for establishing the NRK2 was that the channel should be a relief channel. The NRK2 has gradually evolved into a more independent channel than the term ‘discharge channel’ suggests. The channel can be received today by something less than 90 pst. by the population. I have received a lot of strong reactions from all parts of the country to the fact that the NRK has chosen to send most of the feature films and several children's programs only in the NRK2. Of course, the NRK must have a very high degree of editorial freedom. But this freedom cannot be used to overestimate the assumptions given in this room. I therefore assume that until digitisation is completed and the NRK2 can be received by the entire population, the channel must be a real relief channel. This means that NRK must primarily send the most attractive programmes in NRK1. I've already asked NRK's board to go through the Storting's assumptions quickly and evaluate the current balance between the two channels. The debate on the digital future talks a lot about the disappearance of the channel concept and the fact that the market will almost be atomized. I can't predict the future's viewing habits, but I believe that the edited channel concept will survive in some form for many years. Marking strength will be crucial in the future. That is what consumers are briefing themselves on today, and perhaps even more so in the future. Market research shows that the NRK has high confidence in the population and is one of the country’s strongest brands regardless of industry. This brand name was just created through NRK's edited product. The NRK’s strength is that the company’s offer is Norwegian, innovative and of high quality, and that it enjoys extensive public confidence. The person who traces the death of the NRK and public broadcasting in a digital future underestimates both Norwegian television viewers and the “brain power” found in the NRK. Nor should you underestimate people's integrated viewing habits. It is not obvious that these change even if the technology changes. I therefore believe that the NRK must also have a significant market position in the future. This objective requires effective and appropriate regulation and significant investments for the company. Without these investments, there is a risk that the NRK will be small, weak and meaningless, and that the reasons for public funding will disappear. Finally, the non-advertising public broadcasting offer will also fall away. The government will prevent such developments through a forward-looking media policy ensuring the role and position of the NRC. Ensuring the optimal transition to the digital future will require a comprehensive process with many involved actors. The NRK has presented a first outline of the estimated costs of digitisation and a future plan. In view of this, the Ministry of Culture has initiated a process with the NRK for further clarification. The NRK has had discussions with TV 2 and Telenor about possible cooperation in the field of digitalisation. There is currently no specific agreement to demonstrate the extent to which the parties wish to cooperate. Norwegian public broadcasters need to be ensured sufficient framework conditions to develop and disseminate programme activities in a digital television network. However, it is also important that such a network allows other broadcasters to start nationwide broadcasting, which will increase competition in the broadcasting sector. The desire for increased competition in the sector included: the reason why the Storting requested that the frequency capacity allocated to a digital network be increased in line with the Ministry’s proposal. The digital ground network, in addition to having the capacity for other broadcasters to start nationwide broadcasting, will also have the capacity to provide different telecommunications services. Regardless of the distribution solution choice, I would like to point out that a switch to digital television distribution should lead to improved provision for the population. The new digital ground net shall be nationwide. With such a network, the NRK2 will be ensured wider distribution than today, while the NRK1 remains available to all. In a transitional phase, the NRK must operate with parallel distribution of analogue and digital broadcasts. The company will not be able to turn off the analogue broadcasts until the majority of the population can take in the digital ones. This will impose significant additional costs on the company for distribution. It is in our common interest that this transition phase should be as short as possible. The rapid development of a nationwide digital network can be an important contribution to the reduction of the transition phase. In the case of concession awards, therefore, I intend to choose a procedure that takes account of this. It is obvious that the NRK is facing a very complex situation. The company experiences revolutionary changes in the environment. The previously stable and predictable technical environment has been replaced with unpredictable and dynamic frames. The environment wears NRK in two directions. While the NRC is our leading cultural institution, the NRC is expected to become more business-oriented and to a greater extent focus on financial management and efficiency. This is going to be even more important in the future. The NRK's main business is not and should not be, to make money, but to use money to produce public broadcasting. The most important thing for the NRK in the future is to spend this money as efficiently as possible. Three billion dollars is a lot of money. You can run the Nordic largest hospital for this money, or almost the entire state cultural activity. The government will do its utmost to unload the NRK into the digital era. But I want something back. The licence fee is used for excellent programme production. It's in the best of luck. The economy lives the most, but it doesn't run well enough. Firstly, the budget shall be balanced. That is a fundamental requirement. But that's just the beginning. In addition to a balanced set of accounts, I want a company that defends each license fee by using the maximum amount for content production. The NRK has a modern program production, but we need a non-profit company that also has modern financial management. At the most, the company is required to provide for a significant improvement in financial transparency, control and transparency. In the future, the company will have to present the use of licence fees in the fields of activity and transmission surfaces, analogue costs and digital costs. The NRK must produce what the UK calls an output mix. the share of content production, stabs and support functions and other activities, respectively, must be shown. Crystal-clear measurements shall be made for the relationship between these elements. These are not corporate secrets. The NRK’s activities are financed by the broadcasting fee, and the use of the licensor’s money is per year. definition of a public matter. I will come back later to concrete requirements for new reporting by the NRC and the objectives to be set in the future for improving the efficiency of the use of licence fees. This won't happen arbitrarily. The process and the design of the target shall, of course, take place in dialogue with the NRK. Finally, let me take the opportunity to say a few words about the management of the NRK. I am concerned that the Government's management of the NRK must be exercised at an overall level. The company must have free powers in relation to day-to-day operations and purely business aspects. It follows from the fact that the Storting has chosen the form of a limited liability company for the organisation of the company. Furthermore, editorial freedom must be a fundamental principle for the governance of the company by the authorities. This, of course, does not mean that I will not be involved in a vital exchange of views on the company's welfare or that the Government will refrain from taking the necessary decisions on the future of the company and, to the extent necessary, present these decisions to the Stortinget. As I have pointed out several times in this statement, the Government will return to Stortinget with this case complex as soon as it can be done. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the board of directors of the NRK is doing a very good job with the key challenges that the company is now facing. The new broadcasting director has been appointed. Furthermore, the NRK strategy proposal in the digital media and the balancing of the economy are well under way, and there is a good dialogue between the NRK and the owner. The role of the NRK in cultural policy is probably more important than ever. The company's termination also defends the broadcasting licence. Programme production is vital and of good quality. The world's seven largest media companies sell annually for more than Norway's gross domestic product. These companies are larger than our own country's total economy. It is not an exaggeration to claim that there are strong forces knocking on the door when digitalization hits us too fully. The government wants a well-run and open company that best manages the licensor's money. Increased demands will result in an agreement between the company, the owner and the licensee, which aims to achieve the best possible and most widely available broadcasting for the money. No one should believe that the major challenges are solved by itself, or that the position of the NRK can be secured by a single proposal. The future is created every day. The position of the NRK is ensured day by day by day through the efforts of the employees of the company. Storing and government shall ensure good framework conditions and adequate freedom of action for the country's main cultural institution. We are working on these challenges continuously, and will provide some of the answers to how the NRC can maintain and strengthen its position in the announced media release and in the 2002 state budget. It's a demanding, but no impossible job at all. Since the first transmissions, the NRK has been a decisive national building factor for Norway as a social and cultural community. I'm optimistic and believe that the role of the NRK is at least as important in the time that comes. And the government will facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e311	The President will propose that the Minister of Culture's presentation be discussed at a later meeting. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e325	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 70 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e336	The decisions taken today by the Stortinget will form the basis for the most radical change in petroleum policy since the establishment of Statoil at the beginning of the 1970s. Sub-privatisation of Statoil and conversion of completely central parts of the petroleum policy will be maintained as one of the most important issues dealt with and addressed by the Stortinget during this large-scale period. It is therefore a significant strength that there is a broad majority behind today's decision. Although there are four parties, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, which are behind the Statoil agreement, all parties have been prepared to compromise and find broad solutions. Major parts of the suspension have also been approved by the entire Committee. As rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its constructive and effective work. The previous oil comparisons have both remained for almost 15 years. The decision to establish Statoil as the State's instrument of petroleum policy at the beginning of the 1970s was anchored in a broad political consensus. The same was true of the creation of the country's direct economic involvement, the DIE, in the mid-1980s, which would limit Statoil's power and ensure the State a greater share of the rent. What the duration of this oil deal will be, no one has been given to know, but the comparison differs from the previous two by the fact that it bears less the mark of a one-off operation and gives more room for further policy conversion, and for dynamic development in industry. There have always been and there will still be discussions on important aspects of petroleum policy. But this has not hindered good compromises. The broad similarities have created confidence in the political system and predictability of the framework conditions. For the petroleum sector this is very important. Now we're at a crossroads and we're going to make some basic choices. The majority of the population points out the direction: 1st@item: inlistbox The primary oil company Statoil is privatised in order to provide the company with new opportunities for development and to promote more efficient operation.2. The sale of a significant proportion of the country's direct economic exposure, SAD, is opened up in order to promote a more rational structure and increased value creation on the socket.3. A completely new management system is established for the rest of the EEAS, which will aim at maximising the country's income from its shares.4. A new gas transport structure is established which will initially ensure competitive neutrality through the establishment of a new carrier and, in the next round, will provide a basis for more efficient operation through the establishment of a common carrier of the transport systems. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left represent a broad majority. The decisions will create robust framework conditions for one of our most important industries. In 2000 came about 25 p.m. the country's revenues from the petroleum sector. Norway is the world's sixth largest oil producer and the third largest oil exporter. Norway is among the world’s ten largest gas exporters. In key European consumer countries such as Germany and France, Norway has a market share of between 20 and 40 pst. Norway has built up a high level of technological competence, and in several areas we are in the international urban area. This has not come about by itself. We're lucky to be left out by nature. But without capable companies and employees and mainly a successful policy, we would not have been there today. Someone chooses to look back and hold on to what was once. Our petroleum history is a story of many good results. Now that the changes are coming, it is not because the policy has failed, but because the world around us is changing: Oil and gas markets are deregulated. The competition to attract capital, technology and human resources has increased as many countries have opened up to international companies. We are witnessing extensive restructuring in the oil and gas industry through mergers, acquisitions and the establishment of new alliances. Former state-owned oil companies are fully or partly privatised. In addition, Norwegian pedestal has entered a more mature phase. Several of the major fields have already passed their maximum production capacity and are on their way into the tail phase. It's done less and less. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is still the potential for new and significant findings and stable and long-term production. These challenges must be met offensively. In other words, we are not changing the instruments for the sake of change, but because we want to maintain and further develop the petroleum sector in Norway. We will ensure that the petroleum sector will continue to contribute to industrial development in our long-term country. And we want to ensure that the sector is also a major contributor to funding the welfare community in the future. If we are to achieve this, we must ensure that Norwegian capital remains an attractive investment area in the future, and that Norwegian companies strengthen their competitiveness. We will see Statoil and Norsk Hydro claim among the best, and we want the international companies to continue to invest capital and technology and use their best people on Norwegian pedestal. This is why we are facilitating increased value creation, diversity and competition. Repeatedly, the petroleum sector has been designated as a sunset industry. Now we know better. New forecasts show that the oil will also be as important as the gas in the next 30 years. Many suggest that the oil and gas sector remains one of Norway’s most important industries throughout this century. In other words, we are talking about a future-oriented industry, an industry with great potential for growth and development. But this long perspective doesn't come of itself. It is the technology that gives us new opportunities to extract ever greater shares of oil and gas resources in the individual fields. A few days ago, Statoil was able to state that they are now seeing the possibility of extending operations on Statfjord until 2020, because technological progress makes it possible to extract more of the oil and gas in the field. It could increase revenue by up to NOK 120 billion. If we are to achieve this long-term perspective with the opportunities it offers for value creation, well-being and industrial development, we must facilitate diversity and competition. More thinking better than one. Furthermore, it is necessary to focus on research and further build-up of petroleum competence. Today, the country draws more than half of the profit achieved through technological progress. The state’s contribution to research and development is disproportionate. It is therefore an overall committee which calls for an increase in State contributions to petroleum research. We expect the Government to come back with concrete proposals in the context of the 2002 budget. The petroleum sector also needs new labour. And here are many exciting opportunities for those who will invest in a forward-looking industry that is increasingly dependent on technological progress and new competences. The industry itself has a significant responsibility, but the authorities must also help to get more Norwegian young women and men to invest in the petroleum sector. I want to link some comments to some points in the setting: The majority propose that Statoil be listed and partially privatised with one third of the company’s value. In the case of stock exchange listings, the majority recommends the inclusion of new owners with holdings equal to 15-25 pst. However, we point out that UBS Warburg recommends a first sale of 20 pst. This provides the Ministry with the necessary flexibility to find the best priced level of sales. A dominant state ownership results in an experience-based lower price of listed companies, that the shares are sold on a discounted basis. The government’s proposal that the State retain at least two thirds of Statoil’s shares would give a negative signal to the market. The majority have therefore removed this absolute limit from the setting. We also clarify the purpose of the State co-ownership in Statoil: ‘to ensure that the company is anchored with its head office in Norway. A partially privatised Statoil shall have full commercial freedom.’;» This clarification provides a good basis for the Storting to allow for further privatisation of Statoil at a later stage. For the Right, it will be a long-term goal to reduce state ownership to one-third. The majority opens up to 21,5 pst. by the value of DEVICE may be sold: 15 pst. for Statoil and 6.5 pst. to Norwegian Hydro and other companies. BEHAVIOUR has proved to be a robust tool to ensure the State a greater share of the rent on land from oil and gas resources. Thus, DIE complements the tax revenue. At the same time, it is important to recognise that the state's revenues from the petroleum sector depend on the fact that companies have framework conditions that promote maximum value creation. The purpose of the sale of SEDØE shares is to facilitate a more rational structure and efficient operation, thereby increasing the value creation of the socket. It is well documented that targeted sales can ensure this and thus increase the income of society from the petroleum industry. But it is not immaterial which parts of the land are sold by the state. The State should retain significant shares in the major oil and gas fields. These shares are purely money machines for the state. I would like the Council of State to note that the majority emphasises that consideration of long-term gas management requires particular caution in the sale of shares in the major gas fields. With these restrictions, there are still significant shares that can be sold again. The majority are concerned that sales of SEDØE shares should promote regionalisation and contribute to the development of small fields. If value added can be increased by more than 21,5 pst. it will be sold both in the interests of the companies and of the State. The majority therefore ask the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of this issue once the first round of sales has been completed. The new SE shall assess on an ongoing basis whether the exchange or sale of its shares may increase the income of the State and, in the event that it proposes this for the general meeting of the company, the Council of State. It is an absolute prerequisite that the new DØE company should not develop into a new state oil company, but have a small and efficient organisation. I refer in this way to the limitations that should apply to the company, which are stated in the proposition and in the setting. However, I would like to emphasise two prerequisites that are important for the company not to esera. The first is that the portfolio must concentrate on a limited number of fields and extraction permits. This can be achieved through the sale or exchange of units. If the country takes shares in new fields, it must be limited to those areas which are assumed to have additional resources. Secondly, it is essential that the company avails itself of the right to use the manager. The partial privatisation of Statoil and the changes in the gas market make it necessary to modify the structure and organisation of the gas transport system. The majority agree with the Government's proposal to establish a State carrier for natural gas. However, the majority request that the government share be reduced rapidly to 51 pst. by inviting producer companies on the owner’s side. It is important that the gas transport system creates neutrality and promotes efficiency. It is in Norwegian interests that the company collects its profits in the fields and not in the transport system. In order to increase incentives for efficient operation, the majority will establish as soon as possible a joint ownership company of the gas transport systems mainly based on GasLed. It is in line with previous proposals made by the companies. The majority ask the Ministry to invite companies to negotiate so that this new structure can be established as soon as possible. I assume that the Council of State will take such an initiative with the first. When the State is both the owner, legislator, controller and tax collector, role conflicts can easily arise. A justification for sub-privatisation of Statoil is to reduce the potential for such conflicts. However, today's decision does not remove them. The State will continue to be a dominant owner in Statoil, and two new state companies, one for HOUSE and the other for gas transport will be established. Reducing the State’s interests will be the main instrument for further reducing the risk of role conflicts. But the way in which the state organizes its operations and the way in which the state acts as owner is also important in this context. These are issues that the Government has to consider, and it will be natural that the Storting is involved in this process in the next round. I can't hide that this is a joyous day for the Right. Over many years, the Right has gone into the gap for the sub-privatisation of Statoil. Of the lots included in the agreement, the right is the only programmed sub-privatisation of Statoil during this period. Although the Right primary would have done something different and at several points would have gone further already now, today's decision is a significant step in the right direction. Exchange listing and partial privatisation of Statoil will give us a more efficient company. The sale of SEDØE shares will increase the value creation on the Norwegian base. Today's decision provides a basis for dynamic development in industry and for further policy conversion. The Committee's perspective is long-term. The conversion of petroleum policy adopted by the majority today provides a basis for industrial development and greater value creation for the benefit of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e464	I have listened with interest to Mr. Sanner's comments. However, I am somewhat surprised that Sanner and Right can participate in such a compromise all the time that you put up here for a solid favorization of Statoil with regard to the sale of SEDØE shares, and that as a result you don't get a proper price, and that you don't want to sell more than a third of Statoil's shares in the market. This will also give a huge discount on the shares. In a chronicle in Today's Business 29 March, Sanner's party trap, former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, writes among others. with regard to the sale of SDE shares, it is necessary first to ‘assess where sales can provide a better structure of property and then to see whether the amounts are appropriate to overall views’. He goes on to write: «I also share the doubts expressed by several as to whether the proposed procedure would really lead to a satisfactory price for the State.» As regards the partial privatisation of Statoil, he claims: ‘Whenever you want to do so at last, you should take it into account so that you can achieve your purpose and get a real price.’ He also signals that he believes that two thirds of the company can be sold. Willoch's views on this matter are identical to the comments and proposals of the Progress Party. I would therefore ask the representative, Mr Sanner, why don't Sanner and the Right listen to these reasonable views from their party trap, which was actually one of the main architects behind the introduction of DIE?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e483	I am far from sure that former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch would nod to the reply of the representative Mr Voksdal and agreed that the views and proposals of the Progress Party on this matter are identical to those of Mr Willoch. I think maybe the representative, Mr. Waksdal, should stick to his own program and not draw Willoch into it. As I said in my post, it's quite obvious that right in a number of areas would have done this differently. In a number of areas, we would also go beyond what we've been able to get the majority to do. But we see the compromise as a significant step in the right direction. We see the compromise as a basis for a further policy change. So, of course, you can choose, as some parties have done, to sit on the side line with their primary perceptions. The right has wanted, within the limits that lie, to make the reconciliation as good as possible. We believe that this is a good deal. It is a significant step that the Stortinget now partially privatises Statoil by one third. It is a significant step that the Storting opens to sell 21,5 pst. the door for further sale is closed by the floor and also by the door for further sale. It could increase the value creation of Norwegian capital to the joy of Norwegian society. The representative, Mr. Vaksdal, questions the sale of 15 pst. by HOUSE to Statoil. The sale is justified by the fact that it will increase value creation. If such a sale can help to increase the value creation on a Norwegian base, we believe that it is a correct sale by up to 15 pst. But it is well known to the representative of Vaksdal that the Right had wanted to increase in particular the proportion to be sold to Norsk Hydro and the other companies, both to maintain a better balance between the two Norwegian companies and to be able to sell more to the foreign companies in order to increase the diversity of the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e492	We shouldn't brag too much of the right side, but let me start by following up what Mr. Sanner said about the committee and giving homage to his work as spokesman, failing in the political discrepancy between us. I have great understanding that this is a joyous day for the Right. It's clear that now the Right gets through the first step of its policy. One gets the privatisation that a long time has wanted, and one gets more market power, which Right wants. It is particularly gratifying that the Right can stimulate some of its core selections in the consulting and consulting agencies with a billion dollars in profits. What I would like to ask about, is something that is in the text itself, namely this with the head office problem. True says that the primary part of the next round is to privatize down to a third. But my question is in relation to Stavanger and head office. Isachsen, who was on the phone in the committee, was very clear that by starting a privatisation, it will lead in the next round to a move of the head office out of Stavanger, and Statoil's head office can then end up in the city of friendship with Stavanger, Houston/Galveston. What's your point of view really true about this? When one gives away democratic governance, doesn't it necessarily mean that one gives away the right to control in relation to the head office position? Finally, the Centre Party and SV have a far-sighted and forward-looking proposal for the environment. True talk about "looking back". Why does the Right Looking Back when it's up to putting leads for Statoil towards what we see from BP and Shell, easy to bet on the environment and bet on alternative, renewable energy? Why doesn't Right want to be on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e503	That's right, as the replicator says, this is a happy day for the Right. Of the parties that have entered into the agreement, we are the only ones who have programmed the partial privatisation of Statoil during the current major period, and we are pleased that we are now getting an impact on this. It is quite obvious that the reconciliation and conversion now taking place in the field of petroleum policy are a step towards a better balance between public and private and a better balance between national and international. So we're excited that we're now taking a significant step in the right direction. It is also right that the majority clarify the purpose of state ownership. In fact, it is one of the most important points in the majority position, stating that the very purpose of state participation is to ensure that the company is anchored with its head office in Norway. And I underline the purpose, for the other purposes, which SV would certainly be concerned with the state going into and ruling in Statoil, has joined the majority. Statoil shall have full commercial freedom and it is necessary to ensure that Statoil is a competitive company and shall be able to compete on equal terms with the other companies. Today, state or state companies face considerable market scepticism. When we clarify the purpose of state ownership, it will also enable Statoil to compete on equal terms with other companies. For the Right, it is important that Statoil is anchored with head office in Norway. We believe that this is important in order to achieve the synergies for industrial development that we want to participate in the whole of Norwegian society. By keeping a third, you will also be able to maintain that right of governance in Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e517	I found it interesting to hear how the representative Jan Tore Sanner assesses the so-called compromise reached by the majority in Stortinget. It's interesting because this clearly shows that it's not meant to be any kind of end-station, even for the next few years, but that the compromise has to be seen as a first step in a further development, towards more privatisation and in the direction of selling out a larger part of the day-sites than the one in the decision that is probably made here later today. And that's an understanding and an interpretation of the compromise that's very interesting. Such an interpretation must necessarily have a challenging effect on the other parties involved in the compromise. They will probably, and probably in this debate, have to come up with their reason for joining in. I just want to be on the safe side to ask the representative Jan Tore Sanner if he can confirm quite clearly here that the compromise is to perceive as, as he said, a step in the right direction. And in that case, how far will the Right go in the direction of selling out those parts? What, then, is the goal? Where is the end station of the process that this compromise announces?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e524	There is an interesting distinction that has been made clear in Norwegian policy in recent years, and there is a distinction between the static parties and the dynamic parties. SV and the Center Party belong to the typical static parties. That is why the representative John Dale is also talking about end stations. We are concerned with a dynamic development in the market, which is why we are also concerned with the dynamic development of the instruments. We are changing the policy now, not for the sake of change, but to preserve and further develop the importance of the petroleum sector for Norway. That's the central one. If today's decisions had represented an end-station, we wouldn't have taken into account that the market is changing and that the world around us is changing. Nor would we have had the approach to the policy that we have, and that is why I say that the compromise itself is a foundation for dynamic development in industry and for a further policy transformation. Then, of course, there will be different views between the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left about how radical this might be – of course! That is why we will also have new debates in 5, 6 or 7 years if we are to move forward in the privatisation process. I show you briefly; I show you where the Right is in that debate. In the case of DEATH, there is no objective in itself of selling out as much as possible, but it is an objective that we should have maximum value creation on Norwegian pedestal to the benefit of Norwegian society, to the pleasure of Norwegian taxpayers and to the delight of those who use the welfare services in Norway. That's what the Lactus Test for the Right is, it's going to increase the value creation on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e537	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e541	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Jan Tore Sanner. He has handled this matter very well. I would also like to pay tribute to the three other parties which form part of the majority and which have contributed to a clean and constructive process. Inner. S. No 198, which was now released before Easter, contains a historical oil and gas policy compromise. I believe that the future will characterize this compromise in line with that of 1984, for example. Statoil was divided and DEATH was established. The forward-looking content of the suspension is very important for Norwegian industry in general and the Norwegian oil sector in particular, and for Norwegian government finances. In August 2000, there were 73 647 employees in this industry. The total worth of Norwegian society in 2001 was NOK 2 050 billion. In other words, there are significant things in the Norwegian oil and gas industry and in total for the Norwegian society we are talking about here. Long-term intervention in Norwegian industrial policy must now be undertaken. And that's what we're doing. In other words, we need to focus more strongly on distribution and value creation in a broad sense, which means that we need to facilitate future ownership of natural resources, among others. on the pedestal, which contributes to the greatest possible value creation in addition to the ‘mining operation’ itself on the pedestal. Although Norway is still one of the world’s leading oil and gas exporters and a major energy nation in Europe, we can still lose out in the competition for the important market positions if we do not do anything. Let me start by saying something about the international development of the oil and gas sector, a development characterized by mergers and alliances. In a few years, both global competition and the corporate structure of the oil and gas sectors have changed dramatically. Globalisation, in the form of open and competitive markets, is driving forward significant international structural changes in the form of larger units and, above all, specialisation. This industry is in the process of being dominated by major players with the power to redefine the rules of the energy market. Questions can be asked whether the Norwegian oil companies today have a financial backbone to participate in this restructuring process – if we do nothing. Among the oil companies, we see mergers and mergers at a high rate and on a large scale. Chevron bought Texaco. Eleven, Total and Fina have joined forces – to mention some examples. In short, it means that Statoils and Norsk Hydro's competitors have become fewer, they have become larger and much stronger through new partnerships and alliances. In the mid-1980s, there were whole or state oil companies in about 80 countries in the so-called capitalist part of the world. The United States was one of the very few exceptions. However, the situation has changed fundamentally. In the last 15 years, there has been a major international privatisation of state companies. Norway is one of the few countries in the OECD area that still have a 100 pst. State oil company. This trend shows that the government’s proposal for the partial privatisation of Statoil is not unique in an international context. In the current situation, with the increased internationalisation of the oil and gas industry, it is very important that Statoil is given the opportunity to develop further as a solid Norwegian energy company. The partial privatisation of Statoil is not an end in itself. Statoil must have frameworks that enable it to assert itself internationally and to participate in all parts of oil and gas production – upstream – and refining, distribution and sale to end-users – downstream. Statoil needs to be given greater competitiveness and size and better opportunities to enter into alliances in order to face stronger competition both at home and outside. We believe that partial privatisation will provide Statoil with opportunities for growth, development, international engagement and alliance construction. A strengthened Statoil will provide positive ring-effects for the whole oil and gas sector and for other Norwegian businesses. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that the activities on Norwegian pedestal contribute to the industrial development of Norway. It concerns both exploration and production activities, expansions, operations and maintenance, land-based oil and gas processing, and research and development. The Norwegian supplier industry is an important part of the overall Norwegian oil environment, and much of the technological development is taking place in the interaction between the supplier industry and the oil companies. The proposal provides a detailed description of the reasons why a new intervention in Norwegian oil and gas policy was now needed. I will briefly mention the following: Norwegian continental shelf is in a mature phase. ‘The mixture’, or the rights-holder structure, on the Norwegian pedestal is complicated. Internationalisation and globalisation have opened up new areas of petroleum to competition. A significant consolidation has taken place in the sector. Significant changes have occurred in the European gas market. There has been so much force for Norwegian oil and gas policy that it has been based on the widest possible political consensus. It has given credibility and predictability to a very important part of Norwegian policy. During the examination in the Committee of St.prp. No 36, Ownership of the Statoil and future management of the Dead Sea, the Government and the Workers Party have succeeded in bringing together a broad political majority on the oil policy of the future, based on the main structure presented by the Government in the proposition. This majority consists of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, which together make up 118 of 165 big business representatives. It's the three largest parties on the Stortinget that are part of this majority. It's interesting to notice that the center parties have once again separated layers, and that in such an incredibly important and fundamental matter as this. The centre party has literally found itself on a different parcel here than the Christian People's Party and the Left. The position of the Committee is consistently characterised by a robust majority. The majority are grouped behind all parts of the setting. None of the parties making up this majority promotes their own proposals or specific comments, which implies predictability and stability for the industry in the future. The plural setting differs from the Government proposal on two points: The shares to be sold are increased from 20 pst. to 21,5 pst. I believe that this cannot be characterised as a dramatic change to the Government's proposal, even though there is a large amount of kroner here. The interval of the first sale in Statoil has changed from 10 to 25 pst. up to 15-25 pst. the value of the company. This is also outrageous. The total amount of sales open is limited to 1/3 of the company’s value. This is in line with the Government's proposal. All other decisions in the matter will be identical to the Government's proposals in the proposition. This means that the Government's proposal for a new public limited liability company for the maintenance of SøE, a new public limited liability company for gas transport, the exchange of ownership interests in pipeline systems between the State and Statoil and the payment by Statoil for SøE shares is adopted. As a result of a partial privatisation of Statoil and changes in the organisation of gas sales, it is necessary to adjust the gas transport system. The Government has proposed the creation of an independent natural gas transport company and is justified by the need to ensure the efficiency, neutrality and further development of the transport system. The majority of the Committee supports the transfer of operator responsibility for the gas transport company from the current operator and is anchored in a new public limited-liability company before the partial privatisation of Statoil takes place. It is also open to ownership in the transport company where the producer companies are also involved, but the State must retain a holding of at least 51 pst. The majority of the Committee considers it desirable that the changes in the transport organisation should not have undue adverse effects on Statoil. Therefore, it is foreseen that all technical operational tasks may continue to be carried out by the organisations that carry them out today, so that they are responsible for future industrial development in the Kårstø area. This means that the jobs associated with today's Buildings and Kårstø operational organisation are maintained. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Government will consider specific measures to stimulate the demand for Statoil shares of retail investors. The majority also emphasise the importance of having Norwegian private shareholders in Statoil. In order to stimulate small savers to buy shares in Statoil, we believe specific measures are necessary. We're asking the ministry to make it happen. It's positive that the majority agreed on this point in the setting. We believe that both the Norwegian state and Statoil will benefit from the changes that are being adopted today. In addition, Norsk Hydro and other companies will be able to buy significant shares of SøE, which the companies have been interested in, and that is very positive. In my view, the setting contains a forward-looking and long-term oil and gas policy that will be well ahead. Finally, I would like to add that this is also largely based on what the Labour Party's policy has now provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e620	First, let me congratulate Nordtun and the Workers' Party on finally seeing the sense of part-privatisation and listing Statoil, and welcome them after. A partial privatisation also updates restructuring and changes in the management of RED. In the compromise on which the Labour Party is involved, it is proposed to sell 21,5 pst. of the shares, by 15 pst. for Statoil and 6.5 pst. to Hydro and the others, as it is called. This is a clear favourite of Statoil, and partly also Hydro, and corrected sales will not give the right market price for these shares either. Statoil has been selected on the top shelf for many years and has been awarded many of the good bits on the base. Unfortunately, the company’s results have not been proportionate. I would therefore like to ask the representative Nordtun: why should one continue to favour Statoil in relation to the other companies? And does not the representative Nordtun and the Workers' Party see that this Norwegian protectionism can harm Norwegian companies' international efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e629	The representative Vaksdal noted that there is a great deal of favorisation of Statoil, etc., and that it has happened throughout the story, since the oil business began in the early 1970s. This is a very serious claim, and I stress that it is a claim from the Waksdal. I believe that the Progress Party is most alone in those claims. There has been a great deal of consensus in the Norwegian collapse since the start of this industry and its development, that we should also build Norwegian companies, make them robust and force them to participate in the important part that the oil and gas industry represents for the Norwegian economy, Norwegian employment and in the Norwegian future. We had to build a company from the ground up. I have to say that it would have been a tragedy for the Norwegian community if we were just to bring in foreign companies, so that they would develop the unique resources we have in Norway and we wouldn't be able to build a Norwegian industry at all. Statoil has done a very good job and has shown very good results. They have developed an expertise and a professional environment in these areas of which there is great respect. Now we also have to give Statoil the opportunity in the future that they will not only be on Norwegian pedestal and die on Norwegian pedestal, but that they will also be on Norwegian pedestal and become strong, and not only there, but also abroad. Therefore, Statoil should now also be allowed to purchase shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e638	Both in his post and in the line change afterwards, the representative Jan Tore Sanner asserts that the compromise that the representative Tore Nordtun calls historic will mean the start of a process that opens up to a much larger hall of SEDØE parts than the enlargement decision today will cover. The representative Truer belongs to the 'dynamic' school and, in this context, is not the smallest value conservative. Does the representative of Nordtun not see here a danger that this so-called dynamic will soon be able to blow up the healthy compromise? Does the compromise, in the light of what we now hear, have a chance of standing up for a time, so that there can be stability in oil and gas policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e643	I would have been very happy if I could reassure the representative Dale that we would go into less danger in the future in many areas. I can't do that, unfortunately. But the Storting decides a series of laws from time to time – almost every day – to protect us from all the dangers we are exposed to. It's a big challenge. We have clearly stated from the Labour Party what our position on this matter is. Nor in the setting have we said anything about what the future will bring. We're selling SAD shares corresponding to 21,5 pst. of the value of the SDEE, and we insist that up to one third of the company's value is to be part-privatised. But then I have to say to John Dale, what a big deal that will sit here in 2015 or 2020 is neither John Dale nor me given to shoot. But we're fighting our active political struggle to have it the way we're doing it now in the oil and gas industry. But we accept that the Right also has a program they're working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e652	Sometimes it is possible not to be part of the ‘good company’, especially when the good company consists of the right side of Norwegian policy, a right side that will deliver the most possible of the people’s property and transfer it to private. Getting it out is important to me. I can understand that both the Progress Party and the Right ‘takes the wave’ today. Finally, they have managed to do what labour movement and the Labour Party has previously fought against: privatising a public owned company and launching the process of something that will eventually end up in the private sector. It is the Working Party, the modern Working Party, of today, the modern, pragmatic, flexible – all the fine words that all «modern» use. It's the Workers' Party's true face of today. A Workers' Party, which, after the appointment of its leader, Østerud, is involved in moving power from democratic organs into the market. Today's politics abdicates in relation to Statoil, with the Labour Party at the head. I would like to have comments that the Labour Party is taking such a role in relation to the ideological profile of the Labour Party. So it's a little strange, I thought, when the Center Party and SV say that the Government's proposal for HOUSE is good, we're going for it. But then they come to the Storing, and then they say no, they won't support the Government's proposal. Rather, the Labour Party will go to the Right and cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party on something that, according to the Government, is worse. I thought it was strange that the Labour Party beats the government for an offer for which it could have been plural in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e663	The Labour Party also sees responsibility for the development of industrial policy in Norway. And when we see the actual value of Norwegian pedestal, what we get out of it, and how we can further industrialize Norwegian pedestal, we're convinced that the grips we're doing now are in the right direction and will increase the value of Norwegian society and Norwegian citizens. It's important that we do. And that's why we're putting forward the future-oriented industrial policy in the oil and gas industry. It would have been a tragedy if we were to withdraw in many ways now and say that we would not take any action at all, that we would not take any action for the value creation, from the oil flame in the North Sea to the gas flame in Paris. We have to be involved in all of that value creation. But I find that SV at all will not take a grip. They even talk about the sale of a Norwegian base. We're just asking the companies to do a job for the Norwegian community on a Norwegian pedestal after the rules we have. So the representative asked Langeland if it's done enough to get a majority of the government's policy in total on the 20 p.m. Yeah, I think so. And I think we could run a lot of slack here to get it done. However, in my opinion and in the view of the Labour Party, this is not a robust industrial policy. We can't base the important steps we're doing here on such a narrow majority in the Biggest. We have to have something that's a little bit further in time. It's like these four parties, which have different starting points and angles of incidence in this case, have come together and said that these grips we're doing together to get something else that can stand forward and that has great value for the Norwegian community. I am pleased that we have put small ‘tactiqueries’ aside to get this robustness in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e670	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e673	The size now deals with probably the most important case during this large-scale period. This applies in any case in economic terms and perhaps also when a person assesses the principle aspects of the matter. From the Christian People's Party we are therefore very pleased that we have succeeded in finding a broad settlement that brings together parties on both sides of the right/left axis of the Stortinget, and that will be robust and hold for the future as well. The Christian People's Party has always warned against slumbering in this matter. Despite the fact that we have basically been very close to the government party on the issue of sales of SDEE shares, we have believed that it is better to contribute to a broad and sustainable compromise than to get it on the millimetre as one wishes, and then to see the basis for structural changes crumbling over time. It's not in our national interest. With the Right, Left and Christian People's Party on the team – in addition to the Workers' Party – what we decide today will also stand after the election to the harvest, no matter which government constellation would be established. This is of invaluable importance for Statoil as a company and for the development on Norwegian base. A similar responsibility was also assumed by the parties in the Stortinget in the mid-1980s when the Willoch government presented proposals for major changes in Norwegian petroleum policy. I would like to give tribute to the rapporteur, Mr Sanner, from the Right, when we have also succeeded this time with a broad compromise. Before I go into the main questions, I want to highlight two important issues. One is the coherence and consistency of petroleum policy. What we are doing today is related to previous decisions on legislative changes through last year's oil notification and future decisions related to changes in petroleum taxation, which lie just around the corner, later on. It is very important that the decisions taken today are not undermined. This is a responsibility which the Government must take seriously and which the party groups in the Storting must ensure is respected. This includes, among other things: with the competitive position of Norwegian cap. The other aspect that needs to be underlined is petroleum research. The petroleum industry is a competence industry. The value added potential is significant. Relatively limited investments can be multiplied. The more important it is that research and development in this area be given priority. The Christian People's Party believes that public contributions to petroleum research and development need to be increased, and will ask the Ministry to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for different models to achieve this in next year's government budget. I ask the Council of State to note that a joint committee is asking for this and to strengthen research efforts under existing schemes, such as funds from the Research Fund or within the programmes of the Norwegian Research Council, or the so-called Demo 2000 programme. Then to the four main questions. The framework conditions for Statoil and for Norwegian petroleum policy have changed. An important change occurred when Statoil was no longer to be a political instrument, favored on Norwegian pedestal and subject to political governance, but operated on business terms. This change was made by Stortinget and has also laid the basis for the decision we are going to take today. Statoil is now competing in the same line with other companies – kind of. Another major change has occurred internationally. The world has changed. The market has changed. Competition is tougher, both between companies and between different countries' sockets. Structural changes are the rule rather than the exception, and buying-in processes are governed by the principle of self-eating or self-eating. In addition, Norwegian pedestal is in a new phase – a maturation phase – that imposes requirements on companies other than before. In other words, the framework conditions have changed significantly. In such a situation, does Statoil compete on the same lines with other companies? No, not really. Because Statoil is a 100 pst. State-owned company is now risking the company in strong and tough international competition to experience the exact opposite. The company often has slower decision-making procedures, clearances take time and an operator tends to be less efficient. From having framework conditions and arrangements that favour the company, there is now a framework condition that works in the company's disfavor. Statoil is getting worse competitive conditions than other companies. This may contribute to the loss of revenue by the State rather than to making more money. That's why the Christian People's Party wants change. We want a different structure, where Statoil gets conditions that are more in line with other companies, and we want Norwegian base to be attractive for investment and further investment. It involves aid for sub-privatisation. Other arguments also support this. This applies both to greater principal cleanliness, where one avoids the fact that the State sits on absolutely all sides of the table, and to the need for a market surveillance of the company. Listed companies go to exams every day. They have to show what they're doing. This exposure leads to companies having to work effectively and to aggravate themselves. Our state petroleum company has so far avoided this despite the annual valuations. We believe that listing will help us to get a more competitive Statoil internationally. Therefore, the Christian People's Party also believes that it should open up to new owners in Statoil with 1/3 of the company's value. New owners should be admitted corresponding to 15-25 pst. of the value, in a combination of the issue and the sale of the State's shares. It also means that the head office is located in Norway, and in Stavanger. So for the sale of those shares. There are clear parallels between the need to change the ownership of Statoil and the need to change the structure of BEES on the base. The structure of the so-called cadastral mixture of cadastral parcels has in many cases led to increased costs and less extraction. These include: on the bias of ownership structure between different fields in the same extraction area. Restructuring ownership interests in these fields can contribute to a significant increase in value creation and performance. At the same time, there is considerable uncertainty about the figures, as shown by the many different calculations. The variation, however, is about how much greater the performance becomes, and it should be reassuring. At the same time, there is a difference between these partly uncertain calculations and the revenue automatically received as part of the country's cash flow. HOUSE has proved to be a very good and robust tool to secure the state rent. These are «bankers» and much more «bankers» than more indirect income via the sale of shares, increased extraction and tax revenue. BEHAVIOUR should be maintained as an important tool in Norwegian petroleum policy. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that one should be able to take shares in new fields as well, even though it should be to a lesser extent than before. Therefore, we also believe that there is a basis for prudentness in the volume of sales of SDEE shares. The starting point on our part was close to the government, while on our part we wanted to show the will to find common solutions. The Christian People's Party wanted a better balance between Statoil and Hydro, and an extension of the sale to 21,5 pst. of the shares in the common interest contribute to correcting this bias. Now it's going to be 6.5 pst. to Hydro and others, an increase of about 30 pst, while Statoil receives 15 pst. These shares should now be used to better balance the ownership structure in important fields, to strengthen the shares of operators, to invest in small fields and to enhance diversity and competition. However, let me underline two aspects when the Government is now going to complete the sale. Firstly, we need to ensure that a targeted sale to smaller companies can bring about the extraction of the small fields. Sale of floor coverings must now ensure vacuuming of the base. There must be room for this within the frame of the 21,5 pst. and the additional mandate received by the Government in relation to the optimisation of the DEA structure. It wants the majority of the population that the government will come back to the next round. Secondly, we must ensure that the large ‘money machines’ remain on the government’s hand. This means that the State should retain significant shares in the major oil and gas fields. It is not natural for the Storting to enter and instruct the Council of State in the field and sell shares. But these are so great values that I assume that the Council of State not only takes the conclusions of the Storting as good and friendly advice, but follows up in practice. I ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government will follow up the clear message of the majority to show particular caution with the sale of shares in the major gas fields. Various objections have been raised from several teams in relation to the arrangements for sale of the car, including: the date of the sale of SDE shares in relation to the listing and selling method, stating that the auction would give the State more revenues and secured a more effective market price. In the balance between the need for corrected sales in order to achieve optimal restructuring and auctioning to ensure more buyers, we have rejected the auction. The consideration of the value creation potential weighed heavily. With auctioning, a risk may be left with a fragmented and low-performing structure in heavy extraction areas on the base. It will require new and costly redefinition and contribute to a lack of full value creation potential. Since more of the increase in revenue from the restructuring of the EEA is estimated to come from value creation in relation to the sale of shares, the Christian People's Party believes that the Government's proposal for a solution is better. There is also an open question as to whether such an operation would be satisfactory after Statoil is partially privatised and listed. Therefore, both the sale of SADØE shares before listing and the sale method are clearly recommended by almost all experts and analysts who have been heard. So to the HOUSE company. When Statoil is sub-privatised, it must automatically lead to a change in the day-to-day management system. That's also where the largest state values will still be. Therefore, the term ‘rest-day’ may be relatively misleading. The more important it is that the optimal management of the shares of the EEAS is facilitated. It is essential that the new company does not develop into a new large oil company. That's why they're setting the size now, important. This applies, inter alia, to: a restructuring of the portfolio, so that the company has a limited number of fields and extraction permits. On the voting side, no unilateral emphasis should be placed on majority shareholdings and the diversity of actors should continue to be safeguarded. The company shall not be granted an operating licence and shall not be able to apply for any new authorisation itself. Similarly, where this naturally coincides with the other portfolio, new SEDØE authorisations should be granted. At the same time, the company must have the competence to perform the management tasks satisfactorily. The company should be small and efficient, thus making it possible for managers to perform different tasks. On this basis, the Christian People's Party joins the Government's proposal to set up a new public limited liability company to attend to the EEAS. The Government proposes to restructure the natural gas transport system. This is also a natural consequence of the partial privatisation of Statoil and of the neutrality of gas transport systems. Changes in this area must take place before partial privatisation and stock exchange listing can take place. An independent public limited-liability company with operator responsibility for the gas transport operation is hereby appointed. In two important areas, Storting's approach differs from that of the Government. This concerns the arrangement and composition of the company, where we want to build on the so-called GasLed model, with a joint ownership company based on the owners and masters of the gas. This is a model that the companies themselves have designed. While the new company can assume the operator’s responsibility from the current companies and the functions related to the operator’s responsibility, Stortinget assumes that such a joint ownership company based on the GasLed model will be established as soon as possible. The State should retain a majority share in that company. This, in our opinion, will ensure stronger incentives for efficient operation and help bring down tariffs. The control centre of the Bygnes shall continue to operate the pipeline network. The second issue concerns the preservation of the environments and workplaces and the possibility of further industrial development in relation to gas transport systems, and in particular in the Kårstø area. And here, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, we will strongly stress that Statoil, on behalf of the owners of the Kårstø facilities, will continue to carry out all the technical operational and development tasks and will be responsible for any future industrial construction. There should be no doubt about this, and with the current setting, the Storting has pushed aside all doubts – this is what it will be. The Committee has carried out a very thorough examination of this matter. We have put to life – literally almost – thorough and very extensive investigations. We have heard researchers and experts on a large scale. We have conducted comparative studies through comiterations to Germany and the United Kingdom. We have heard hearings with all possible transparency and visibility. We have sent a large number of questions to the ministry, and we have had the Council of State in the committee for discussions. Nevertheless, many issues remain, issues related to the shares to be sold, issues related to valuations, and not least the pricing of State shares – billions of which are involved in each field – issues related to the implementation of an exchange quotation and a number of other issues. I think our decisions are right. When it comes to writing history, however, we cannot be sure of the judgment of history. In English, there is a good expression of such situations, and it is ‘to the best of my ability’ — not just doing its best, but making as good judgements as you can, based on the assumptions that exist. And so it is. Then you get to hope that the decisions we make today will also "hold" in the light of history. And I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e743	I have a few simple questions for the Christian People's Party. The first question is just about what the Christian People's Party went to vote on, whether they went to the elections to hand Statoil over to private, or whether to privatize Statoil. Was it the promises that one gave to the voters, or did they simply fail to make promises and act in an untimely way, to use a fine word? The second question is related to the Adult Declaration, which is very clear on this, and which the Center Party follows up, while the Christian People's Party and the Left fail the Adult Declaration. It states that Statoil’s core business should be ‘healed stately’. Is this what's happening here today, that a keeper Statoil as a whole state game? Is what is said in the Adult Declaration, simply bluff, or is there something new that has happened, which means that one both goes away from what one said in the election campaign, and one said in the Adult Declaration? So until that with values and environment and stuff, like Bondevik and the Christian People's Party say they're busy with. The centre party and SV have put forward a proposal to try to follow up what BP and Shell do on the environmental side, what big companies do. They commit themselves to working offensively to develop alternative, renewable energy sources. Why doesn't the Christian People's Party, like an environmental party, always support such a policy when one has the possibility, as one has today? It's completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e754	The President does not think the word 'bløff' is particularly useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e757	To Langeland's first question: it's actually that the Christian People's Party did not commit itself in any direction in the party program we've had in the current period. The adultås declaration was also negotiated after the election, and not before the election, so I do not think that we have made any major lifting break compared to the voters. At the same time, the world is changing, and in relation to the Waxenå Declaration, the world is changing even during the reign, and everyone knows that the three parties that were sitting there and negotiating were disagreeing on this issue, it was also in government and is now in the Stortinget. So to the second question. We fully agree with the importance of Statoil developing to become an energy company and not just a petroleum company, and thus also to bet more on new and renewable energy sources. There we agree with the views of the Centre Party and the SV, and as an environmental party it should be lacking! But the centre party and SV cannot manage Statoil's priorities with their order. When, in our time in Stortinget, we said that Statoil would operate on its own business terms, we actually denied ourselves the power to make political governance of Statoil's priorities, including investments in new and renewable energy sources. That battle is for the longest time lost also for the SV and the Center Party. In that case, one must reverse the Statoil policy and the relationship with state companies in general and state ownership. Having said that, I would also like to say that, of course, we will make strong calls to Statoil to give priority to that kind of bet. BP and Shell are private companies, and partly privatised companies, and despite privatisation, they have been able to prioritise and invest more in becoming energy companies and investing more in new and renewable energy sources. As you know, Shell is the largest investor in solar energy. I also believe that a partially privatized Statoil can learn from the efforts of these companies, and I know that there are some people here who have an influence on this, and I would like to encourage here from our side that Statoil prioritises new and renewable energy sources and becomes a whole energy company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e766	I think someone must have misunderstood. So today we are dealing with the privatisation of Statoil, and we can give a signal to adopt the goal of the company to be created. Hilde Frafjord Johnson says it's been run, we can't do it, we already have given up that control capability, we can't say anything about this with the environment – and maybe thank you and thank you for that. Is that what's the foundation hold? SV and the Central Party are very specific when it comes to what this company should have as its goal. Among other things, today the elected representatives have the right to vote for a proposal that says they should be offensive when it comes to alternative, renewable energy. Then it is my claim that if the Christian People's Party wants something and wants something in environmental and climate policy, they must support such a proposal. If they don't, they say, "No, they can only do what they want, we have nothing to do with it." Then my claim is that for the Christian People's Party, environment means extremely little.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e775	SV is usually concerned with the coherence of words and actions, and the adoption of Statoil objectives in this room has little value if investment does not result, and if there is no significant investment in crowns and ears in new and renewable energy sources. And it's the investment in new and renewable energy sources that's the scale of whether Statoil becomes a global energy company with a green profile. It's the scale, and so those tools don't have the Size. We cannot go into politics and instruct Statoil to make that kind of investment. So I maintain that the governing agent as SV – if I am not completely wrong – voted against the previous round, i.e. that the Stortinget was to deal with these companies operating on business terms, in fact still applies, and that it also deprives us of the opportunity to enter and manage Statoil's priorities. But I insist: we want this, we will make strong calls for this, and on that basis I actually expect BP and Shell to have a new colleague in terms of seeing that the new time has come for the petroleum companies by becoming large and heavy energy companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e780	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e783	Let me first point out that it is particularly important that the oil industry, rather than any other industry in Norway, needs long-term and predictable framework conditions, and that it is therefore important that the decision taken has a broad foundation in political environments. However, I am somewhat concerned about the content of the compromise that the four parties have agreed on in the vote, whether it is in the best interests of the oil industry or the owners of Statoil and the Norwegian people. Statoil was established in its time as an oil policy instrument for the Norwegian state. The situation today is quite different, and the company is now a fully integrated oil company in competition with others. The time is therefore overdue for the company to work under the same framework conditions as other oil companies, with a more competent and business-economic ownership, as we in the Progress Party have claimed for a number of years and several times suggested. In addition, it is essential that the company be assessed in the same way as other companies, and an exchange listing of the company will be an important parameter to achieve this. Today Statoil owns 100 pst. by the state or – rather – the Norwegian people. Why, then, can the Norwegian people not have any of the values that the company has today? The Progress Party proposes that 15 pst. of the shares of the company are distributed free of charge to all Norwegian citizens over the age of 18. This, in addition to giving some of the values to the real owners, the Norwegian people, will also be a gigantic adult training in how to treat shares. The compromise between the four parties opens up the possibility for Statoil to be sub-privatised with up to 1/3 new owners and for a first-time stock market introduction to sell 15-25 pst. by the company. Of course, this is a step in the right direction, but there are no signs of further sales beyond 1/3 of the company. This will, in my view, contribute to the company's shares being priced too low in the market. If the stock market knows that the company is to be owned forever and always with 2/3 of the Norwegian State, the attractiveness of the shares will be impaired, and this could in the worst case lead to a dividend discount of billions. The Progress Party proposes that an already stock exchange introduction signal that the country should sell down to 1/3 within a ten-year period. This will contribute to a better and fairer price for the shares. At the same time, a state ownership of 1/3 would guarantee unfortunate changes in the company's statutes. All right, let's go to bed. The direct economic involvement of the State was established with effect from 1 January 1985 by dividing Statoil’s Norwegian-socket extraction permits into a direct economic part of the State and an economic/industrial part of Statoil. Statoil has managed, on behalf of the State, the shares of SEDØE, which today consist of shares in 150 authorisations, which have totaled approximately approx. 44 pst. of the remaining resources in field in operation. A partial privatisation of Statoil is now updating a change in the SADØE management. The sale of shares of oil companies in the oil sector can be an important contribution to correcting distortions of ownership between different fields within the same extractive sector and which, in the current situation, may hamper the creation of value added. A sale can also contribute positively to the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. In order to achieve this and to obtain the best possible price for the individual shares, one must therefore initially treat all oil companies equally. In the compromise between the four parties, it is added to a corrected sale of 21,5 pst. of the shares of Statoil, Hydro ‘and others’ referred to in the proposal for a decision. And if you're studying the parties' comments in the setting, you'll see that this means 15 pst. for Statoil and the remaining 6,5 pst. to Hydro and others. In other words, it is added up to a solid pre-distribution of Statoil and partly also Hydro. With a targeted sale to these companies, the Norwegian State will not achieve a real market price for the shares. This too can, in the worst case, offer discounts in the billions class. SEDØE shares may also have varied the attractiveness of companies, e.g. companies already positioned in a licence may have a greater interest and thus be willing to pay more for a share than those previously not represented in the licence. This will not be clarified by a fixed sale, which is proposed by the four batches in the setting. It is also important to remember the negative signal effect that we give to the international oil environment if we drive protectionism and favour Norwegian companies, that this can be negative in the next round when Norwegian companies are going to bet internationally. In addition, the majority of investors want to set up a new public limited-liability company for the purpose of caring for the public sector. Instead, the Progress Party will transfer the management of the EEAS to the Swedish Social Security Fund with clear instructions to optimise the values of the units. We also open up the possibility of selling parts of the shares if this is economically advantageous to the country. However, it must be a prerequisite for any sale to be based on the auctioning principle, so that no one is assigned and thereby obtains the real market values of the units. In addition, we would like to provide for a further limitation of the shares in new fields and extraction permits, and that in the future, one will secure the country's cash flow from the socket through the tax system. As I said at the outset, a broad political anchoring behind a future oil policy is important. The compromise negotiated with regard to the partial privatisation of Statoil and the future management and restructuring of the EEAS has this anchoring, but the content is far from adequate in my opinion. The sale of Statoil shares and SDØE shares with huge discounts could not possibly be the best thing for the state or the Norwegian people. Furthermore, the distribution of individual companies will not strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian base to an appreciable extent. On the basis of this, I want to appeal to the majority that they are now making sense and not selling our legacy silver for cheap sales. I am somewhat more satisfied with the proposal for a decision on the transport company for natural gas, where the Progress Party is also part of the majority. The liberalisation of the gas market in Europe and the other organisation of gas sales, as well as the partial privatisation of Statoil, raise the question of ensuring neutrality of the gas transport system. Statoil has had the opportunity, through extensive operators, to build unique competences in this area. At the same time, Statoil's dominant position allows the company to realise competitive advantages. The proposal for a decision will, at my discretion, meet the requirement of neutrality, while maintaining the jobs associated with the current operational organisation of Buildings and Kårstø. The majority emphasises in its comments that the changes in the transport organisation shall not have undue adverse effects on Statoil and that it is therefore foreseen that all technical operational tasks will continue to be carried out by the organisations that carry them out today. In addition, Statoil shall, on behalf of the owners of Kårstø plants, be responsible for any future industrial development. And last but not least, I am pleased that the majority opens up a composition of ownership in the operator company where the producer companies are represented, following the so-called GasLed model, but so that the state still retains the majority of the company in order to ensure neutrality. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, on behalf of the Progress Party, and at the same time signal support for items 3 and 6 in the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e817	The representative of Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e822	The Progress Party is in agreement with the majority on many of the comments in the vote on Statoil and DØE. However, when we come to the conclusions on how Statoil should be specifically privatised and listed, the Progress Party – as so often before – has other proposals for solutions. It would be thought that it was also important for the Progress Party to contribute to a broad political consensus on the challenges of future oil and gas policy. In its proposal No. 2 goes into progress to give away 15 pst. of the Statoil shares and sell 20 pst., as the representative Vaksdal said. Selling to private small savers is not against us, but opening up a policy to give away government property, I'm skeptical to. I also think the market will be very difficult to give up at the same time and sell the same shares. The forward-looking party model must imply that the State receives too low sales revenue. When you know how busy the Advance Party is of market prices, this becomes strange. How does the Progress Party view this to happen? What prices does the Progress Party expect investors to pay for the sales shares when they know that the free shares can be traded next time at a much lower price?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e836	It's correct, as the representative Torny Pedersen says, that the Progress Party wants to give 15 pst. of Statoil's shares to the real owners, namely the Norwegian people. Why on earth shouldn't we be able to give some of the values to the Norwegian people? That's something we've also said and suggested earlier from this pulpit, but we haven't got a majority for it before, and unfortunately it doesn't look like we're going to get a majority for it today either. It is not as the representative Pedersen claims, that if a share is distributed free of charge, this would have a particular impact on the value of the shares. I think there's a much greater risk of weakening the value of the shares in the way that the majority here says, that one locks out that one should not share more than 1/3 of the company. That, I think, is a far greater risk to the pricing of the shares!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e844	Just let me repeat to the representative, Mr. Waksdal: it is not right that the setting locks anything. What is really being done is that there is no mention of any further sale or restriction for the future, so that it facilitates all eventualities on a case-by-case basis. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure a Statoil which, on the one hand, has full commercial freedom and financial strength to operate both nationally and internationally, while ensuring national governance and control of the company. The attitude reflects these considerations, which in my view have been well preserved by the majority of whom the Progress Party does not want to be part. The Progress Party will go further in the process, like towards full privatisation of Statoil, and my questions to the representative of Waksdal are as follows: Does the Waksdal see the resources on the socket as part of our national wealth? And how, if so, does the Progress Party think that, according to the purpose of the Progress Party, a company should operate in practice? How can we best preserve our national wealth in full understanding that we are talking here about a national state ownership that belongs to the people? How does the Progress Party view their company model as best they can?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e853	As I said in my post, and as is stated in the comments, the Progress Party wants the State to sell down to 1/3 of the shares in Statoil. We do not want a full privatisation of the company, as the representative Rahm here claims. In my post, I just underlined that 1/3 of the state's shareholding would prevent adverse changes to the company's statutes. Then the representative asked Rahm about my view of how we should manage the national wealth. That's exactly what I tried to say in my post when I took a distance from the parties that want to sell our «inferiority» on cheap sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e860	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e863	The government suggests in St. pp. No 36 to enable private stakeholders to become co-owners of Statoil, and to sell parts of DEATH, mainly to Statoil, but also to Hydro and other oil companies. The proposals mean that important parts of the oil policy will be reformed. This has to be, it's said, to be at the height of current challenges. Then you ask what arguments can be put into the field to make such big changes. For the Central Party, the main impression is clear: a little talk about sub-privatisation of Statoil. On the other hand, there are good grounds for appreciating existing ownership structures on the base, a certain percentage of DØE can be transferred to the oil companies in return for payment. The last one I'm going to come back to in the second part of my post. Centre parity will work towards: ‘Statoil shall continue to have a central position in Norwegian petroleum activities and be a full-time State company’. This formulation is taken from the program of the Centre Party. Today we follow up the contract with our voters. That's a democratic point. The program formulation, of course, binds the representatives of the Centre Party, but if not, the result would still be the same. Cork The Government or the support players in Stortinget have overestimated us that it is necessary to share Statoil. For Statoil is per. the date of a commercial operator on the Norwegian continental shelf. The company also engages internationally, and it can join strategic alliances with others. Statoil takes e.g. participate in partnerships with various other oil companies in Azerbaijan, Venezuela, Western Europe and outside Angola and Nigeria. After all, there is no evidence that oil companies that are wholly or partly private are more efficient in the production and search for oil and gas than Statoil, which is 100 pst. owned by the State. In the light of such a situation, of course, it is difficult to claim, as stated in the Government's document, that Statoil's internal culture and commercial freedom of action are a hindrance. Of course, opponents of privatisation are not blind to things that count the other way. It can be, for example, questions should be raised as to whether the country should take all the risks associated with rising involvement abroad, but the argument for maintaining an entire state-owned company weighs more heavily. As I said, the current Statoil operates commercially, and the company has no tasks before public administration. In itself, however, it is not good enough as a basis for state ownership. If a state enterprise acts and behaves as if it were private, the enterprise may as well be privatised. However, the state has enough things to take care of. The centre party wants Statoil to be presented with a profile reflecting that the state is an active owner. Section 10 of Statoil's statutes allows the state to influence all matters that need to be accounted for in order to have great political and principle value and/or issues that can have a major impact on society and society economy. The Party and SV propose that Statoil's purpose paragraph be updated so that environmental interests are given a higher status. The text of the proposal is as follows: ‘Statoil’s task shall be to investigate, extract, transport, market and sell petroleum and derived products, including the development of technologies for better and more environmentally friendly use and use of oil and gas, and the development of alternative renewable energy sources. Statoil shall contribute to sustainable development.’;» The reason for presenting this proposal is clear enough. The State shall not interfere with the day-to-day operation but shall have a philosophy of ownership. The problem is that the state often has unclear views of its role as owner. The answer to such a challenge is active ownership, not change the ownership structure. In such a context, it would be unfortunate if the Government won with its position in the Storting. Of course, private stakeholders will not only own cars, but also have real power in the company. More privatisation is therefore in the cards. For the state, the price of the axes will move in the same direction. What kind of value would a stock-quoted Statoil get? At this point, there's every reason to warn scepticism. It may also be difficult to establish a stable and permanent system or a strong and clear ownership. The current day's day's day's day's management system needs to be changed if Statoil is to be partially privatised. There are major problems associated with such a conversion. Among other things, there is a danger that the new company will develop into a traditional oil company. Many measures need to be put in place to prevent such developments, i.e. an important argument against sub-privatisation. On behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, I put forward the following proposals: «Statoil shall continue to be a wholly owned State company.» Some think that the future management of the day is an even more important matter than the privatisation issue, and there might be something in it. The system is robust, a great success, and therefore also, paradoxically, problematic. Why changed mechanisms that work well? The answer is, of course, that the income from the socket can and should be collected differently. It is time to supplement the financial revenues, which are mostly located abroad, with measures that promote industrial development and strengthen our oil policy environment. It is important to act dynamically in such a situation and not end up in a position where a person thinks static. After long discussions, and certainly a hard draw, the government proposed to sell 20 pst. by BEHAVIOUR to the oil company in question. The centre party and SV consider this to be a reasonable balance between government financial and industrial considerations. We said yes to support this. The government could get multiple numbers for its own suggestions. Strangely enough, then, the Labour Party did not take the chance, but went from its proposal in St. pp. No Thirty-six. The explanation was desirable to arrive at a solid oil policy compromise, in order to put in place a long-term solution. But right-hand claims they want to push to sell out a much larger part of DEATH. This is, as the representative Jan Tore Sanner said earlier today, a one-time operation. In the committee setting, the committee majority indicates that Statoil suggests a much larger hall than the government did, and the grounds are quoted in detail. It's a sign of reflection. Make sure that a collection of 21,5 pst. has a lasting value as a political agency. On such an uncertain basis, the Centre Party and SV will not deviate from their primary positions. Therefore, the two parties propose the following: ‘The size gives the Government the power to sell SAD shares corresponding to 20 pst. of the SEDØE values of the Norwegian State oil company a.s., Norwegian Hydro and others.» There are two points attached to this proposal. We want to highlight resistance and protest against a plural compromise that rather than guarantee against an even larger hall of SEDØE parts. We warn against reducing the cash flow more than what follows from St.prp. No Thirty-six. It's about big sums of money. There is also an image that the pricing of parts of DIE is highly uncertain. The bigger thing that's going to be is the harder it gets when we want to collect lost income through the tax system. Ironically, the Labour Party has made an agreement with the Right, which is generally not specifically willing to use taxes and charges. So point number. 2: There must be great caution in those fields where we have our most important gas interests. A State pre-emptive right should be attached to the hall of SAD parts in such fields. The centre part and SV take up a separate suggestion about this. Today's debate is about major economic interests, we are discussing the management of the people's resources. In spite of that, it's hard to understand for most people. Phagterminology is impenetrable. Everything will be much easier when we find the appropriate expressions in Norwegian. The word ‘cage blend’, taken from Norwegian agriculture, has had a great educational value. It has effectively led us to understand what needs to be done by cleaning up to manage the resources on the base better than is the case today. It's a big deal we're discussing, maybe the biggest one in the year and day before our oil and gas policy. But we should not take our mouths too full. DEATH was created in 1985. It was a great political act, an action aimed at winging the Statoil. However, the result was a solid and robust financial saving. In such a perspective, the suggestions in St.prp. No 36 to consider a reasonable correction. There is a tension in the field between different management models the discussion about Norwegian oil and gas is taking place. Financial, industrial, technological and resource policy concerns continue to put us ahead of difficult choices, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e911	John Dale has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e916	I know the representative John Dale as a person who is concerned with the historical lines and parallels of politics and social development. Norwegian coastal shipping was built on the competence established by the need to transport goods and services along the coast. This competence continued to develop a strong international maritime industry, which it lived well for a long time. Now one has used the Norwegian socket to build a strong competence environment, which one has developed through the use of its own resources. Now one is facing an opportunity where one can use this environment of competence to also engage internationally. The representative, Dale, said that he understood the argument that it might not be wise to spend taxpayers' money only in such a bet, but probably didn't pay much attention to this. Does the representative Dale think that it is a reasonable use of the expertise that Norwegian society has invested considerable resources over the past 30 years, to use it only on a Norwegian base, or is it reasonable to facilitate the exploitation of this competence also in order to obtain a value creation outside the country's borders? I consider the Centre Party to be a party that is occupied by Norwegian ownership, but they should also be concerned that the Norwegian ownership leads to a few companies with head offices in Norway that are strongly engaged also outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e927	I see this as a very pleasant line from the representative, Hiie, I almost want to say it was a friendly act, which allows me to make it clear that on both of the points that were so important to him, we have the possibility of having a conversation. It is obvious that we are in the process of implementing oil policy reforms that will strengthen the Norwegian build-up of competences in the field of oil and gas. What we do in terms of restructuring in the area of housing is an important asset in this way. We support the whole heart. Nevertheless, at some point we have to limit ourselves, because there are other considerations that are also involved in a larger drawing, I'm thinking about for example. financial considerations, cash flows and the need to have a resource saving. When all of this is viewed in context, we thought it was 20 pst. the sale of DØE represents a reasonable balance of these considerations, and that it will help to strengthen the build-up of competences on a Norwegian base. So I would also say that it's clear that the Central Party is dependent on Statoil also investing internationally. That's what Statoil is doing today. There is a certain risk in each bet, so to speak, but after what we might call a total assessment, we are not in doubt that it is unnecessary to privatise Statoil in order to be able to continue with an oil policy offensive abroad, with the risk it might pose. I've done everything in my post to make sure that Statoil stays in 100 pst. state ownership, and the moments count heavier than the concerns that the representative Höie made in his reply to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e936	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e939	I would first like to address the suggestions that John Dale did not make on behalf of the Center Party and SV, so that it will not be forgotten. The working party had a chance today to choose a page. They once again chose to go to the Market Liberation Lists in the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party has now, in a way, joined the new ‘ML’ movement, which I choose to call him, and today they dispose of their property by privatizing Statoil. The majority spend more than DKK 1 billion on consultants and consultants to get this done. When SV suggests something reasonable such as 1 billion kroner for school, children and young people, they go the same ‘ML’ part of the whole of the fences in the use of language on responsibilities, etc. Now the plural spends $1 billion on handing over people's property. SV follows up on which the choosers have chosen us. We don't want the distrust of the voters to increase by doing something that we didn't go into, like a lot of people in this room are doing today. It is quite simply as the leader of the Labour Party, current Foreign Minister, wrote last January: ‘It is difficult to imagine that a dramatic change in oil and gas policy can take place before the elections in 2001.’ It is stated in Igland letter of 3 January 2000. In a few months now this spring, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, is in a hurry to make an unparalleled conversion in Norwegian oil and gas history. So this is five months before the big shot, where the voters could have just said the whole thing. This haste is a good example of how the political majority moves power from voters and political choices to stock speculators and the market. Privatisation shall create more free competition, more efficient and flexible companies and optimise revenue for the country. This is one of the modern language that a person is trying to make people believe in. But it can simply be that the free competition, as one now suggests to have even more of it from among others. The Labour Party's side, in fact, can lead to less competition, and indeed to monopolistic situations, which one has seen in some areas. Could it be that there will be less democratic governance, that the head office will be moved – something that the Rogaland bench fears very much – that there will be a loss of jobs and the loss of state income? These things can't be answered properly from the plural side. SV understands that the Right and Advance Party are naked. They are content that one goes away from the old ideological ideas that the Labour Party had before about freedom and justice for all, and that they now join the new 'ML' movement, i.e. the market liberals here in Stortinget, where the market takes power from the populace. The leader of the division of power, Øyvind Østerut, says among others: that the scope for political power is being reduced, because the politicians – and it is us – have voluntarily abdicated at, among others. privatisation of state enterprises. The plurality does today, makes politics abdicate, it becomes less democracy. The popular government of Statoil should therefore be weakened when our state company has a pre-tax result of 38.1 billion kroner. Likewise, we have to sell 21,5 pst. of which we own on the bottom of the North Sea, where the value is record high and the income of the Norwegian people foreshadowable. The centre party and SV have offered another plurality to the Labour Party today. To date, we have offered it on the premises provided by the Government in relation to DEA. They have actually received an offer to implement their own policies. That says the plural here and the Workers' Party no. They choose to work with the right side. The cash flow from HOUSE was $98.2 billion last year. Is it then the logic of getting rid of more ownership in HOUSE than the government wanted? Is it logical to privatise and change as much an administration as the entire committee has agreed to have been very successful? The ML movement here means it. They no longer trust democracy and governance. There is no urgency in this matter. On the contrary, we should rather spend time on the issue of oil and gas business in the EEA, the EU and our economic and management losses in relation to the Gas Markets Directive and the Competition Directive. What now appears to be the result is that while Russia and Algeria are to be able to sell gas to the EU through national monopolies that ensure the proper income and development of new gas fields, Norway may be forced by an EEA agreement to sell the gas at a low price and with unsafe long-term contracts. This, in turn, can lead to great losses for the Norwegian people. I thought it would be better to spend more time on the problem associated with the EEA and the EU before embarking on the process that is now taking place. After all, we do not know what kind of agreements we have with the Gas Markets Directive, it has been confirmed by the State Council itself in the past. Privatisation of public ownership affects many people's economic interests. Statoil's lead will be paid even higher, because no one would think that if they went down 1 million, the lead would have fought for a privatisation. I'll pay you. Consultants and consultancy agencies tend, as I said, good money. After what's written in an article in the Evening Post on April 17, there's about $1 billion of government money being used to give the Norwegian people their property. Had SV, as I said, added up to such a use of money, there had been trouble. Unfortunately, it is not today in such a big and important matter. SV is excited to say that democracy is working. We are concerned about being able to use the governance that we have, in a way that makes sense in terms of creating a better environment, in terms of creating a fair distribution in this society. The majority now do, is the right-hand side of Norwegian policy has long wanted. And now the Workers' Party is on the team. So one gives itself the power to create a better environment, to create a fairer distribution by giving power from this room to the market. And who's in charge there? Well, it's the ones who have enough money already, the ones who can speculate and buy axes. This is the sad fact that the Labour Party is in. SV has been busy just to avoid this situation. We wanted the petroleum resources to remain mainly owned by the Norwegian people. We wanted resources to be managed in a way that takes care of the environment and the climate problems we face. We can only note that a majority in this Chamber places emphasis on values other than the environment and democracy. So they're focusing on moving power out of this hall and telling them how to control it. There's a situation where SV says he's sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e974	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e979	After hearing the SV’s description of the Workers’ Party’s relationship with the representative called the ‘ML movement’, I can take part in the Norway Championship in how much to hear before the ears fall off. SV gets the big principal distinction in terms of disposing of the people's property, as the representative Langeland called it, to focus on 1.5 pst., whether we're privatizing or selling 20 pst. The shares in the shares in which SV will, or 21,5 pst. by the majority. SV is totally opposed to opening up a certain privatisation of Statoil. But the party is to privatize the oil resources and privatise the DIE shares. The party is therefore opposed to doing what is necessary to give Statoil the opportunity to develop as an industrial company to strengthen the instrument to convert the oil into value. For the tens of thousands of people who depend more or less on Statoil, it must be funny to see that those who are furthest away from reality, those who are on the Storting, know better than those who are in the middle of work, those who actually live by the company's development. SV boils soup on raw materials that have expired ten years ago for the sake of its own museum guardians. SV is to privatize and privatize the oil, but it is not to privatize the instrument that is to do something worth it. My question is, where is the logic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e993	Sometimes I have a problem finding the logic of a part of what Hegna stands for, so then we have a mutual problem, probably, not least when it concerns environmental policy. Just to correct the representative Hegna a bit: add his statoil, etc. on Kårstø, has been a strike against this privatisation. It should bother Hegna that he did not even know that there is actually a rush with trade unionists who are opposed to this privatisation, and that SV actually has knowledge that trade unionists have different views here. SV is not opposed to finding logical and rational solutions in case of DEATH. We've seen that in some fields it answers to get an exchange between companies to get more efficiency. We've seen that, we're proposing it, and we're going to rewrite it in detail in the setting. And that's sensible policy. But from that point of view, the gale of market liberalism that Hegna does, where one gives away the power of governance in the Storting, to the shareholders, is an act that I didn't expect would come from the old tradesman's party, which fights against it earlier because they wanted democratic governance, and they wanted to preserve the rights of workers. Now ask Statoil to be added to Kårstø if they feel that privatisation will guarantee health, the environment and security and ensure that they add their rights, what will be the answer? And what is the logic of Hegna's line?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1002	It's kind of interesting to listen to the representative Langeland. It creates associations for the school election debates we have in front of each election, and that makes you look forward to what's coming in a few months. Langeland asked the following questions in her statement: Can there be a loss of income, and could there be a loss of jobs? To that I would say: yes, I think it actually can with the solution that SV chooses; by being static and not willing to change the instruments. What really happens is that Statoil, without making any changes, is severely discriminated against in relation to other companies in a large international market. This means that if the Stortinge should sit still and look at developments that are taking place outside the world, without simultaneously adapting the instruments to Statoil, Statoil will lose. They will lose power of action, and they will lose financial strength and the ability to compete. There will be loss of income, and there will be loss of jobs. I think the answer to Langeland's question is yes. I want to ask Hallgeir Langeland a few questions. Does SV realize that there is a need for a strengthening of Statoil financially if one is to have the opportunity to participate in a market that is undergoing rapid and quite extensive changes? That's the one question. The second question is this: if SV realizes that there is a need to strengthen Statoil, how do you think that this strengthening should take place? Can you, for example: do you already suggest that as an alternative to sub-privatising and selling a slightly larger proportion of the land, will lower taxes and taxes on the base allow companies to increase their ability to build up equity and reserve capital? What solutions and answers does SV face with a strong and large market, and which Statoil is dependent on adapting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1013	Now it may be that the Christian People's Party feels a little difficult that SV actually points out that they are very defensive in relation to the Center Party and SV when it concerns the environmental bit. They disclaim a responsibility to create a company that is offensively purely environmental. And when one goes out and flags the environment, such as Bondevik does, it is clear that then the Christian People's Party reveals its real policy. That could be what stresses Rahm, for financial reasons with Statoil, what is the Central Party and SV proposing? We propose 15 pst. by HOUSE to Statoil. What does that mean? That just means what Rahm was asking for. But next time, when the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party have privatized Statoil, then the matter is changed according to what we want to do with the taxpayers' money. Hand-held power has Statoil. There's going to be some discrimination here. I have to say I thought I had a little bit of discrimination. But if what is happening here today in relation to Statoil is to be discrimination against Statoil when it is related to DEATH, I must say I have understood little of what the Christian People's Party is discriminated against. On the contrary, the Centre Party and SV Statoil give an advantage. Then it is the opposite of discrimination in fact. I hope that the Christian People's Party joins the proposal of the Center Party and SV to make Statoil a company with an environmental profile that they can also defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1022	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1025	The partial privatisation of Statoil and the sale of SøE shares may be the largest and most important case dealt with in Stortinget this period. At the beginning of the period, there was little indication that there would be agreement with the decisions we are making today. On the contrary, there has been a need for new treatment in several batches. The left is one of these. But the biggest deviation from the expectations of the party is enough SV that currently actually goes so far as to open up the sale of 20 pst. of the shares in the seabed. It badly harmonizes with the rhetoric of Hallgeir Langeland, who would obviously be cheering at a party congress in Cuba. When the partial privatisation and sale of SDEE shares has the support of a large majority, it is because it is well-founded and because of its high potential for increased value creation and greater community income. For the Left, it is important to stress that there is a desire for the best possible use of resources and increased returns to the community, which is the background for our saying yes to partial privatisation and sale of shares. We're taking new grips adapted to new challenges. Petroleum industry will be one of Norway’s most important industries throughout this century. Today's decision will contribute to this. The government of the Left in December 1999 opened up the partial privatization of up to 1/3 of Statoil and the sale of a small proportion of DØE. This fits as a hand in gloves in relation to what we adopt today. Against this background, it was natural when the government presented its proposal, that the Left made it clear that we wanted to contribute to a broad compromise. The arrangement of the government was well in line with the position of the Left. Through the treatment in Stortinget we have come even closer. The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown a willingness to find a solution and take responsibility in an important area. All the parties have contributed to consensus. I think it is of great importance for Norwegian petroleum policy that predictability is thus created and the basis for a stable and long-term regime. Sub-privatisation provides a basis for strengthening and further development of Statoil. With the competence and solid position of the company, I am highly optimistic on behalf of Statoil based on the decisions taken today. Hydro and other companies are also given new opportunities by opening up the sale of SEDØE shares. The left would have wanted to go a little further and open up to a larger share of the shares of HlD and other companies. In this connection, I would like to point out that the DØE company is given the opportunity to go further and open up further sales when one finds it factually well justified. Today’s decisions give a clear signal that we perceive the petroleum industry as a future industry. It is in the oil and gas sector that Norway has laid the foundation for what is our Nokia. We have skills and technology that can compete with anyone. Hundreds of millions of dollars are invested in this industry. We get technology and skills that we need to exploit further, and that's what we're laying the foundation for with the decisions taken today. The majority receives three different cases concerning Norwegian petroleum policy. We have processed the oil and gas message and taken important steps. Today, Statoil and HOUSE are on their way. In a short time, we're going to look at the tax haven for the oil industry. It is important that what we do in these cases goes in the same direction and gets a strengthening effect. It's all in order to be the case. This gives a clear and strong signal that it makes sense to invest in work within this industry. Companies also need to think in the long term to contribute to the recruitment that is needed. Labour shortages are going to be a problem for many industries in the time to come. It is also important that we get the human resources in place if we are to succeed in the ambitions we have for petroleum policy. Similarly, a commitment to research is absolutely necessary. It will be absolutely essential for us to be able to take out the potential that lies here. The course we are now pursuing for future petroleum policy is well in line with the thinking that has shaped the successful policy we have had in this area for over 30 years in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1057	Oil and gas activities are one of Norway’s most important industries. It stands for one of the five dollars that we as a community serve. Every other penny we earn on our exports comes from this industry, and directly and indirectly there are about 80,000 jobs associated with the oil and gas business. New technology, new knowledge and new skills have raised us over the years. The whole country, and the Norwegian people, have benefited, are taking advantage of and will continue to benefit from the oil and gas industry in Norway. It plays an important role for work, industry, services and well-being. It doesn't have a long story in our country, but it has a long future. And it's our joint responsibility to take care of this important industry. And that's exactly what we're doing here today -- a broad majority still takes responsibility for the continued good management of our common oil and gas bodies. I would therefore like to pay tribute to those parties that are continuing the tradition of ensuring a broad majority behind the main lines of oil and gas policy today. It creates safer frameworks around the business at home and outdoors, and it underlines that oil and gas, like our other important natural resources, are managed in a way that has widespread upsurge in the Storting. I am pleased with the compromise that has been secured today by a majority in the United Kingdom. It's at all points in line with what the government proposed, and therefore, of course, something the government recommends. The starting point and the end point are clear: there is one, and only one, owner of the oil and gas deposits on the Norwegian continental shelf, and that is the State on behalf of the community. It is the community at Stortinget and the Government that determine how we determine the rate of expansion on a Norwegian base, how we collect tax revenues, and how we set environmental and safety requirements. Our decision now is about how best to manage what we own together. It's about how we can ensure a continued leading oil and gas industry, and how we can generate maximum income for the community. When we started up in the North Sea, we wanted a strong Norwegian oil company. State ownership in Statoil was a prerequisite for establishing the company, developing it and bringing it to the leading position of Statoil today. But our ability to manage the oil and gas deposits was never conditional on the state permanently owning 100 pst. by the company. We know that we are about to pass the top of new, larger expansions on Norwegian base, and in a few years we will also pass the top when it comes to production. Statoil followed with Norwegian pedestal on its way up. We need to avoid the company following Norwegian pedestals on the way down. While the business in Norway is out, it's on its way up many other places in the world. There's got to be Statoil, too. By opening up extended ownership in Statoil, we are now laying the foundation for the company to develop further with new partners, new technologies and more capital. We make Statoil a stronger company with expanded impact on Norwegian base, on new sea depths and in new markets. The Labour Party took responsibility for helping to make Statoil the company that is today. Today, the Workers' Party takes responsibility for making Statoil the company that might become tomorrow: a leading international oil company with its head office in Norway a company in the technological first division of a large European gas company a good and safe job for the more than 16000 employees working in the company today; The government proposed that Statoil be listed and that the State should own at least 2/3 of the new company. This has been agreed by the Storting, and I'm expressing my recognition of that. We are gathering today about a sensible and responsible change in the organisation of the state's direct financial involvement, DIEE. The majority of direct holdings in the country remain at the hand of the country. But we're opening up to sell some of the country's passive holdings in oil and gas fields, so that the active companies operating there can develop the fields even better: pick up more oil and gas, ensure better management of the resources, and thus ensure greater revenues to the entire Norwegian community and to the community. It increases the opportunities for increased value creation and higher revenues, which also benefit the community. The government considered that a proper starting point for such a sale of the country’s direct holdings was 20 pst. We meant 15 pst. should be sold to Statoil as part of efforts to strengthen the company and improve the management of oil and gas deposits. The result today is that we sell 21.5 pst, that Statoil gets to buy 15 pst, and that Hydro and other companies get to buy the remaining 6.5 pst. This is a change of 1.5 pst. in relation to what the Government proposed, and that is why the Government lives well and can recommend. The government also proposed a new organisation of the gas transport system, where we clean up roles and make a clearer distinction between producers and carriers. This gives us better management of significant economic values. I am pleased that the Storting can join the Government's proposal. When important changes occur in Norwegian petroleum policy through increased ownership of Statoil and changes in its direct ownership, it has been important for the Government that possible changes in the tax system are known before new owners are invited and limited sales of SDEE shares take place. The Government will therefore present tomorrow proposals for changes to the petroleum tax which relate to the following: the rules governing the allocation of interest expenditure or financial items between countries and the carry-over of deficits with interest rates and the transfer of final deficits upon cessation of activity; With this proposal, we get a stable and predictable tax system for the business on the base. Here too, the parties on Stortinget have made constructive contributions. The fact that this is coming into place now contributes to a clearer relationship around the expansion of ownership in Statoil. What we're doing is opening up extended ownership in Statoil. It strengthens Statoil and provides for better management of its direct holdings and for a new organisation of transport activities on the base, which is a major and significant part of the overall oil and gas business. At the same time, we are proposing long-term changes in the tax system that ensure predictability and stability in relation to key framework conditions for the base. Overall, this is the most extensive conversion of Norwegian oil and gas policy since the large oil compromise in the early 1980s, some of which have since the establishment of Statoil in 1972. Anyway, it's a historic decision we're making today, because it's about our most important industry, the one that gives us the biggest income. It is a decision that matters many years in advance, to the community, to industry and to the value creation of our country. The future management of our oil and gas reserves is an important matter that needed clarification. This was a matter that the former government could not bring before the Stortinget. Today's explanation is that the centre parties have not been able to agree on what kind of oil and gas policy Norway is going to conduct. This is one of the most important political issues of the spring session. Several issues of major national importance come to treatment beyond springtime. It is the government's hope that there can be unifying solutions in these matters as well, as there is a broad majority in this matter. The broad majority on important issues serves the country, it serves the community, and it serves the political system. That is why I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the decisions we are making today on the oil and gas business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1125	We too from the Christian People's Party are pleased with the historic decision that is being made today, and not least because there is a broad majority behind this agreement. Here the Christian People's Party itself has made a strong contribution. It took its time before the Workers' Party agreed with itself and showed the willingness to join in this big and broad compromise. It has to do with national responsibility. When the central government last year chose to postpone the matter a few months ago, there was no way of scrupulous criticism from the Workers' Party, not least from Jens Stoltenberg himself, who was then the head of the Energy and Environment Committee, even the Workers' Party at that time obviously could not have clarified its position. Later, the Workers' Party had a lot of major problems and had to wait until its national meeting before the process could be completed and the case brought before the Stortinget. The rhetoric had a little lack of content. But now we're not going to spend time on the snow that fell last year. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are happy that we are on target. Let me therefore focus on the implementation of the decisions that are now to be taken in the Stortinget. That's the point I want to challenge the Prime Minister. One of the most important issues here will be the pricing of State shares. Here we know that tiny differences can amount to billions of dollars. The true market price is not easy with one buyer and one seller. At the same time, the correct sale is the choice we make today. Therefore, it is very important that a person is able to obtain a price that does not contain a discount on his shares and that means that we receive a satisfactory income from the sale. There are also likely to be different assessments that apply to different parts of the administration. That is why I would particularly challenge the Prime Minister to follow this process very closely. There will be a lot of determination here in relation to the revenue from the sale of the land. Will the Prime Minister also contribute to maximising our revenues in the pricing and future sales of the SDEE shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1134	It is absolutely right that there has been discussion and various positions in the Workers' Party regarding the ownership of Statoil. It has obviously also been in the central government, but unlike the central government, we have a system, a system, to make decisions. We did that when it was a discussion about e.g. NATO membership — there were different views, but a decision was taken at the National Labour Party meeting, and the Labour Party introduced Norway into NATO. There have been differing views on self-determined abortion and other important issues, but we have taken decisions – the Labour Party has shown the power to implement those decisions even though there have been different views. The point about the center games is that you couldn't agree on anything, and so you didn't put anything forward. The centre parties are still not agreed, even if you want to appear as a common alternative – you can't agree on one of the most important things in the session. We have made a decision, presented it to the Stortinget and got a majority for it – exactly as the Government proposed. And we're happy about that. When it comes to setting prices on the shares to be sold by the State, HOUSE, I fully agree with the representative that this is a very important question. What price we're going to put on the shares that are to be sold – it's about billions of dollars – is a complicated question. What I can assure you is that the departments are working intensively on it, and that as Prime Minister, I am following it closely. We're going to make sure that we get a fair and good price, and we're going to pay attention to the fact that the government gets a price that reflects the real values of the shares we're going to sell. Unfortunately, it's not that it's easy to say what that price is. We're going to use outstanding international competence, we're going to look at price fixing in connection with previous sales on Norwegian base, for example. The Saga transactions and other shares that have been traded, and then determine the price that we consider to be correct on that basis. Here's a few small percentages, but it's easy to figure out how many billions of dollars. Both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister are aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1143	The Prime Minister gives recognition to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left for making a settlement with the Workers' Party. Let me return that recognition and express joy at the fact that the Workers' Party went to the Right and Center, and not to the SV and the Center Party, as the Prime Minister at some point opened up to. I am surprised at the harsh tone of the Prime Minister's intervention. It does not suit a prime minister when he says in his statement that the majority ‘at all points’ has joined the Government’s proposal. That's not right. The Prime Minister may not have read the setting as it exists. Let me mention some points: the majority have removed the absolute limit the government set to keep two thirds in Statoil. The majority have clarified the purpose of the state co-ownership by stressing that the aim is to ensure that Statoil is also anchored with its head office in Norway in the future. The majority have proposed to increase the shares of RED sold to Hydro and others and to open up for further sale, and the majority have wanted to limit the sale of shares in the large gas fields. Furthermore, the majority has proposed the creation of a joint ownership company for gas transport based on ‘GasLed’. And finally, the majority have also gone into increasing the appropriations for research in the further follow-up. An important reason for sub-privatisation of Statoil is to reduce the potential for role conflicts that may arise when the State sits on all sides of the table. Today’s decision does not remove these possibilities. In order to reduce the risk of role conflicts, it is important to look at the extent of state ownership, how the State exercises its ownership and how the State organises its activities. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: how does the Government view this by reducing the possibility of future conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1154	At a distance, I think everyone agrees that what is important today is that we make some historical decisions about the ownership of Statoil, about how we organise the management of the state's direct holdings, and about how we organize the gas transport, or the transport business, on a Norwegian base. What is most important here is that it is a broad majority and, secondly, that all the broad lines/proposals presented by the Government in these areas have been endorsed. Then I will not at any time try to contribute to creating a bad mood in a day when one should really be happy with the consensus, by ignoring or defusing the changes, the adjustments, that the committee has made in the setting. I fully agree that there are changes, but I still believe that those changes are of minor importance in relation to the major changes that the Government made, and for which the Government has obtained a majority – because there was agreement on that! There is no defeat for the Right to vote in favour of those proposals – that is the thing Right agrees with, and that is quite all right. Then I think we'll try to enjoy it instead of trying to construct disagreements on smaller issues, when we're all agreed on the main thing. At least that's my wish. In terms of state role conflicts, there is an important question, a question to which there is not always a simple answer. You could imagine that if the only thing you were concerned with was avoiding role conflicts, you could say no to any state ownership – both for the DEAL and for Statoil. But then, first of all, you would renounce significant incomes to the community – which I think Right is also concerned with ensuring – and second, you would not be left with a single Norwegian oil company with a high degree of certainty after some time. State ownership has been important in some areas in order to ensure at least national anchoring of some enterprises. As long as one is too state-owned in some form, there will also be demanding role conflicts to deal with. We have to work together to deal with this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1164	As the Prime Minister pointed out, the oil industry is very important for the Norwegian economy, and it is therefore crucial to know what framework conditions we are creating for this industry. In our view, the partial privatisation of Statoil is clearly a step in the right direction, and that is something that we have also proposed on several occasions in the past. But opening up private owners with up to 1/3 to stop there without signaling further sales, in my view, is a wrong signal to give to the market. Does the Prime Minister not see that such a restriction on the sale of the State would weaken the attractiveness of the shares and thus the price of the shares? And further, does the government intend to propose further sales by the state to counteract these gigantic stock discounts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1171	The answer to the question is no. The reason for this is that we believe that strong State ownership of Statoil is important, both to ensure the national anchoring of ownership of the company and to ensure that it has a national anchoring in the sense that its head office and key strategic functions lie in Norway. We believe that what is important now is that there is a clear framework, clear assumptions, for the sale that is to be made, and we believe that the majority in the vote has expressed that, and that is why the sale will proceed in a neat and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1178	I have a great deal of understanding that the Prime Minister might have other things to do than read settings from Stortinget. But to provide a little reading guide, I would recommend the second column on page seven for reading to the Prime Minister. Here, the Workers' Party takes an incomprehensible and unnecessary settlement of public ownership that must have consequences in some other areas, and my question to the Prime Minister is therefore addressed as follows: It states that ‘an excessive state ownership may reduce the incentives for increased value creation’. It is also said that the company does not have the option of «participating in the restructuring and positioning of the international oil industry» as a state-owned whole-time company. And you keep saying, Sub-privatisation will provide more framework conditions in line with competitors. Greater freedom to expand through buying-in through the use of shares as their own currency — in the ultimate sense, it could mean merger. There will be a more effective decision-making process. Financial markets will have a continuous and objective measurement of the efficiency of the company. They will have risky owners and growth-oriented owners. You want to avoid the skepticism of state ownership. When we looked at the top of it all in the debate today that the contracting parties have established that the decision being taken today is just a first step towards further partial privatisation and the Workers' Party is also in the position to say that, firstly, the absolute requirement for the State to own 2/3 is removed, and it is said that the purpose of ownership is now to have the head office in Norway – so to speak, only 1/3 ownership – is my question: What effect will this have on ownership in other areas when taking such a strong settlement with the State as owns? What can we expect as the next step when it is now unequivocally stated that the state has no other purpose than to have 1/3 ownership of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1206	The representative, Mr Enoxen, addresses a very important and fundamental issue, namely the rationale for state ownership, and where there should be state ownership, and where it should not be. I believe that in those areas where there should be state ownership, it must have clear justification. For example, when we believe that government ownership of oil and gas activities is right, or, for that matter, the power sector, it is about ensuring national ownership, national anchoring and building up national competences, and it is also a matter of securing a share of the extra income that is usually associated with the management of natural resources, or – in the childhood of oil age – the building up of partnerships of expertise. Statoil had never been today's company without the state as its owner. But it's not necessarily so that we have to have 100 pst. state ownership to achieve those objectives. We believe that by letting some private people in, we get other benefits, like access to capital, the ability to build alliances, the ability to get others on the owner's side, which can give us both market access and new technology – and then we find a balance, and that's the balance we've found in relation to Statoil. This is nothing new, in the sense that it is the same idea that applies in relation to, for example: Telenor, in many ways a well-important enterprise for Norway as Statoil, or, for example, banks, where the Workers' Party has also participated in sales over the past few years. In other areas, we believe that the state should increase its ownership. We have e.g. proposed that the State should take over all the hospitals, our most capital intensive businesses, with about 100,000 employees, while saying yes that we can own a little less in a company called Statoil, which has 16,000 employees. So the increased state ownership of the hospital sector is, of course, in terms of the number of employees and investments, greater than what we give up in Statoil. I simply believe that it is an advantage if the state owns something more hospital and a little less in gas stations and oil refineries. There is no great loss for anyone, but there is a more targeted state ownership, and that must be the reason for state ownership. The center party is for 100 pst. ownership of refuelling stations but against state ownership of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1219	There is a broad agreement, says the Prime Minister, about what is being done today. He then says that it's "preciously exactly" what the government came with. But it's a truth with modifications, because in fact, the Center Party and SV have offered the Workers' Party "probably exactly" what the Workers' Party wanted on the SED. So the ‘genuine accuracy’ is not exactly accurate, but it’s clearly a way of trying to give the impression that the government has actually got a pass for everything it stood for. I understand that, but here we're talking about the government by working with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have made sure to open up for privatisation and make sure to sell larger parts of the North Sea. So here I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to make it clear that he's actually taking a distance from a proposal that's the government's proposal in relation to the day. He had offered it, but he said no. So in relation to privatisation and power. I want the Prime Minister to say something about the following: Øyvind Østerud, who led the work on power distribution, says that politicians give up power to the market, among others. By privatizing state ownership, they weaken democracy by giving up power. Has the Prime Minister agreed that giving power to the market is less popular, i.e. less democracy – or is it a short cut? In any case, it was the policy of the Labour Party, together with the tradesmanship, before, but I find that it is therefore a step backwards in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1226	What's pretty accurate, and what's accurate, you probably get to leave to philologists to discuss. My point is just the following: The government proposed that up to one third of the shares in Statoil be sold and listed on the stock exchange. That is the connection. So the government proposed to separate the transport business, which is a large and significant business in Norwegian Socket, as a separate company. That is the connection. So the government proposed to sell 20 pst. of the direct holdings of the State. There was a majority for 21.5 pst. Then you can discuss whether it's a significant or less significant change – quite accurate or completely accurate. When we chose not to compromise with the Centre Party and SV, it was because we believe that there is an overall majority behind these main lines that is an advantage for Norwegian oil and gas activities. Since we couldn't agree on the rest, we made a whole deal with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, and I'm so glad that there's a consensus on those main lines. Then I am aware that there have also been some changes on some other points, but these are changes that the Government and the Labour Party do not have any problems with accepting. But the principal lines are in place, as a broad majority here in the Great Britain have always wanted. As far as power is concerned, I do not know directly what Øyvind Østerud has said and not said, but at least I am absolutely sure that the exercise of power over the oil and gas business, the management we have with the oil and gas business, does not happen through the ownership of Statoil. It takes place through concession rules, environmental requirements, the Petroleum Act – the State as a regulatory authority. That's when we decide the rate of extraction, that's when we decide the tax policy, and that's when we are, for example. determines environmental requirements and safety requirements. And it's a much more important arena of power, political governance, than the ownership of Statoil – you haven't used it for direct political governance for many, many years. The purpose of the State ownership of Statoil is to secure income and national anchoring, and we achieve that with the model we have now presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1236	This is one of the big issues in this big time period. Even I remember the oil deal in the mid-1980s – there was also a Council of State from the Christian People's Party in the Oil and Energy Ministry. It became a decent and robust settlement, which has now been in place for more than 15 years. It's a pleasure that we once again achieve a wide oil deal. It should also be able to stand for many years and thus provide predictable framework conditions for those operating in this important activity. Some issues are of such national importance that they should, if possible, be raised above the party boundaries, and we have succeeded in doing so. An oil policy regime must ensure that oil and gas are a national common asset subject to national political control, which must be for the benefit of society as a whole and for generations to come. Furthermore, it must ensure the efficient and long-term use of resources; it must ensure that we further develop strong Norwegian oil environments and companies that are also in international competition; it must contribute to its attractiveness to foreign oil companies that have fed and can continue to add valuable expertise and expertise to the petroleum industry on a Norwegian base, and it must contribute to a positive industrial development in Norway. In my view, the agreement satisfies these main requirements. Developments in recent years have been in the direction of major oil companies, including: through mergers. We want the Norwegian companies, Statoil and Hydro, as competitive and strong companies also in international context. In such a perspective, it is therefore right, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to allow these companies to buy some shares, the more so as to clean up the so-called pastry mix, in too much division of ownership in some fields and areas. The government's proposal contained a clear imbalance in the distribution of purchases of SAD shares between Statoil and Hydro. The agreement is better, and this change should not be hidden by the Prime Minister. Statoil is increasingly involved in oil and gas fields in other countries. It is natural for the company to have more to share the risk with to some extent and otherwise to be given the revitalisation that several owners often mean. Moderate sub-privatisation by still a clear majority of the state is therefore a natural adaptation to this situation. As Prime Minister, I also worked very well on this matter. At that time it was impossible to get any clear signals from the Workers' Party in the contacts our government had with the Workers' Party. After that, we understood better why. There was obviously a great deal of internal disagreement in the Workers' Party. The new government also had to take a much longer postponement of the matter than what we from the central government announced. I also feel confident that we should have reached internal agreement in the central government on this, as we showed in a number of other cases where we had a slightly different starting point. So it's probably not just the Workers' Party that has systems to solve such things, as the Prime Minister said, and so have we. I am also somewhat surprised that the Prime Minister raised a debate on this in a day that is primarily marked by a broad oil policy settlement. I should therefore not say more about it either, just in the end say that to me it is at least so that in opposition I am pleased with the dialogue we have had with the current government, even before it made its proposal, and that has therefore also made it possible for us not to need the major changes in what was coming. But first and foremost, the change in the balance between Statoil and Hydro in the purchase of shares is important enough. I am also pleased with the contact and dialogue we have had with the government party and other parties here in Stortinget, which have prepared the basis for this broad agreement. We are happy to see this matter in terms of goal now. It is important for Norway, which is a significant energy nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1257	I paid attention to what the Prime Minister said when he spoke about the settlement, namely that the agreement covers what he stands for. I'm not a moment in doubt about that. I think even we could go further, and it would still cover what he stands for. Whether it be the whole party, one may be more in doubt about, but I will comfort the Prime Minister with the following historical reflections. When Finn Song, who was one of his sharpest opponents at the national meeting against softening the program, took part in the debate on settlements at the beginning of the 1980s, he was against EVERYTHING. Now he is a strong supporter of DIEE on the state's hands, so in ten years, Finn Song is probably also in line with what the Workers' Party now stands for. Otherwise, I can just say that the replies given by the Prime Minister were good answers – which the Right has been holding on in approx. 10 years. Then we've been alone about them. The fact that there are more, we should not be ashamed of that, we should be glad of that. Several have stated that it is a joyous day for the Right. To take a look back, we presented our first report on the partial privatisation of Statoil in 1990. In fact, the way in which privatisation is now proceeding is very similar to the report we presented. It's not going very fast, but at least it's going in the right direction. I think in many ways it is more important that the Right has also contributed – while we have been at the forefront in some areas – to important compromises. We helped when Statoil was created. Then we agreed that Statoil was a tool for politics. But Statoil has evolved from a tool to a company. We took part in the compromise on the Statoil reform in the early 1980s and actually had a leading role in it. We have participated in the compromises that have been on petroleum taxes in both the 1980s and 1990s – the two changes that have been made. As has now been explained by the Government's view of petroleum tax collectors- but, I believe, this is also the basis for a fairly broad consensus on this occasion. It is important for the consideration of Norway as a petroleum country that there is a reasonable predictability and that there is a reasonably broad agreement on the policy pursued. Right was early out, but I must say that we might have been better off in the usual balance between governance and the market if we had been ahead of development. Norway is now lagging behind. We are among the last countries in Europe that completely or partially privatise our energy company, the former semi- or wholesale energy company. We're late. If we had done this early in the 1990s, we would have been ahead of us. I would dare to say that it had actually given us some advantages, but that's what the historians are judging us for. Two things have changed that make us today privatize Statoil. One is the development from tool to company. It was actually completed in good time before we became a member of the EEA. It also underlined the Workers' Party on that occasion. So in other words, it would have been a good opportunity for privatisation even at that point in time. The second thing that has changed is the maturity of the Norwegian base and the international oil and gas environment. Many have gradually also changed with the EU Gas Directive, although we are only at the beginning of seeing those changes. If we're going to look back a little bit, we have to be able to say that the expression that Statoil has been a tool for politics, probably can be seen in many ways. I read yesterday – just to remind you a little bit about history – Johan J. Jakobsen's memoirs "To the Current", where he gives a quite complete mention of the oil struggles in the 1980s. In parentheses, the center part played a role at the time, they had an influence. I was at some point in doubt when I heard Bondevik say that it was the Christian People's Party that had the oil and energy minister in the Willoch government. I was wondering at some point whether it was Isaac, but Bondevik is right. It wasn't Isaac. But the Center Party took part very actively at the time and had influence. So now they've taken the spectator role. But my point was to point out that at the time – and it is well described in the book of Johan J. Jakobsen – perhaps just as much so that politicians were tools for Statoil, that it was thus a very strong lobbying activity the opposite way, which made power professors and power investigators at the time actually question who was the tool for who. It becomes much clearer now when it is clear what the instruments of oil policy are. They are, in my opinion, as strong today as they were at that time. But they are more pure now, they are more clear, and they go through traditional policy instruments: law and concession policy. Kjell Engebretsen had here reinstated the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1281	Today is a milestone in Norwegian oil history. The size has been invited to make major changes in policy in this area. However, it is important to establish that these are only changes in the mode of action. In Norway, we have every reason to be proud. What we have done over the past 30 years since we found oil is unparalleled, in both Norwegian and international contexts. When we found oil at the end of the 1960s, we were without knowledge in this field. Today, Norwegian oil company and Norwegian supplier industry are all at the tip of the world in several areas. This story is primarily about a very successful industrial policy. When one found oil, set some important goals. Oil resources were to be our common property and benefit the whole people. At the same time, a Norwegian industry was to be built on this resource. The choices one made when a policy designed to achieve these goals were correct. But policy in this area is not the same today as in 1970 or 1980 or 1990. Policy has constantly changed in order to adapt to the realities and challenges of the oil industry. But the painting has stood and stood firm. The changes in policies proposed by the Government, which are supported today by a broad majority in this Chamber, are designed to address today's and tomorrow's challenges. In recent years there have been enormous changes in the reality of Norwegian oil industry. Much of the world that was once closed is now open to international oil companies. These now have a lot more countries to choose from when to invest their resources. The oil industry is an industry without frontiers. The Norwegian base must therefore compete with Azerbaijan and the rest of the former Soviet Union, with the Middle East, West Africa and South America. Our fields, far to sea, with extremes and enormous sea depths, must be as attractive as fields on land, with stable weather conditions and simple geology. Oil companies have become fewer and larger. BP and Amoco have joined forces. Exxon and Mobil have joined forces. Total, Fina and Elf have joined forces. Chevron and Texaco have joined forces. Norwegian Hydro has purchased Saga. Competition has become much harder in Norway and internationally. Although we have oil and gas resources for many decades yet, Norwegian soil has entered a new phase. Findings become fewer and smaller. Future expansions will be different and more necessary. If the oil companies and the supplier industry are to hold their workforce, in their knowledge, in their technological environment, they must find new markets in addition to the Norwegian one. If they are to evolve and hold the position in the world summit, they must be where the challenges are, both here at home and out in the world. While our oil production is on top and will soon start going down, gas is becoming more and more important to Norway. The gas market is changing completely, from monopolistic to progressive liberalisation. The competition is getting tougher and the price pressure is getting bigger. Statoil was formed to be a tool in the exercise of its oil policy. The company was assigned special tasks and received a privilege on a Norwegian base. This time is over. International rules prevent the special treatment of individual companies. Statoil must today compete equally with all other companies. Statoil also does not perform any specific tasks on behalf of the Norwegian State. There is no less control for that reason. Full State ownership is not necessary to achieve the main objectives of the petroleum policy. We govern through concession policy, laws, regulations and individual decisions and not through the axes we own in Statoil. While it was previously an advantage for Statoil to be owned by the state, it is no longer like this. Having only one owner and e.g. not be able to use the share as a means of payment to reduce Statoil’s capacity to act and hence the company’s ability to compete with the other companies. Statoil has long since become an international company, commissioned in several parts of the world. The company's plans show that less than 50 pst. of future investments are intended to be made on Norwegian pedestal. In other words, Statoil is in a completely different situation today than when the company was created. The company needs new framework conditions in order to develop further, and the Norwegian State can safeguard its interests without having 100 pst. of the axe of Statoil. By letting others on the owner's side of Statoil get a capital injection and new knowledge as the state reduces its risk. The proposals made by the Government should, as I said, make it easier to meet the new time. This case is not just about Statoil and DIE, but about the entire Norwegian oil industry. In particular, the proposed changes are important for the Norwegian supplier industry and for the Norwegian service industry. Oil and gas industries are our most important industries. We have to take care of and further develop this industry. We need to ensure that the resources we have are managed in the best possible way to ensure high value creation, for the benefit of the community. Since one made the first oil policy grips about 30 years ago, it has been a goal in itself to achieve the broadest possible agreement on the main features of oil and gas policy. I am therefore very pleased with the broad government being given for its proposals today. It makes decisions more robust and the framework conditions more conservative for the actors in this industry. I am pleased with the will the pluralist has shown to settle, and I will also join in the praiseworthy words that have become the case spokesman in this House today. The government's proposals mainly include four steps: the change in the ownership structure of Statoil and the listing of the company in stock markets of selected owner-parts the creation of a new company in order to preserve the creation of a new company for the transport of natural gas; The government has recommended that the State reduce its ownership of Statoil, initially by 10 to 25 p.m., and that the company be listed on the stock exchange. The government believes this is an important measure for the company's future development and value creation potential. The majority of the committee advocates the initial inclusion of new owners corresponding to 15 to 25 pst. of the value of the company and that this is done by issue and sale. It is essential to have flexibility in terms of the degree of privatisation and the way in which the sale is to be carried out towards the time of the transaction. The level must be seen in relation to market developments, both in terms of demand, price developments, etc. The proportion of the transaction to be made at the time of issue and sale must also be assessed in relation to the form of the offer of DØE-owners' shares, liquidity and means of financing. The government will decide on the degree of privatisation and the solution as close to the price date as possible. The sale of some parts of DØE will contribute to strengthening the value creation on Norwegian continental shelf. This will help to ensure possible efficiency gains, so that added values will be realised. It is important to sell DIE-Owner parts in fields, findings and search areas with low resource potential and low expected profitability. In order to lay the groundwork for good collecting future gas management, the Government believes that the State should retain large ownership parts in the main gas fields, while it is important that Statoil is strengthened as a gas company. In order to ensure good care of the parts of HOUSE which the State chooses to retain, it is important that a few fields and extraction permits are concentrated so that the delivery function becomes simple and transparent. These considerations have been used as a basis for the assessment by the Government of the ownership and ownership of the land. The majority of the Committee endorses the Government's recommendation on the sale of owner-owner parts corresponding to 15 p.m. to Statoil. I've already started discussions with Statoil about this. The sale shall take place before Statoil is sub-privatised. I intend to close the transaction with Statoil in a short time. The majority of the committee would like to sell DIE-owner parts corresponding to 6.5 pst. to Norwegian Hydro and others. I'm working on preparing this hall. The aim of DEATH is to ensure the best possible management of resources and the highest possible value creation for the country. Today's day's day's management system, with Statoil as a businessman, has worked satisfactorily since it was established in 1985, according to the Department's view. However, there is now a need for changes to this management system, including: as a result of the partial privatisation of Statoil. The government proposes that the new company should realise the objective without having the competence of the traditional oil company. The Committee points out that it is necessary to limit the company’s tasks in order to avoid the development of an ordinary oil company. We aim to establish the company as soon as possible. This will happen before the partial privatisation of Statoil. The neutral and efficient use and development of natural gas transport and land installations has much to say in order to realise the value of this resource. Gas transport must be seen in a long-term perspective. We need an independent natural gas transport company to ensure neutrality and to increase transport efficiency. I have stated that existing operator responsibility should be transferred to the new company. We have to do this now, before the partial privatization of Statoil happens. Although this company is now being created, it is important to conclude that this will not involve changes in ownership of the pipeline. The owner of the pipe will still make decisions about development, tariff options, etc. This change will not result in any work being lost. Extensive tasks for the company must be performed by existing organisations. Additions that perform functions that are transferred to the transport company will be provided with corresponding work in the new company. I have noted the Committee's comments on the establishment of a common ownership of the gas transport system. I want to follow up these comments, of course. The reality has changed. It would be a violation of previous traditions if, for the first time in history today, we did not change the framework to meet the new challenges. The paint is solid. We want the highest possible income. We'll let the industry evolve, we'll secure the employment, we'll take care of the skills. We want to make the Norwegian socket attractive. Then we have to have a tool that makes it possible. The tool provides multiple settings, and I want to recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1372	The Christian People's Party has wanted a broad settlement. We've got that, and we're happy for that. Our debate has shown that we want to base the debate on an expression of the will of all parties to find common solutions to the main elements of the scheme presented by the Government. With that in mind, many of us might have expected a somewhat more humble attitude from the government's representatives, who are very concerned to mark in this Chamber that they have got a majority of the Government's views on the main challenges. Let me then reiterate that I also feel the need to say on behalf of the opposition that I am very pleased that the Government has been willing to meet the opposition to our demands, and that thus not only has it adjusted its policy, but in important areas changed policy. Jan Tore Sanner has presented this. The Prime Minister refers to the changes that have been made, as so-called less significant adjustments, Tore Nordtun said earlier today that the changes that have been made are dramatic changes, and also the oil and energy minister's amendments are debatable. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to answer the following questions: To change from 20 to 21,5 pst. represents sums of 7-8, maybe DKK 10 billion. Does the Council of State consider this to be debatable and so-called less significant adjustments? The second question is: the Council of State has expressed itself relatively boldly in relation to this percentage and thought very publicly to increase it, that we should be higher. Does the Council of State have a clear position as to whether the limit that is now set is a final limit, or does the Minister of Oil and Energy think that here we must take a next step as the conditions in the Workers' Party facilitate it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1381	I have to admit that I am a little surprised by this line, but I am going to read through my article again to be on the safe side. What I was trying to express was that several parties have shown great willingness to arrive at a common position, and of course I am very pleased about that. I have no problem sharing my joy with the other parties to the agreement and I think it's very good that you've reached a compromise. So I have to admit that I didn't think these changes are so huge or significant or very difficult, but they're no less important for that reason. My main estate was at least an attempt to express the joy that I feel about that decision and the plural setting that we see today. When it's for the future, I think it's very hard to be bastant about it. Of course, it will be so that every single accumulation at any time can evaluate all sides of this matter. But the most important thing for me has been getting robust clarifications, and I feel that I have now received them. We have no concrete suggestions from the Labour Party to make changes in the rates of pay that have become a few today, but of course it will be up to future growth to evaluate this when that time has to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1392	Let me start by congratulating the Council of State on new and up-to-date tools in the petroleum policy that could provide room for dynamic development in the industry. This is important, as the Council of State also stressed, both in order to preserve and further develop the importance of the petroleum sector for Norway, both in terms of industrial development and in terms of value creation in order to ensure the well-being of the society. In my opinion, the Council of State in the proposal that was on the table has shown a willingness to focus on the majority of the population. Also through the negotiations that have taken place, the Council of State has shown the willingness to meet the majority. With regard to the future, let me just remind you that the new SøE company will have both a right and an obligation to propose the exchange and sale of SøE shares if it could contribute to increased value creation for Norwegian society. It's in addition to the 21.5 pst. as we adopt today. As a result, further dynamic development has been established. I am also pleased that we in Stortinget have asked the Council of State to convene the companies, so that we can establish a joint ownership of gas transport based on GasLed. Let me just conclude by asking the Council of State if he can elaborate on the issue of role conflicts a little bit further. I challenged the Council of State on it, and he answered with one-sided focus on state ownership. Also High acknowledges that the state will be the owner of Statoil in the considerable future. We believe that the state should at least keep a third. There are other ways in which the Council of State can also avoid role conflicts, both in the way ownership is exercised and in the way in which the State organises its activities. Has the Council of State considered how we can reduce the risk of future role conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1403	Once again, I would just like to stress that I am happy for what we have done today, and I get almost the impression that this is going to be better and better. There are more and more people who want to be responsible for it, and it's a good sign. When it comes to the concrete question raised here by Jan Tore Sanner, the government is now going on a general basis through the issue of state ownership and organisation internally in the government to avoid potential role conflicts, including: assesses the location in the department and the type of thing. This is a general job, which has no special connection to the oil industry situation. I see, of course, that there may be role conflicts when one and the same authority is doing different tasks, but I still want to argue that these possible problems have been handled in a very good way until today. My ambition is that as long as I'm in charge, we'll manage this further in at least the same way, and then the work of the Government, when it's finished, will answer whether a well organized way of doing this in a different way in the future than it's done up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1412	As it now appears, the Storting will today decide that 21,5 pst. by SØE, sold by means of a targeted sale to individual companies, where Statoil is offered a 15 pst offer. of the shares. The proposal from the Government and the majority of the comments stress that all transactions are to be made at market value. Can the Council of State give me an explanation of how to determine the market value of these shares without offering the market shares through auction? It became known in the media a while ago that the department was already preparing to sell its shares to Statoil. The Council of State confirms this today and says that it will close in a short time. But can the Council of State give me an indication of what form of settlement you would like to choose with regard to Statoil's shares? If the proposal for a decision in force now receives a majority, one as a result of it is reasonably free.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1419	Let me start with the last one: that freedom is what we want to use. But I can't answer the question until we're at the time we're supposed to have. There will be opportunities to settle in accumulators, in cash, or in a combination. What kind of form we choose, we get to come back to. It has been said several times today that there is a preliminary distribution because Statoil gets to buy a larger part. Then there is a misunderstanding of the whole intention of what the Government adds. It's so that if you want to sell parts of DEATH, it's for you to get a larger value creation out of these parts. Thus, it is the state's interests that last when a sell to Statoil, and not Statoil's interests. Statoil is positioned on a Norwegian base in such a way that it is those that can derive most of the efficiencies resulting from the acquisition of a owner other than that of today. When it comes to market prices, oil parts are sold in large parts in the world every day. To a very small extent, this is done through the auctioning principle. The most common form is that two parties sit down and negotiate a price and become some of what these different fields are. When it comes to the items to be sold by the State, a thorough effort has been made over a longer period to identify the resources available in the different fields – geology, extraction, etc. This has been done with the help of the Oil Directorate and international specialists. Based on the advice of those best qualified to give such advice, one will sit down with Statoil and try to arrive at a price. I want to make it clear that there will be no price, nor will there be any hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1428	As is well known, the question of sub-privatisation of Statoil triggered a quasi-debate debate in the Labour Party. I noticed that the adherents of privatisation claimed that the need for so-called strategic alliances was a decisive point. But then it turned out that what was going to be a crown argument, confused along the way. It is quite clear that Statoil can join strategic alliances with others today. In general, the privatisation arguments, as outlined in the option, are not very precise. The change of lines between the representative Odd Roger Enoksen and the Prime Minister also showed that. It seems that one view sums up everything, briefly and well: Statoil will be like other oil companies. It's that simple. But the more important it is to address the following control questions to the oil and energy minister: Can it be demonstrated that companies that are wholly or partly private appear to be more efficient in the production and search for oil and gas than Statoil, which is 100 pst. owned by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1435	The representative of Dale pointed out that it has our debate in the Labour Party. It does – a good and thorough debate. But, as far as I know, there has been a certain debate in the Central Party as well. These include: So my predecessor, who dates from the Center Party, has said publicly that she thinks it would be an advantage for Statoil to be privatized. It was also such that former Prime Minister Bondevik said that had only the government sat a little longer, one would probably agree on this matter. This must mean that either the Center Party must have given itself to the other two parties, or the opposite. Then it would be that the meat weight is the heaviest. So, in this context, maybe the Center Party is happy that they got out and thus didn't take such a position. In fact, when it comes to strategic alliances, there have been huge changes in the oil industry in recent years. These include: so that in Azerbaijan, where Statoil has been through alliances with other companies, Statoil has now been pushed out, simply because their alliance partners have reunited with other companies. This results in the situation for companies such as Statoil has become harder. That's why I definitely mean that the argument about having the ability to use their axes also in strategic alliances, not only is sustainable, but very good. And then finally, the representative Dale has a question about being much more effective in being private. For the Labour Party, there has never been a decisive question in this debate. Our wish is that Statoil, a well-driving company, will make it possible to develop further and take care of what they have done to date. We believe that the new policy in this area will be more likely to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1444	I note that the Minister of Oil, like the Prime Minister, argues with a hesitancy for a position that has been taken relatively recently. So the working party went to the opposite point of view of what this is saying in the hall. We have to take note of that. But that's why the style you choose to defend this position will seem a little bit fresh and will make you perhaps miss a part of what's been most important in oil policy, that's the long-termity that's been there, and the anchoring of the people. And of course, it's a democratic problem that you choose to carry this out in this big period, where there's only a few of the parties that have actually gone to the elections for this to happen. We have to take note of that. But there are only a few months left for the big shot, where this would naturally be part of the themes that the parties presented to their voters. What's also amazing is to see the arguments used. For the arguments used for the privatisation of Statoil and sales of DIE, assumptions – assumptions that do not prove to be conclusive – are at best based on assumptions. Effectiveness is e.g. an argument used by many in this room. Is it given that Statoil privatized is more effective than a whole-time state company? The fact that the two former governors of Statoil got fired shows that the state as 100 pst. the owner was a demanding owner, even much more demanding than the partially privatised Hydro, which has not fired its management, despite large exceedances. It shows that the state has that role. So it's said that this will lead to more value creation. Yes, is it given? Where in the world are we going to find evidence that this leads to increased value creation? It has not been given at all that a private company is more efficient or more valuable. And the final point is, will this contribute to the state getting more revenue? Nope! The ways of money are incalculable. Significant parts of these sums that go straight into the treasury are now going through the corporations. That means that many of these assumptions aren't necessarily going to keep going. And this is my question to the Council of State: how is he going to evaluate whether this is a success from the state's point of view, not from the point of view of the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1455	I must first thank you for being produced as a fresh-freezer. At least that suggests that I can show an involvement in a matter that I have been working on for over two years. And it's not like there's something in the Workers' Party's election program for this period that one should not be able to change the ownership of Statoil. So claiming that one of these goes against its own program, there's no basis for it. So the reason why we're doing this is that we want to take care of the values that are created in 30 years. These are primarily changes in the agent, and not changes in the target. For us, it is more important to hold on to the objectives, which have been a great deal for many years, than to hang out in the tools that have been used. For us it's actually so that we see that one here has to make a choice, if one will leave the painting, or if one will leave the painting. For us, it has been much easier to say that the paint is more important than the tool. There are few things with which our work is more thorough, and which are documented better than this. The previous government worked on this matter for a long time, obtained a lot of documentation, rented help from outside, and got the best people in the world to use their resources to look at things. This Government has done the same. The Committee has done a very thorough job, has had long and extensive hearings, and the annexes to the case, which have been forwarded from the Government, are extremely thorough. A finn few other things that have been treated accordingly, and where one has had the same amount of documentation and such good basis for taking its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1468	It was very interesting now to hear the Minister of Oil and Energy Aksensing say that getting a stock exchange on Statoil and getting in also some private owners would lead to better value creation than if Statoil remained a 100 pst. State owned company. I think that's unusually nice. Because that's the argument that the Progress Party has been using for 15 years, when we've been calling for the stock exchange listing of Statoil, get some people who make more demands, that Statoil be measured through stock exchanges, etc., which has been absent so far, and then have active owners who would be able to follow. So it's nice that the Workers' Party here has turned around dramatically in its argument. And it would be interesting to hear why you don't use the exact same argument for Statkraft, because the exact same thing has to apply there, that you get stock exchange listings and private owners. So you get a better guarantee of value creation, a better guarantee of real value creation in that company. So we hope that after this lesson that you have now finally taken inwards, the consequence of that is in many of the other 100 pst. State owned enterprises, for the same argument is applicable there. So I also hope that someday it will be clarified how it is with ESA's view of this. If you do not sell shares in auction, i.e. to the maximum bidder for the individual shares, then there may well be allegations of hidden State aid to Statoil and concealed state aid to Hydro. If other foreign companies were willing to pay a higher share of some SAD shares sold to Statoil or Hydro, it could be a conflict. That's why we've said that we should sell the shares to the maximum bidder. Because as far as constellation and composition of concessions are concerned, it would be natural that the highest bidders are also those who are already active in a concession and have the best knowledge. It could be interesting if the Council of State could later clarify the relationship with ESA and hide the State aid issue. Then I want to refer to the comments of the Progress Party regarding research funds. It is gratifying that a joint committee says that it is important ‘that the State has a responsibility, both as authority and as a significant owner, to promote the research, development and industrialisation of new ideas’. The problem is that as long as some of these research funds are allocated over the annual government budgets, it is one of the posts that a late night hour can be greatly reduced because of the need for money in the negotiations on the state budget. That means you don't have predictability. That is why we hope that the Council of State will consider – as we propose – to set aside a significant amount of EUR 10 billion, to a fixed fund, whose return is to go to this research. How it is organised will be assessed by the Ministry, but predictability will be ensured by its withdrawal from the annual budgetary procedure and by annual nightly budgetary conciliation negotiations. And we will have exactly the stability that is necessary and proper. This is a technique that we believe should be applied in some other areas, too, so as to limit the possibilities for the Storting to take'stupid' decisions in the budgetary procedure; reducing the possibility of removing the long-term, predictable, which will be necessary in many areas. We hope that something will be found here, so that the state, as the great owner of the land, will also take part in the responsibility. Because, as a country, we get the largest income from new technologies that can increase the rate of extraction, or that can reduce the cost of the socket, and that can also strengthen security, which are among the areas we have mentioned in our remarks. So finally, I think it's strange that no more are in favour of our proposal to transfer some of the shares in Statoil to the Norwegian people in connection with the stock exchange listing. If I do not recall completely wrong, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said that Statoil is the Norwegian oil company. Why in the world can't the Norwegian people themselves dispose of some of the shares that are there? We suggest transferring 15 pst. of the shares in Statoil directly to the people. Each citizen will then have his own ownership of Statoil. At the same time, we get some capital transferred to the private part of our society, and I can't believe that this would in any way give anything but benefits to the entire Norwegian community and to the Norwegian people. We think it's strange to doubt that you can only sell shares, for the income you get from the sale, you can't use anything but to buy more shares in Chase Manhattan Bank, Philip Morris and Coca-Cola.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1484	The size currently addresses the oil and gas policy of the future, a major and important issue that concerns the management of a monthly part of national wealth. The resources belong to the whole of Norwegian society and are to be administered for the benefit of us now living, and for the benefit of future generations. Today’s decisions will provide national economic and industrial policy leaders for many, many years to come. Hence, it is so important that a broad agreement has been reached in the Grand Duchy about these main features. Good and stable framework conditions are now being established. The Labour Party is pleased – as has been said before – that we, together with the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, make a plurality that does not express a particularly divisive view of the most important questions raised in the collapse proposition. None of the parties making up this plurality, make other suggestions or have their own specific comments. This foundation, which has now been laid before oil and gas policy in the future, stands out as particularly solid. The working party has traditions to build robust pluralities in petroleum policy. Also the previous petroleum agreement, in 1984, had this quality. Then it was the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party that stood together about the main features. It has been a strength for our oil policy that it is based on a broad plurality and a great political settlement. It has given rise to misgivings and a serious situation when it comes to important parts of Norwegian policy. As motorised petroleum supplies were detected on the Norwegian continental shelf at the end of the 1960s, it has been an important objective to develop national competence and national industry. This applies, inter alia, to: the construction and further development of our shipbuilding and supply industries. Today, we have an industry that is both technologically and internationally competitive in many areas, and is responsible for monthly value creation. These possibilities are still high when it comes to value creation. We know that over 70,000 people are involved in this sector, and it bears witness to a great and viable industry. Many coastal communities depend entirely on this industry. The Norwegian continental shelf still offers promising possibilities both in the North Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea. So now there's about 20 pst. of the known reserves of oil and gas on the Norwegian base. Reserves have been identified which may give rise to oil production for 20 to 25 years and gas production for up to 100 years. In addition, there will be opportunities for new findings and increased extraction rates in each well, as a result of the technological advances that have taken place. Here it has actually been an adventurous development. Oil and gas markets, companies and competitive conditions are changing and evolving. The international markets for Norwegian natural gas are characterised by a certain degree of uncertainty. The structural changes currently taking place in the European gas and electricity markets, driven by increased competition and new framework conditions, are a major and demanding challenge. The domestic market for direct use of natural gas for industry, commercial purposes, district heating and other uses must be further developed. The use of natural gas, including natural gas, will continue to be highly potential for years to come. in the field of farming, in the field of boat and ferry transport along the coast and in the field of commercial use of biotechnology. When it comes to our ferry traffic, we should probably switch to gas-powered ferries to reduce NOx emissions, which are too large in Norway. Here, too, oil companies must be aware of their grievances and spend money and planning for domestic use in conjunction with local operators. In recent years, we have seen a number of mergers and acquisitions in the oil and gas industry across borders. We have to make sure that the Norwegian oil companies and the supplier industry develop their skills and values. Both Statoil and Norsk Hydro have established good positions in other countries. A number of Norwegian suppliers have also established important positions in other countries and in other parts of the world. Internationalisation is an important strategy for future developments, even when the continental shelf enters a more mature stage, where the number of new findings and production can decline. 35 years with petroleum industry on Norwegian base has given a complicated ownership composition and a complicated decision structure in many of the extraction rights given. Today, the structure is poorly adapted to the need to reduce costs and to increase production. Therefore, it is important that the State, through its instruments, contributes to greater value creation on the base. DEATH, the country's direct owners, is such an instrument. The separation of ownership that the Government is authorised to implement will increase the Community's revenues from the petroleum sector. When Statoil was created early in the 1970s, state ownership was a basis for securing Norwegian interests, economic and management interests, as well as the need to build national petroleum competence in the business and management sectors. The framework for Statoil has changed in the 1980s and 1990s. From being a political instrument, they must now compete on a commercial basis in a liberalised market. The state's ownership, by running through Statoil, is no longer needed. Now the authorities control through concessions, laws and rules and individual decisions. For this reason, it is important today to say that it is in the way that the State secures its interests, and Statoil must secure its interests on the basis of entirely commercial terms. Thus, ownership may be in another way in Statoil. I'm glad that one today says that Statoil can get others into a company. In the case of the sale of parts held by the State in DØE, the foundation is an increase in value creation on Norwegian pedestal and even more industrial development. My view is that it's natural that Statoil gets the majority of these percentages that are now to be sold, to secure the state's interests. But of course, Hydro also has to buy some parts. This 21.5 pst saddle. is to increase the value creation and improve the cadastral zoning of the base between the companies and between the fields. Research and development are also important. And all that we can do to develop oil and gas, both our fields and their use, requires that a lot more – large numbers – bet when it comes to research and development. So today, a new public limited liability company will be set up for the maintenance of DæE, a new public limited liability company for gas transport, the replacement of owner parts of the pipeline between the State and Statoil and Statoil’s payment for the SØE parts. In my view, these decisions are based on the premises presented in the proposition, which can provide safe forecasts and stability for the whole petroleum sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1522	We are currently dealing with one of the biggest and most important issues throughout this large-scale process. The partial privatisation and listing of Statoil involves major changes in Norwegian oil and gas policy that will guide many, many years to come. In parallel with the sale of the shares of DøE, we're talking about the biggest conversion of the petroleum business that's been going on for 15 years, maybe even further. What we are doing today will therefore have significant consequences for our country and for the Norwegian economy in the foreseeable future. The choices now made by the Storting are therefore of the utmost importance. I'm glad it turned out to be possible to gather a broad majority behind the deal that's in the situation. For some policy areas, solid and broad support is essential in order to ensure a robustness that can account for different governments and constellations in the United Kingdom. Petroleum policy is such an area, and the result that exists today has a device that should withstand changing political weather conditions. International petroleum activities are rapidly changing. Companies merge at a high rate and create large units with significant financial strength. It provides space for action and opportunities to operate in several areas of activity and in several parts of the world. The reorganisations adopted today by the Storting will more effectively ensure that Statoil is also given the opportunity to participate more actively in an international market. The company is given greater opportunity to act quickly, based on greater freedom and a strengthened financial situation. The main aim is to maximise the values represented by the Norwegian base, for the benefit of the Norwegian people, the Norwegian society and for future generations. That purpose is, in my opinion, well taken care of by the agreement that is being dealt with in Stortingen today. The framework conditions for Statoil have changed in the 1980s and 1990s. From being a privileged company and political instrument, the company today competes on a purely commercial basis in liberalised markets both internationally and on a Norwegian basis. A key ownership of Statoil has been important and necessary, including: in a build-up phase of Norwegian petroleum competence. The further development of this competence no longer necessarily requires State ownership, and the economic and governance justifications for preferential ownership are no longer relevant. The State can secure its income through other instruments and Statoil can today increase its value creation on the base by a greater degree of exemption from government bonds. However, it is important to stress that the oil and gas resources on the base are still to be regarded as State property and that the State must ensure future control and support of the business. The current reorganisations do not preclude this. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in that the State remains with a significant majority ownership in Statoil. Much of the debate has so far focused on the extent of sub-privatisation and the proportion of the SDEE portfolio to be offered for sale. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure that sales of SDEE shares also help to ensure increased efficiency and value creation on the base, while ensuring and maximising the country's revenues. Given the robustness of the tool for securing the State's rent on land, it is important that the State continues to retain significant shares in the large oil and gas fields. It has also been important to ensure a slightly larger balance between Statoil and Norsk Hydro in the allocation and sale of SADØE shares than was the starting point of the Government. I am therefore pleased that the majority agrees to increase the percentage to be put out for sale, something. This ensures Statoil 15 pst., in line with the Government's proposal, while 6.5 pst. may be distributed between Norwegian Hydro and other companies, in line with the views of the other three parties contained in the agreement. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the socket is still attractive to foreign stakeholders and investors. We have focused on the natural place of small companies as part of the diversity of Norwegian capital. In particular, this is important in relation to small fields and tail production which, by means of smaller companies, can contribute to a better use of resources, thereby increasing the value creation of Norwegian pedestals. All these considerations have been taken into account in the majority voting we have before us. It provides for the setting up of a new state company to manage the SDOE portfolio in extraction permits, pipelines and land facilities in which the State retains shares. The majority, including the Christian People's Party, assume that the company's objective will be primarily to maximise the country's net cash flow from a long-term perspective, while at the same time it is a clear premise that the company should not develop into a traditional oil company. I am pleased that the attitude that is being treated today represents a broad compromise that is robust in meeting different constellations and governments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1543	Today does not represent the end of a matter, but the beginning of a new epoch. The size is currently pointing out a direction in which one has adjusted Norwegian oil policy more according to the terrain. In our opinion, Norway is out in the last few years, but this is a happy day anyway. The right has gone into this matter with a clear view of which direction a wish and it is necessary to go, but at the same time with the intention of achieving a solution that is at the heart of all the parties involved in the possible government options. This ensures predictability and stability for Norway’s main industry. As I've had a lot of experience in the past, it's a significant competence built up in Statoil through 30 years of investment. This competence gives Norway great opportunities to have a company that can be revisited internationally. Today's changes make it easier. Jan Tore Sanner has previously explained the main points of view of the Right in the matter. So I'm going to go into a couple of areas. The majority are involved in this matter in order for the Ministry to facilitate small savers to purchase shares in Statoil. In order to succeed, the majority believe that there is a need for specific measures. It has its own value that Norwegian small savers engage in the company. It helps to secure a clearer Norwegian anchoring, create commitment to the company, and not least it helps to ensure transparency around the company. However, in my view, at the same time should ensure that specific arrangements are established for the employees of the company. Statoil employees have done an amazing job to bring the company into the position it has now entered. Unlike colleagues in other companies, they have not had the opportunity to participate in the increase in value through ownership of the company. Statoil is one of Norway's largest experts' organisations and competes with similar companies about the best people. Their competitors have for a long time had the opportunity to offer their employees favourable arrangements, which have made them co-owners in their workplaces. I hope that the department and the company come together to arrive at a discount scheme that can also apply to the company's employees, similar to that of other oil companies. One of the most complex questions in this case has been related to a new gas transport company. This is because one is satisfied with the way Statoil has carried out this task, while one has seen the need for change, a need for the companies themselves already in the early 1990s. The right is very pleased that one has now come up with a system whereby the State 100 pst. scheme is only a temporary scheme and that one aims to quickly establish a scheme in accordance with the GasLed model. However, it is clear that the purpose of this change is to ensure the efficiency, neutrality and further development of the gas transport system. It is still the Storting's position that the value creation should be taken into the field and not into the transport system. It is therefore important that this scheme does not prevent further industrial land-based use of gas. Therefore, it is a prerequisite for this solution that it does not entail any change in the potential for further industrial development in the Kårstø region. While the matter was being dealt with in Stortinget, doubts were raised about this. For this reason, the majority has underlined the importance of the Government facilitating a further commitment to industrialisation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1565	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1568	In a reply earlier today, I asked the Prime Minister about the consequence that the Workers' Party has now abandoned its absolute claim that the State should own two thirds of Statoil. Furthermore, I asked about the importance that the Workers' Party in the suspension has given its support to a relatively massive criticism of public ownership as inefficient, not suitable as a tool in a deregulated market, too heavy compared to the decision-making process. Furthermore, it agrees that the State is not risky enough as its owner and that it holds market skepticism by state ownership. At all: The attitude is a violent settlement of public ownership, as I must say surprises me, and as the Workers' Party and the rest of us will undoubtedly meet in other contexts here in the Stortinge in the future. When the Workers’ Party – and the majority of the Committee – now concludes that the purpose of the future ownership of Statoil is to ensure that the company’s head office is anchored in Norway, which thus requires no more than one third of its ownership, I have to say that the Prime Minister’s response to me is at best a derailment of the debate when he does not do anything else in his reply but claim that the Centre Party is more concerned with the state’s own gas stations than that we should own hospitals. Yes, then I've made a sore point at the Workers' Party. First of all, it doesn't matter to the Central Party if the state is 100 pst. owner or not in service stations. It's an assessment that Statoil itself has to make if you want to sit as 100 pst. owner or not, and whether you want to be the owner at all in service stations. There is a matter for Statoil's board to decide, regardless of whether the state is 100 pst. owner or not in Statoil. Secondly, the state acquisitions of hospitals do not imply more public ownership in hospitals. One expropriates hospitals as another level of government today owns, makes it a state property and completely removes it from popular governance by moving decisions regarding the operation of hospitals into enclosed spaces, away from popular governance. It is the hospital reform that the Prime Minister intervenes in a debate on the sale of State shares in Statoil. I'm afraid that as a result of the decision being made here today, we can expect further sales of the state's ownership of Statoil. It has been confirmed by the other partners, it is intended to go in that direction. And I take the Prime Minister's attempt to talk away my question and talk about other things as a confirmation that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1581	In a previous line to the oil and energy minister, I asked how it was intended to evaluate that this would be a success. I have noticed that the bulk of the population ‘takes the wave’ over something they call a historic decision. And that's right: this is a very far-reaching structural change in our oil policy. There is also a structural change related to the country’s income, and it is clear that this is an important issue for the Storting. So now the money is going to go, especially as far as the day is concerned, and I have a lot of understanding that both Statoil and Hydro and other oil companies now see access to a bundle of money that you haven't had before, and with the dollar price and the oil price that you have today, it's not possible to lose money on this. On the contrary, it means a very good income and a very great opportunity for Statoil. I can see that. But we must not mix the roles we have, because the Storting are the ones to manage the interests of society, and not the interests of Statoil, Hydro or other companies. That means that this question is essentially central. It's said with a lot of weight here that this is a necessary structural change in order to get more value creation, more efficiency and what is now being used of various honorary words that are commonly used in such contexts. But how have the Ministry and the Council of State planned to evaluate how this will be a success for society? You have to think about this. You can't just say that now we're going on the stock exchange, and so this is a success because privatisation itself is the goal. On the contrary, I believe that the Council of State has repeatedly said that this is an instrument for achieving an objective. The question is still pending after this debate. Throughout this whole process, where you're going to send Statoil on the stock exchange and also sell out the state's holdings in direct engagement, it's not clear to justify exactly this small point: why should this be better for the Norwegian community? And a graph of slit meters by slit meters, using a lot of touching words, these words that business is using, that really don't have content, at least not very fertile content. I want the Council of State to have the chance now at the end of the debate to say how the ministry intends to evaluate this in relation to the interests of the state, not in relation to Statoil's interests or in relation to Hydro's interests, but why one can say that one has actually achieved the objectives that one wants. Has more efficiency been achieved? Have you gained greater value? Has the Norwegian community also benefited from increased income? Has this been an important and necessary structural change, which the majority here have always said was necessary? But why? No one is giving a good answer. I would like the Council of State to take this challenge, because this is essentially an important point, especially because this is such a big structural change, as many people here stress, and because this is such a historic day where you take the wave around the bedside benches – I notice – not least from the first row around here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1594	Since I first take the word, let me use the power to distance myself from that way Carl I. Hagen interprets my post. I have not said anything in the debate today – and not before – about Statoil becoming a better company if it goes on the stock exchange. There are quite other things that I think we should be able to open up Statoil to other owners, not least the possibility of using axes in transactions with other companies, which is the most common form of listing when such companies are dealing with each other. So I have to admit that I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding SV's enormous commitment and their demand for evaluation methods, because the truth is that SV itself is going in to deliver 20 pst. And that's where we think we have a lot of efficiency gains to get. It can't be that there's a huge principal difference of 20 pst. and 21⁄2 pst. At least I don't understand that difference. We in my party have had only one wish, or at least one main wish, and that is to take care of society's interests. That is the basis for us to work on these matters. And so we think that the changes that we're making now will lead to a more efficient base and thus greater revenues for the Norwegian state. We also get a more attractive base. It will be more interesting for the oil companies to be on this base. Of course, it's an advantage for the companies, but it's primarily an advantage for Norway, because it's going to be an activity related to our base as, for example, our base. This means that the supply industry has work to do, which is not least important for those working in that industry and for a number of municipalities along the Norwegian coast. A lot of people claim that there is a great potential for better use of our socket. There's a little bit of different numbers out there and going, but let's say that DEATH is worth 500-600 billion kroner. Then 1 pst will. enhanced operation of the values will give billions of dollars to the state. It would be irresponsible if we didn't take that debate, go through the way it's going today, and see if it can be done in a better way. I want to claim that the arrangement for which the Center Party and SV are going in, would lead to the state, society, losing large values, and at least I don't want to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1621	Since the committee gave its opinion, new information has emerged that I, as the rapporteur, consider essential for this matter. The Competition Authority has objections that it is highly doubtful whether Statekraft can carry out the expansion in the Norwegian market to which they have requested capital. Against this background, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left proposals that the matter should be referred back to the Energy and Environment Committee. The aim is to bring the matter up again for treatment in Stortinget later in the spring session. I am promoting with this the distributed proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1630	There was then a proposal to postpone the examination of this matter, that it be sent back to the Energy and Environment Committee. We will then open up a short debate on the postponement proposal before we go to voting on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1635	The proposer was now quite brief as to why he wants to send the matter back. After the examination of the matter within the committee, I must say that I am very surprised that such a proposal for a postponement is now being put forward in the Chamber. I understand that the reason is that the Competition Authority will be brought in at this stage. I will follow the President's request to be brief, but I would say that the role of the Competition Authority is to come in after Government has made any purchase or strategic decisions – not in advance. That's what we're getting right now, because today we're dealing with an attitude about adding deposit capital and increasing the loan and guarantee framework for Statkraft SF – nothing else. The working party is definitely against that return.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1644	Unlike the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party has great sympathy for the Left's proposals. This is also evident from the comments in the suspension, where we ask the Competition Authority to follow developments in the Norwegian power market closely. With regard to this specific return proposal, we will refer to three points: 1st@item: inlistbox Any opinion of the Competition Authority on the subject of the case should be sought during the Committee’s proceedings. Questions should have been sent to the Ministry if the supervisory authority has given its opinion, including, where appropriate, a request that the supervisory authority be heard, if the ministry considers this to be in line with established practice.2. The role of the Competition Authority is to assess concrete acquisitions or acquisitions in relation to the Competition Act, and in particular Sections 3 to 11 of the Act. The function of supervision is limited to the first when State power may use the capital injection to make concrete purchases in the Norwegian market. It could be difficult to involve supervision in the assessment of capital injections based only on corporate strategies.3. The Competition Authority has not made a specific request for an opinion. If the Competition Authority itself had addressed the Stortinget with a request that they consider the matter we are dealing with today, the Christian People's Party would, of course, have given room for it, prepared it and supported the Left's proposal. However, we find it somewhat difficult to base such an approach on comments that have been made in the press. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1663	The right-hand side supports the proposal for re-dispatching. Let me stress that the reason for this is that there have been new elements in the matter, not a desire for a rematch. We recognise that there is a majority in this room that wants to spend €6 billion of taxpayers' money to enable State power to buy more of the power stations around the country and the beach, but we believe that new elements have emerged that have not been discussed in the proposition and that have not been adequately assessed during the committee's work. First of all, let me point out the opinions of the Competition Authority in the media, where they are unusually clear as to what the decision of the Storting could lead to in terms of granting market power to State power. The Ministry has a unilateral focus on the Nordic market, while the Competition Authority considers that the market power that Statekraft will have on the Norwegian market is relevant. Secondly, both the Central Statistical Bureau and others have made it clear that granting State power to the market would give Norwegian consumers a higher price of electricity. These are questions that we believe need to be clarified before Stortinget makes its decisions. If this is the case that the majority of the Storting does not want these questions to be evaluated, it means that with open eyes, they give and want to give State power to that type of market power, and that with open eyes they recognize that it will give Norwegian consumers an increase in electricity prices. I hope that more parties than those behind the proposal will support it, so that we can give this matter the treatment and the assessment it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1672	The Party supports the proposal to refer the matter back to the Committee. Signals from the Statistical Central Bureau, competition authorities and others are clear that this is an unfortunate development, which affects free competition and which will, of course, lead to higher electricity prices for consumers. In addition, in the last few days, we have had other forecasts of the evolution of electricity prices in Norway. In view of this, the Committee should re-examine the matter. It's against elections, so maybe the majority are making sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1679	I thought it would be most strange if the Stortinge sent these cases back to the Committee on the basis of their competition supervision, in my opinion, not a clear signal. Nor does supervision have a specific case to stick to. That is what we need to talk about when it comes to the Competition Authority. I also thought it was a little surprising – and I feel it a little bit like a training session – when we talk about it, that the Competition Authority should intervene against public ownership. If so, the consequence – as the Right Party and the Progress Party now talk – is that it should not be allowed for the public to have a strong ownership, because it conflicts with the Competition Authority. Then the intention of this proposal to send the case back is primarily to try to get foreign actors to buy up companies in Norway. If that is the opinion of the Competition Authority, I must say that then an assessment of a need for such supervision should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1686	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has presented a proposal that case no. 3 in today's map will be returned to the committee. There shall be strong arguments for the adoption of such a proposal. It must be demonstrated that, in the event of a failure, the Committee has concluded. No such documentation. There are no moments or information to put things in a new light. For example, the Committee was well aware of the volume of purchases that could be made under the auspices of State Power in the next few years. Furthermore, the relationship with the Competition Authority was well and precisely mentioned in St.prp. No 51. For us, the situation is clear. The reduction shall today address the issue of recapitalisation of Statkraft and increase the loan and guarantee framework. It's no big deal for the Competition Authority. On the other hand, it is up to the Competition Authority to assess the individual purchases. This can only happen when there are specific cases of buying-in, mergers. Another procedure is hard to imagine in practice and in principle. The centre party will therefore vote against the proposal from the representative of Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1693	The various parties then explained their views on this matter, and we called to vote on the return proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1699	Then we are ready to vote on proposal No. 5 on case No. 3, which is in practice a postponement proposal in relation to case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1706	Proposal No. 5 is presented by Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, saying: ‘Until. S. No 200 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26.ana.ud440e1720	Since the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over, we will begin with case No. 3 in the evening meeting.
