ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e27	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e32	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e37	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected as President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e54	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Advance Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and Mr Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that one of the independent representatives be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e61	We're moving towards a spring, but the Justice Committee will not release the prisoners with the new law on criminal enforcement. On the contrary, it will be tougher for offenders to execute their punishment. It's not primarily external relationships that get tougher, but with the new law we make demands on the offender to a completely different degree than before. He is required to meet his own reflection, realize what he has done, take responsibility for his own actions and demand that he do something with his future. The ideology behind the conflict councils is now being transferred to the rest of the criminal execution. The fact that such an ideology can be implemented in practice sounds quite utopian. It would also have been if this new law had been the result of a bureaucratic work assigned some theoretical interpretations by the politicians. But it's something much more. It allows already successful, tried-and-tested ideas. It imposes an influence on the criminal justice system that is currently working well in some places, but which is highly dependent on people on the road. Rarely has a law become so in the pact with positive experience from practice, and in the pact with those who know where the shoe prints. The preparation of the law started in 1994 when work on the notification of criminal law started. The notification was made through group work with the members of the criminal service. It was studied and treated by five Justice Ministers, before the Stortinget gave its signals. Meanwhile, there was a sort of silent revolution in Norwegian prisons. From a situation of employees who, to a large extent, viewed themselves as key custodians, with some firemen in between, we find today almost only firemen who will do crime prevention work in many ways. The ideas contained in the Communication were put into practice. The law we're about to adopt today captures the good from today's practice and the Storting's previously given signals. I am pleased that a unanimous committee ends up on the Government's main lines and principles of criminal execution. Not primarily for the sake of labor party government, but because I think this is a good contribution to the fight against crime. There is unanimity in the committee that the purpose of the punishment is both to punish the offender for what he has done, and to help the offender return to a crime-free life in society. The latter implies full agreement with the principle that no zone shall be zoned under more stringent conditions than is necessary for safety and that all shall be ensured a progression in the set-aside. Prisoners shall gradually zone under freer forms, which will require him to take more responsibility for himself, his actions and his future. On the other hand, it is important that, in the case of detention, and in the case of transfers to a less stringent settlement, and in the case of different leave, release and play, the overall weight of the security shall always be assigned to the assessment. It is also important to consider whether a type of settlement in the specific case would be consistent with the general sense of law. If it does, it means that one part of the purpose of the punishment is not being fulfilled. We are introducing a new concept for all settlements of punishments that take place outside prisons, namely social punishment. It embraces both past community service and conditional punishment with conditions. We hope that the new scheme will provide more relevant content in relation to rehabilitation, and not least that the follow-up, control and possible reaction to fractures will be much better. Prisons are hereafter not called national, county and auxiliary prisons, but simply prisons, and then the level of security in the various departments will characterise the nature of prison and housing. The Committee is pleased that the need for departments with a particularly high level of safety has now been identified by law. There is a need, as tough as the evolution of crime has been, and not least resource departments for those who need extra wide professional follow-up. The Committee also supports the new division of regions and the delegation of power. The closer the decision-making authority is to the prisoner, the greater the possibility of a correct decision being taken. The Committee considers that, with more delegation of power, it is also important that the principle of non-discrimination be respected. It is therefore good to have this new legislation more clearly and clearly regulated a number of important demarcations, how to use intervention, what rights are for prisoners, and other criteria that were previously largely left to discretion. Concrete assessments and judgements must also be in the new system. It is therefore important that the independent supervisory councils to be held in each region function properly and that it is monitored and evaluated. The content of the compensation had been worth a long talk in itself, but I will carefully note that a relevant content adapted to the individual is most often necessary for the offender to have the opportunity to go out into a life without crime. The contact officer system is absolutely central to getting it done. It is also important that we now have a basic goodbye to the idea of penal work by replacing the obligation of employment in prisons with an obligation of activity. The point is that prisoners should not be allowed to pass on and not arrest themselves in the neck. They shall participate in work, education, training and programmes and what best could help them into a new life. In order to achieve this, it is also dependent on much greater follow-up and provision of services and services to prisoners by public authorities and others outside prison. Already today, there is a lot of traffic in and out of prison, and it will be bigger than less with the new law. It is therefore very important that control of all those passing in and out be significantly better than today. It is unacceptable that drugs or weapons are smuggled into prisons or that crime is otherwise planned or driven. The Committee therefore supports the proposed measures, which allow for a greater degree of controls on prisoners, employees and others entering and entering prisons, and also increased access to samples of prisoners. The new system of increasingly freer settlement and more responsibility for individual offenders also contradicts the need to respond more quickly and more stringently to breaches of trust, responsibility and conditions given. Take, for example: the probation scheme. It had begun to live its own life, with almost automatic release after two thirds of atoning, and with few reactions to breaks in the probationary period. This was tightened up in connection with the notification of criminal justice, and this is further followed up in the law. If parole is granted, it shall be part of the settling and a real test. If the test is not passed, there is a breach of conditions or a new crime, yes, it must be a tactile reaction. And in the event of a repeated breach, he's going back into prison as a proponent. The same principle applies throughout: the return to a more stringent settlement if there is reason to do so, less leave in the event of a breach of permit conditions, criminal liability in the event of an escape, etc. Then we see that there are some different assessments of the parties between how best to ensure a controlled return to society. For the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee, there is a central issue: Who do you want as a neighbour? We believe that it is important to give criminals the best possible conditions to get back to a life without crime. I would much rather have as a neighbour a former criminal who has shown through an increasingly freer atonement under full control that he is able to behave than a criminal who has not been tried out in reality under control and supervision. For this reason, the majority is in favour of parole as part of the compensation when it is certainly safe and does not run counter to the general sense of law. That's why, under the same assumptions, we're going to apply transitional dwellings under the last part of the property where it can produce positive results. That is why we want to make it very clear that, when necessary to be able to take part in an arrangement to get back on the leg, one can consider that some of the penalties are being imposed in an out-of-prison scheme. Finally, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the Committee. There's a change that drowned us in all the paragraphs, but that we all agree on. It is a matter of delimiting the right of appeal to the prisoner in relation to decisions on where to be admitted to prison. In reality, it will not weaken the legal certainty of the prisoner, but it will limit the burden on bureaucracy. The question is addressed in a reply letter from the Ministry of Justice to the Committee of 14 March this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e93	Ane Sofie Timberås has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e98	The Christian People's Party is united with the Workers' Party in almost everything that is stated in the Committee's comments. However, we have one point that is important to us, not because it was supposed to be a fanatic for the Christian People's Party, but because we believe it is essential in terms of them as sons in Norwegian prisons. It is about removing the legal base for prison priests. We think that's dramatic because in turn it can result in the removal of an important aid body for those who are engaged, not only in relation to what goes on the spiritual dimension, but also in social activities of different kinds. When the Workers' Party does not wish to participate in this statutory act, the notification states that the reason is that a transfer of responsibility from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has been made, and that therefore the prison services are now part of that department. But neither is there a law - abiding place for the prison priests. They have to hear at home somewhere. My question to the Workers' Party is this: Does it mean that the Workers' Party wants to remove the legal base for prison priests in Norwegian prisons, that it is considered that the parish priest in the area in question can take responsibility for the prison services per year? Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e108	It was not so surprising that the representative of the Christian People's Party took up the theme. It was more surprising that he declared that it was not a fanatical matter for the party, because it is well known that prison performances have been a good negotiating card to have in need of a budget compromise over the years I have been here at least. What we do in the setting of this new law is to legislate the right to exercise their religion or their view of life. I want to quote from the setting where everyone, except the Advancement Party, says that they ‘shows that the need to exercise one’s religion or outlook on life can be particularly great when soning and supports the legalisation of the right to have such exercise. It also provides for the provision of access to a pastor or other life-seeker’. That's why I'm not so worried. So we are legislating the right to facilitate the exercise of their religion and their view of life, and that's the primary thing. How it is solved in practice, whether you engage a pastor, or whether you have a firm prestige, who is going to take care of it in practice, I'm not so worried about as long as we have legalized the right to exercise it properly. Today, we have quite a number of achievements that have been achieved through all our budgetary compromises, and I am honestly not particularly concerned that some of them will disappear. Where it turns out that they work well, I can see no reason why they should not continue to work. But in places where they might find other solutions that will work better in practice, we should not legislate that it should be solved just like that or in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e120	I probably said this in a somewhat aggravated way, because the representative of the German People's Party perceived it as perhaps this question was not of any importance to the Christian People's Party. Of course it's important, but it's not because it's important for the Christian People's Party, we're taking it up, but because we think it's important for the prisoners. That's the main point of the question. I also interpret the Workers' Party as not really wanting to remove the performances, and I would like the representative, Mr. Tömerås, to respond to whether or not you want to remove the performances and leave this to – perhaps something irreverent – a casually called priest instead of a person who – as today – has special education and who receives both special follow-up and further training, etc. within this field. Take, for example: Ullersmo, where it works two priests. Does this mean that it can be expected that the congregational priests in that area will be given the equivalent if one removes the performances of the prison per person? Today? In addition, in the Christian People's Party's proposal for a law clause, it is a law of performance in the sense that they should operate at any institution, and that means in practice – as we read it and interpret it – that it opens up the possibility of employing more than what is per. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e127	I really don't have anything new to add to what I said before. In the Labour Party, we also believe that it may be important, especially when you are in prison, to have the opportunity to practice your religion or view of life, and that conditions are properly arranged for it. Of course, there is no target for the Workers' Party to remove or remove the performances that may be associated with prisons today. But at the same time, we believe that it is a practical question, which needs to be resolved in the most appropriate way possible. And I feel quite confident that it will be properly maintained in the future, even if responsibility is transferred to another department, and that, of course, the skills of people who are employed today will also be taken care of. And if, as the representative pointed out, you have appropriate course and training programmes that these pastors or life vision guides can go through, then there is no need to put a strain on something that works well per. today. However, the point must be to find the most practical solution adapted to each prison and each prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e132	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e135	It's an important matter we have to deal with today. The Penal Code is about what happens after a conviction. Punishment, rehabilitation, repatriation to society — key issues of great importance to individuals and society in general. If we get to a successful criminal execution, it will mean a reduction in the crime of our society. That is also our goal, and hopefully we have taken some steps on the way to this matter. But I will not fail to mention that in this case, too, there are decisions that will not strengthen criminal justice, and that the Christian People's Party considers very regrettable. It has already been expressed through the change of lines with the representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås. The keyword is the prison service, but I will come back to it later in my post. The background to the issue we are dealing with now is the Criminal Service Communication and Action Plan on Drugs — both presented by the Bondevik government. The message set out the following values for the criminal justice system: Criminal law responses shall be carried out in a socially sound manner. Judgments shall be protected against infringement and arbitrariness. Full payment shall be based on individual needs and assumptions and shall support the will of convictions to break the crime. Criminal law and enforcement are based on humaneness, legal certainty and non-discrimination. Transparency and information shall be ensured for the public. Judgments shall be guaranteed the rights of all citizens under the law within the limits of criminal execution. Judgments shall not be subject to restrictions or enforcement under more stringent conditions than those resulting from the penalty. Dome fields shall be provided with a satisfactory completion standard. Criminal custody shall stimulate the will of convictions for responsibility for their own lives. The daily life of prisons shall be characterised by active cooperation between the members of the prison and the prisoners. The administrative and organisational arrangements of criminal services shall ensure optimal resource use. The whole Storting, with the exception of the Advance Party, joined this basis of values, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that this is also the basis of the Penal Code. The purpose paragraph of Section 2 of the Act provides, in general, the basis on which the criminal service notification was based, and a unanimous committee supports the proposed purpose paragraph. Although today we are dealing with what is going to happen to people who are convicted of criminal offences, I would like to stress that it must of course be an objective that people do not come to this stage – that is, that we must have a great deal of effort in relation to prevention work. Greater efforts at prevention will, hopefully, lead to fewer contacts with the police, the courts and, finally, with the criminal justice system. But once the act is done and the perpetrator is convicted, we have to add up to a criminal code that allows the perpetrator to go back to society as a good citizen. That must be our goal, even though we know it can be hard to achieve. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the replacement of the concept of «compulsory employment» by «compulsory activity». It is important that the prisoner is not passive in prison, but that he is working instead of schooling, or with other measures that may be appropriate for the rehabilitation of the prisoner, when appropriate. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of involving especially violent and moral convictions in programmes to help them change behaviour. There are still many prisoners who do not receive such a programme offer, and the Christian People's Party believes that there must be a rapid expansion of such programmes. Not only through programmes, but also through the day-to-day life of the prison, the prisoners must gain insight into their own actions and the damage they cause to their victims. This will increase the possibilities for changing behaviour. The Christian People's Party also supports a gradual return to society through reconciliation under increasingly free conditions and with greater demands for them as sons. It's important for the prisoner to get used to life in freedom. It's clear there's a great transition from being locked in and monitored, with fixed routines and time to dealing with and others who control your life, to a life in freedom where no one has control over you. Sudden freedom can be difficult to deal with, so it is important to gradually return to freedom and society. However, I would like to stress that it is very important for the Christian People's Party not to transfer a sentence to a more open settlement if such transfer would not be safe. As stated in the value base of criminal law, the prisoner has the same public service requirements as other citizens. Good cooperation between prisons and voluntary care on the one hand and public administration on the other is therefore important. The Christian People’s Party supports the proposal for the organisational division of criminal services at local, regional and criminal level and the central administration of criminal services, as well as the division of powers/areas of action. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of the rules on professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy shall not prevent police and prosecution authorities from being notified when convictions are given leave, criminal offence or release. And not least, it is absolutely central that the offended, or in special cases offended by relatives or survivors, can get a notice of the release of sentences. We know that it can be very burdensome for the victim or other related to meet the sentence after release. There may also be cases where the victim or other related persons have justified the fear of retaliation from convictions. In these cases, it is very important that the leave/release does not come as a surprise to them. Not least, this will be central to violent or criminal proceedings. In such cases, it is also necessary to consider whether to impose a restraining order on the perpetrator, which provides the victim or other related protection and greater security. The person in prison is subject to control and exercise of authority, and it may be appropriate to use various coercive measures against him. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that independent bodies are important to oversee the business and support the establishment of regional supervisory councils. Anyone who has followed the debate in the field of criminal policy over time knows that the Justice Committee has for a long time been involved in the settlement queues and the time it takes from the conviction to the sentence being called into acquittal. The goal of not going beyond two months has still not been achieved, and the Christian People's Party will stress the Committee's comment that we assume that the measures needed to improve the situation are being taken by the Government. It is unfortunate if the dome is not quickly called to atonement. This applies to the sentence itself, which has to wait to be settled separately. A quick response will give greater effect and better effect – the possibilities for the perpetrator to end up with his criminal career thus increasing. Unfortunately, many convictions will take a long wait for new criminal offences. For offended persons and for the rest of society, it may be perceived as provocation that convictions continue to move freely after the verdict has been passed. In prisons with a high level of security, in prisons with a low level of security or in transitional dwellings, various forms of housing can be carried out. In exceptional cases, it may also be carried out outside prison with special conditions under Section 16 or as probation under conditions under the second paragraph of Section 43. Finally, penalties can also be carried out by means of day-to-day accommodation in an institution or hospital. I have mentioned the matter of prison priests. What is happening in this case today is worrying me a little — concerned on behalf of prison services and on behalf of the prisoners. So far, it has been decreed that there should be a priest at each institution. The Ministry has not proposed a similar provision, but proposes a new paragraph which reads: ‘Criminal services shall provide prisoners with the opportunity to exercise their religion and outlook on life’, cf. the proposal for a new Section 23. According to the Department, prison performances have been transferred to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this change could weaken the position of prison priests. Prison services are part of the staff and make an important contribution to the prison population. It is not the case that the ordinary parish office can simply step into the functions of prison services. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the position of prison priests should continue to be regulated, and that it should make proposals, which I am referring to in this regard. The Christian People's Party can see no law other than the prison law that will be the right one for this law home. For the control of persons and objects, the Christian People's Party supports the feasibility of conducting investigations of prisoners, rooms and assets using technical equipment or dogs. We also agree that everyone who arrives in prison should be able to be searched. This is important for preventive reasons. I will come back in a three-minute post later to complete the completion of my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e217	It's noted. The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e222	There has been a consensus in the Committee on a number of things, on which the rapporteur was concerned. In some areas, the demands of the prisoner are tightened and the response to fractures is intensified. But if we're going to get some of the good things that we saw in both the criminal health report and in this bill, it requires something more than agreeing on some law paragraphs. I understand that Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations have been anxious about the difference between the political ambitions and the ability to put them into practice. There is a need for money, personnel recruitment, organisation — which has been partly started through regionalisation — and there is a need for a sufficient number of places to make good words and intentions a reality. That's why it's not only important to agree on the paragraphs, but it's actually very important this year to measure the results of what we say and do, against the reality that exists around Prison Norway. This means that one of the things the Committee unanimously agreed to after the consultation round was that we will already have a full review of the situation with regard to the settlement queues in the revised national budget. We have been told that some prison departments are in danger of being closed – that there is too little money to operate in the second half of the year. Then, the revised national budget coming around May 10th, is the first opportunity to fill up with money, so that what we want of good intentions, can also become some of it in practice. There is agreement to have such a review in the revised national budget. The second thing that has been agreed on is to get a review in the government budget of some things that are also mentioned in the setting, some things that point a little further forward than the very acute for the second half of the year. Clearly, there are prisoners with very special needs. There may be particularly dangerous prisoners, or people who are ill, who are struggling with mental problems and who are so-called resource inmates. Two-and-a-half years have passed since the criminal service report came, but we have still not been given any more places for those with special requirements regarding the high level of safety, or for those with special requirements for the resource department. This is what we are asking for progress in, and we are asking for feedback specifically in October, in the state budget, on what is happening. Have we got these places, or are they on the stairs around each state? In some areas, there are clear political differences in the Committee. This applies, for example: whether one can be directly placed on so-called open premises. In the past, people who had long sentences, judges in two years, for example, could not be put directly on open ground. The majority are in favour of liberalisation which is strongly opposed to the Right. We all know that the average punishment for a rape is 1.9 years, and it is not in line with my view or with the general view that the rape sentence can be directly applied to open settlement. The majority rightly argues that an assessment should be made on a case-by-case basis and that no action should be taken contrary to the general legal position. But the majority here opens the door to the possibility that the rapists and those convicted of serious moral crimes may be entitled to open atoning. I don't think that's right. Another issue that we have been concerned with is the rules for transferring to transitional prisons. Here, the Right Party and the Advance Party have said that it is sufficient to assess transfer to transitional prisons. There should not be an absolute rule to consider transferring to transitional prisons. The reason is that a transitional prison almost cannot be called a prison at all. I think it was the Prison and Free Care Association who said that in that case there is a prison without employees. And is that a prison? The point is that when a court has judged someone to be in for a serious crime, it is not the same thing as letting them live for themselves in a cosy house. It has to be a difference. Priority shall be given to closed-compartment shelters as the starting point for those to be zoned, and qualified improvements shall be provided to ensure a gradual transfer to lighter shelters. Then a new section 16 has been proposed, which gives access to actually lifting the prison sentence and saying that you can get a zone outside prison. I think it becomes relatively pointless when a unanimous judiciary repeatedly sends a call to the court to tighten up the criminal investigation and tighten up the prison sentences, that is. calls for a longer period of time in prison, and the majority also adopts a paragraph which allows an administrative decision to lift the same prison sentence as requested. Then you give a little bit with one hand and take twice as much with the other. Then I can't possibly see that the result is what you wanted. And I understand very well that both the Riksadvokaten and Norsk Fengsels- and Freiomorgsförbund go against the new § 16. The Right Party and the Advance Party have done the same. Increased access to drug control in prisons has been extremely important. In January 1998, the Right had an interpellation about this in the Stortinget, with proposals that were generally accepted in the hall. Now we get the measures to give us greater access to this drug control. That's good. But what's not as good is removing the possibilities of random checks and other checks in open prisons. So while you want more and more people to go into the open, you reduce the control possibilities, for example. drugs or other things in the same prisons. Therefore, the right hand and the front row are in favour of allowing access to random checks and other controls to continue to apply also to open prisons. We also say that access to leave should not be liberalised. On the contrary, it should go in some direction, rather it should be tightened in. Not least in cases where there is a risk of recurrence and where sexual assault has been committed against children. It's an area where we say that the prerequisite for granting leave must be that there is no risk of recurrence, or that you want to submit to medical treatment. So the traditional theme, parole after 2/3 time. It's a step in the right direction when you remove the automatic sample release after 2/3 time. But still this is going too far. There should be special considerations, special things you've done, that make the prisoner deserved release after 2/3 time. With the majority solution, it's still going to be so that most people get out after 2/3 settlement. This is a way to devalue the punishment of the courts. On the one hand, you ask for the punishments to be tightened, while on the other hand, most people leave after two thirds of the settlement. That's not going to be right. That's why the right-hand side goes against the paragraph that the majority goes in favour of. We want a more stringent criterion for parole after 2/3 time. We take a positive view of the increased use of community services, not least as an alternative to conditional judges, who were previously judges more or less inconsequential to the individual. But social sanctions must not be used for crime of violence and morality. It must apply to minor offenses and, in particular, to first-time convictions. This has given us clear insights, including: from the Oslo Police Chamber, where they say, "When a person has received community punishment, no. 1st time No 2nd and second times no. 3, and then we get them back, there's no reason to continue judging social punishment. That's a point of view I share. It should be reserved for first-time criminals and not for very serious crimes. Violation of the conditions of community punishment must be responded to in a clear and swift manner. It is quite right that the case-rapporteur pointed out that the follow-up of the reaction to the breach has not been good. The fact that everyone agrees to a tightening up here is positive. But the Right Party and the Advance Party go further: in cases where there is a qualified breach, i.e. a break, which is not just a two-minute delay, is to be entered for a re-entry test. The weakness that has arisen in the system needs to be more pronounced. With these words, I would like to raise the proposals from the Right and also the proposals on which the Right and the Advance Party are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e263	The representative of Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e268	I am fully aware that I can today be accused of being a meeting plague. I'm actually so conscious that I might be able to tell the president that I'm aware of the moments of action. I'm going to ask the same questions to all the parties. Therefore, I also ask the Right question: Does the Right believe that prison services will be protected for the future by removing the legal basis for these positions? If you go in the future to eliminate prison performances in relation to what you have today, will the Right oppose it? Would you like to support proposals to set up new posts? What's the Right Position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e275	I don't know if I have such a great deal on priests, but I use them sometimes. I also use doctors, psychologists -- I haven't used it yet, but I'm sure I'll use it -- chiropractor, physiotherapist and some others. And I think that if I was put in prison, it would be important for me to have access to a good doctor, maybe a good priest, a good chiropractor, maybe a good teacher. The most important thing for the prisoner must be to claim the same good services as those outside prison. So I ask, is it that a prison doctor would be better than the general health service outside prison? Is it true that a prison priest would be better than a good priest outside prison? As an inmate, I actually think that I would prefer to have the opportunity to meet more than one particular person. In most parish offices, there is usually more than one priest. I believe that prisoners do not differ so much from all other users, and that the most important thing for them is to access the service they are asking for. Who is the employer, and where they sit daily, I think is less important. If the representative Marthinsen, who is a priest, and I can agree that the most important thing is that those who want an offer get it, then I don't think it's so important here and now to land on whether or not they're going to be employed in prison or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e284	There is a great deal in the contribution made by the Chairman of the Committee that there might be reason to respond. But one of the things that I reacted most to was what she said was right, and that was in several of her claims, that is, that it is a deevaluation of the court's measurement when criminal custody actually determines the content of the settlement. That's the task of criminal law! That's why we have a plan for what's going to happen after the judge has turned the club on the table and passed the sentence and the punishment. To be transferred to a temporary residence after having served part of the sentence, to have a probationary period when it is right to have a progression in the compensation, the exceptional use of Section 16 when at least half of the compensation is completed, is not to stop the zone. It's about continuing the atonement with a different content and in other forms. Of course, there is something that the court knows very well that happens, and that it takes into account when measuring the penalty. First we get it convicted into the system, and then we look at what's right to expose him to in terms of the type of pardon and the content of the pardon, so that he can get back on his feet. I would believe that the High Representative also believes that it is essential that when you are released, we have, as far as we have the opportunity, given you the prerequisites for continuing a life without crime. Because if the point is just that he is in jail for as long as possible without any relevant content, then we are equally far, because then he will come back again. Unfortunately, we have seen that trend too many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e293	To take the last first: Of course, the Right is concerned that one who has been sitting in for atone comes out again as a better person. That's why we're involved in so much of what's in this proposition, relating to the demands for education, the demands for adequate aeration, the demands for life-seekers and the demands for gymnastics – a number of demands that are now actually passed on to the prisoner, because the prisoner is to be given an overall offer that takes care of human dignity. The fact that we are also in favour of a ‘lock system’ in the fence, where one begins in a closed fence, then goes to open shelter and then to transition prisons, goes on the same thing. It is an opportunity for individuals to behave properly, by showing the will and ability to learn to improve, so that they can get better and better conditions inside prison. We fully support that. What I think is a deevaluation of the jurisdictional responsibility, is if we have it so that most people get out after 2/3 time. The courts judge one more prison for three years, and then the police say it's equal to two years. That assessment I think the courts should take, and then I think there should be something special to actually release after two years. And no one can deny that saying that three years is going to be two years at least is a decrease in the effect of that punishment. So to the other point that goes on section 16, where you now have the opportunity to let people out after half of the atonement. For the most part, making a living in one's own home or in a permanent home is not the same as making a living in prison. I feel relatively confident that when both the lawyer and the associate go against this paragraph, as the right does, it is precisely with the reason that I have given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e304	It surprises me that the chairman of the committee is in favour of a proposal without grasping its scope. It's a little bit surprising. It is rare for the chairman of the committee to do so. But since she sometimes needs to consult a doctor, a priest, she expects that it is the same for the person who is in prison, and I will not protest about it. I think it might be that way. But I actually think there may be some difference between the committee's chairman and an inmate and the needs that apply, and not least the needs of the one to guide. Whoever himself has been in the pastoral service, which I myself have, knows something about the situation of work-related priests and other community leaders around Norway are in, and then to suggest that you can only turn to the parish priest, he settles the matter, and then you get access to a larger selection of spiritual counselors, is a little too simple. I'm surprised at the Committee's insidious attitude to such an important issue, and I'm so harshly worded because I expect the committee's chairman to take a little bit back to mark what in the world is Right thinking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e311	I think almost I have to say thank you for your trust because the representative Marthinsen thought it could be a difference between me and an inmate. I would also like to say that there may be many different types of prisoners, just as there are many different types of people both here in the Grand Duchy and in the Committee. My whole point with the first reply to the representative Marthinsen was to say that we have to start with the needs of the users. And that's what I was trying to do. Because the needs of the users may be different, and because I tried to get into a situation that uses, I won't do what the representative Marthinsen is trying to get me to do, namely conclude that the only good solution is to continue the prison performance scheme. I don't want to stretch to say that, because I'm just not sure if that's right. I'm not sure that's the opposite that's right, either, but I just want to keep the possibility open that here there might be different solutions that can be good, not just the system we have today. So, apart from that, I'm not going to conclude here today that it should be somehow, because I don't think that's natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e318	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e321	For the last ten years, Norwegian prison policy has been characterised by the prisoner’s association, KROM. The argument that the intention of punishment is release and repatriation to society has led to the removal of most of the criminal element during the settlement of penalties that are initially unreasonably short. A criminal reaction cannot be preventative unless it feels like a punishment. Returning to society and training to associate with other people outside prison walls should only start at the end of the reconciliation period or after the end of the settlement. The combination of the fact that a criminal of his own experience has perceived that it is actually something unpleasant to sit in a prison and good control and follow-up after the sentence is pronounced is, in the view of the Progress Party, the way to go. The KROM wave should be replaced by a firm, clear and borderline prison policy if we are to achieve greater security for legal citizens. The proposals adopted today by the Storting are drawing in both directions, both in the direction of strengthening the KROM wave and in the direction of halting liberalisation. Perhaps the most positive thing is that more content is given to the community service, which should also be used as an alternative to conditional judges. Equally, social services are too weak to be limited to a few hours a day and should not be used as an alternative to unconditional prison sentences. It is worrying that access to out-of-prison zones is opened, that the furniture housing system is maintained as an alternative to settlement in prison, and that persons who receive such severe punishments — well to note on a Norwegian scale, for severe punishments it is really not — that up to two years can start the settlement in low-security prisons. It is worth noting that the Advocate General believes that opening up new forms of reconciliation in freedom is a constant feature of the new law and that several hearing bodies are sceptical about the execution of sentences outside prison. Although the case rapporteur has done an excellent job with good observations, the Riksadvokat's conclusion supports the claim that this reform, in sum, is worse. The Progress Party has submitted proposals several times in the past for criminal offences to be made to escape from prison. It is therefore, of course, positive that this is now being adopted. The system of paroles should be completely removed. I can't see any reasonable reason why a person should escape his punishment after soning 2/3 just because he behaves nicely. It must be obvious that a prisoner acts with respect for the employees and follows the rules in force in prison. If he doesn't, it must have consequences. Any type of harassment of employees in the form of threats, spitting or shelling should be automatically reported to the police, and the current paragraphs relating to threats, violence and harassment by public officials can be used. It should lead to unconditional prison sentences, which must be imposed after the sentence for which a prisoner is already in prison. So there is a system of additional penalties for unacceptable behaviour rather than lower penalties for normal behaviour. It is up to the courts to determine the criminal response, and therefore the starting point should be that a prisoner is in prison at the time when a court has considered that he should be in prison. That is why the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has once again proposed the complete abolition of the system of probation. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party, which is to be read in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e343	The representative Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e348	As a rule, the Progress Party and the Right tend to follow each other somewhat as shadows in the field of justice policy — one guardian of the other. Therefore, I allow myself to ask the question also to the representative Simonsen: Does the Advancement Party, as the Right obviously does, that by removing the anti-law system for prison performances, the party increases the ability of prisoners to exercise religion and view life?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e353	I think the old seaman's priest is well hung in his own profession. Both as a former member of the Church and Education Committee and as a member of the Justice Committee, I have distributed performances in cabins and weather. It's absolutely impossible if you're going to have no pastors in the back pocket in a budget deal with the Christian People's Party. I think the representative Krohn Devold gave an excellent answer to the same question. I agree with everything she said, and I just want to add that of course it's not the intention either from the Right, I'm convinced – it's probably not right to talk on behalf of the Right, but I'm assuming – or from the Progress Party to weaken the prisoners' ability to get what they need in terms of pastoral services – or imam services for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e360	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e363	This approach significantly tightens the rules on prison sentences. It is proposed, inter alia: prison departments with a particularly high level of security and a number of new and more stringent control provisions in these departments. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is the most necessary change in the light of the very serious developments we have seen in Norwegian prisons in recent years. While the new Penal Code regulates the use of coercive measures by public authorities against citizens, the various legislative proposals have been carefully assessed in the interests of human rights. There is reason to be satisfied with the way in which the Ministry has emphasised human rights in the design of the rules. In our view, it is right and necessary to distinguish between high-level departments and low-level departments. Such a differentiated settlement also makes it more possible to help people return to a normal life. In this context, I would like to stress that now the law is also being passed on to what has been practice, with a gradual return to society through reconciliation under increasingly free conditions and with greater demands on them as zones. The system of contact officers and individual plans is important in this respect. As regards the treatment of the individual case, I would like to stress that the greatest possible level of non-discrimination is important. This is essential for the trust of the system by prisoners and sentenced persons. The law we are adopting here today provides clear rules for the exercise of discretion at local level and thus reduces the risk of indiscriminate discrimination. It is important that the system of differentiated compensation is secured in terms of security and that people’s general sense of justice is not violated. There is reason to stress that a prerequisite for a transfer to a lower level of security and settlement under more responsibility and more freer forms is that this can only be done when safety concerns are not addressed. Such a clear rule will, on its part, hold prisoners responsible under acquittal and thus actually contribute to the prevention of new crime. This is where the criminal justice system has its big task of reducing and limiting the great relapse into new crime. On the issue of the possibility of criminal justice to assess whether criminal convictions can be directly transferred to lower-security prisons, the Progress Party and the Right, as has been said, disagree with the majority. The centre party considers it appropriate to provide for such an opportunity to settle in prisons with a lower level of security for convicted persons with sentences of up to two years. This shall be an exceptional rule which applies in particular to young offenders where such a form of compensation is essential for the success of rehabilitation. There is reason to stress that lower-level detention is still a high-restricted detention. In the exceptional cases referred to here, it is necessary to consider in concrete terms whether such a reconciliation is more appropriate to bring the convicted person back to society. The same disagreement is linked to the possibility of transfer to settlement in a less restrictive compartment. This possibility shall be secondary to security and to the general sense of law. Criminals who have committed very serious acts must be very restrictive in transferring to such prisons, including for reasons such as: insulted. Similarly, the minority would cut off the possibility of considering out-of-prison housing in exceptional circumstances. In fact, the proposal would narrow down the current rules on parole. In fact, I disagree that it would be contrary to people's general sense of law if, in an exceptional case, such access was granted to a person responsible for child care. It is rather that cutting this possibility altogether could seem unreasonable. I am satisfied with the large consensus that characterizes the setting. The little disagreement that comes to light, I see more as a need for a marker than as a significant disagreement about reality. In the end, although I know that the health status of the representative Marthinsen is excellent, I will save him for having to go up to the pulpit and repeat the question he has asked to other representatives in relation to prison priests. What has been expressed through the answers given by the majority is consistent with the views expressed by the signatory and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e397	I cannot be satisfied with the answer given by the representative Nymo. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 1998-99 and 1999-2000, the Committee expressed its satisfaction at the provision of a strengthening of prison services and at the assumption that the transfer of prison services from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research should not weaken the position and cooperation of prison services in criminal matters and that their function should also be developed in accordance with the content of St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98, i.e. the Criminal Service Notice. I would like to ask the representative Nymo if his position today is consistent with what he agreed to adopt in the two aforementioned settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e406	The representative of Marthinsen and his predecessors in the Justice Committee last time is well acquainted with the views of the Centre Party and my group regarding the very important job done by Norwegian prison priests. What I find very difficult to believe, however, is that the change that the majority is now undergoing will give the prisoners poorer opportunity to receive the services that prison services have given them in the past. What we're doing is we're keeping the possibilities open that there are different solutions that primarily take care of the considerations that Marthinsen has expressed are present and that, as far as we're concerned, also. I can't see that what we've now done changes the possibilities of services in relation to what we were in the budgetary positions that Marthinen referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e413	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e416	For anyone who commits a criminal offence and thus incurs a compensation penalty, it is important to legalise the purpose of the punishment. If they are to be deployed with a view to being brought back to society, the requirements for the reconciliation period must be tightened. Good plans for the future are important in this way. I record that the legislative proposal changes the notion of ‘employment’ to be called ‘activity obligation’. I think it's a better idea and more in line with today's practice. With the meaning of «obligation of activity» I imagine that they should commit themselves to their own situation and thus avoid being passive. In the community of competences in which we live, it is crucial to focus on action to promote skills within the criminal justice system. I am pleased to note that the promise now states that day-to-day training will replace the obligation to work. It must be expedient. In this way, there will be an equality between training and work obligations, which will allow more people to participate in organised training. Although such measures are voluntary, I have reason to believe that many people will choose organised training when they have an obligation to undertake an activity. We are all aware that many of the intruders have a flawed challenge. Near 20 pst. base ball not completed, 80-90 pst. missing an completed forward challenge. It is also known that read and write problems are more common among the residents than among the average in the population. Activities that stimulate challenge are therefore becoming important measures for rehabilitation back to society. In our opinion, it is of great value that sonning gets a positive content, so that it can prevent future crime. Such plans must be based on measures that enable them to use their abilities and capabilities to master their own life situation. It's also about avoiding creating permanent institutional people. The challenge will be put to action. There is a paradox in many ways that a broad political plurality wants such a development, while at the same time laying down itself at an economic level that reduces the provision of training. The size of the population has previously asked for a research-based evaluation of prison education. The evaluation covers three main areas: the system level, the pedagogical structure and the individual level. This is an important work, not least with a view to further developing and enhancing the understanding of the area in an action-oriented perspective. At the system level, this will focus on the objectives and framework factors we have for school and prison, internal and external cooperation and emphasising educational provision in relation to the other services available in prison. In this way, this work is also important in assessing the implementation of penalties. The evaluation shall also show the background, the instructions and the value of the training for the individual in a housing relationship. This project has been started for approx. a year ago and will end in spring 2003. In further work on the establishment of regulations in the department, it would be a good idea to look at the work being administered by the Staten educational office in Hordaland. I expect that this evaluation will provide new knowledge at system level, when it concerns the pedagogical structure and at individual level, so that this can lead to adjustments and changes in training provision and follow-up work for the benefit of individuals, and not least for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e438	A well-functioning criminal case chain is of great importance to people's trust in police and justice. In order for criminal proceedings to be of the necessary quality, all elements in the chain must work well, both in isolation and in interaction with the next paragraph. In order to achieve this, extensive development measures have been carried out for a long time in the area of police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice. The main contribution of criminal justice to the fight against crime is to ensure high quality in the implementation of criminal law. Then we need a clear criminal enforcement policy, a high level of professional ethics and appropriate organisation so that efforts can deliver the best possible result. Then, of course, we also need money, as the chairman of the committee said. So it's not today's theme; today's theme is the law. However, I would like to point out and to the extent also confirm – as I have already done to the Committee at a much earlier stage – that the Government will come back to the issue of paychecks and the framework for criminal care in the revised national budget. I also recall that it has been clearly announced that it is not appropriate to close prisons or prison departments now for economic reasons, but that this will instead be the subject of the revision of the national budget. The 1998 Criminal Service Communication provided the Stortinget with the basis for a wide-ranging discussion of the criminal policy framework and the possibilities and limitations of criminal enforcement. The broad political consensus expressed in relation to the main points of criminal enforcement policy has been a good basis for the legislative proposal under consideration today. There has been and is a cross-political agreement that the implementation of penalties should be based on two main objectives: short-term social protection, including, inter alia: by ensuring that the convicted person executes the sentence as provided for, and thereby protects society from new crime during this period of long-term social protection by contributing to the non-criminalisation of criminal offences after the end of the criminal proceedings, thereby reducing the relapse; The proposal for a new Penal Code covers both prison sentences and community sentences, both in prison and in criminal matters in freedom. Based on the position, I can see today that there is still a broad cross-political consensus on the main features of criminal enforcement policy. For the rule of law, there is a strong consensus on how to respond to crime as far as possible. Of course, it is also essential that everyone can see that implementation is actually in line with policy. Penalties must be swift and clear. Although there is broad agreement on the main principles of criminal implementation, this does not mean that we are moving here in an area free of conflicts and value choices. It is of great importance that we be able to base discussions and disagreements on actual knowledge and knowledge. Research and experience can tell us quite a lot about what works in relation to the two main objectives of social protection in the short and long term. We know that obstacles to escape and various control measures are necessary for the short-term protection of society, and we know how it can be implemented in an appropriate way. It is traditionally good for criminal services in Norway, and we have, among other things, had very low escape rates here in the country. We also know quite a lot about what promotes the return to a crime-free life, and we know how it can be done within a criminal enforcement framework. It's not that nothing works, but it's not that everything works either. Research and evaluation of behavioural instruments shall be an important source of good criminal enforcement policy. We must have a better basis than pure vision and reasonableness. The challenge is that the instruments that promote these two objectives may partly conflict. Therefore, the criminal enforcement challenge will be to find a concrete balance between control and rehabilitation that provides the best overall performance in both areas. That balance sheet cannot be found in general but must be found in the criminal execution regime around the individual. The new Penal Code provides this very possibility. Control and strict reconciliation regimes are provided for where this is necessary to prevent the individual from getting out of the framework and the possibility of professional work with influence, including gradual return to society where individuals show a willingness to take responsibility for their rehabilitation and show that they are gradually qualified to lower levels of control. A keyword for the main profile of the law is therefore that it provides the legal framework for targeted differentiation. I'm particularly concerned with some of the regulatory areas that are in the new law. We've done a completely necessary tightening of the parole rules, so now parole is not something you just get, but something you have to qualify for. And I would like to point out – since probation has been a topic in the debate so far – that it should be remembered that the probation scheme has existed in Norway for over a hundred years. The claim made by some that this is a desulphurisation of the court's determination of punishment is then difficult to follow, because it is more than a hundred years since a practice was started in which probation was given after two thirds of the time. But what's important in the new law is that one continues to be based on a hundred-year-old practice, but that one strongly intensifies that parole is part of the totalization. Probation is part of the total prison sentence and there must be clear conditions and clear responses if one does not meet the conditions or requirements of one in the case of parole. Nor is it the case that there is an automatic release of samples. So this is a narrowing down of a practice that's been there for a hundred years, and I'm having trouble in some way being involved in parole is not implementing the prison sentence as the courts have stated. So this has been an arrangement for a long time, and I guess they also saw a hundred years ago that it was a good reason that you had a progression in the compensation, and that it was a development along the way. Increased access has been granted to various control measures in the institutions. Although control can always be perceived as unpleasant and sometimes offensive, it is absolutely necessary to give priority to the possibility of monitoring the establishment where necessary. This is particularly important in relation to the fight against drugs. There is a need to respond quickly and effectively when someone abuses the opportunities they have given to facilitate their return to society. The trust that gives individuals such opportunities must be balanced with a rapid and consistent response, including: by re-introduction into prison where the assumptions are broken. This applies in the event of playoffs, paroles, expulsions and social penalties. A new social penalty takes up the former social service and the previous conditional judgment on supervisory programmes. Now we have laid the formal basis for a good alternative to prison use. Crime prevention needs to develop the content to make social penalties a credible alternative to combating crime. In particular, I would like to stress that social penalties must be an alternative to conditional sentences for young offenders, so that they get a noticeable response. Therefore, the social penalty is a good alternative to conditional judgment and must be used more extensively in this context. Crime prevention is now properly organised by having a single establishment and by establishing regions. It shall provide good operation, simple administration and wholeness in the use of instruments. Criminal services have also worked a lot to raise the skills of those working in the department, while at the same time they have been given new jobs and have introduced new methods. Now they also get a completely new and modern piece of legislation. It's a very important step towards improving criminal care, for the benefit of society. I'm going to spend the last two minutes on a couple of questions. First, to what was raised by the Chairman of the Committee, that there is a disagreement within the Committee as to the right to impose sentences directly on open cases. I want to stress that it's about this, and there's a disagreement, is whether or not to exclude the possibility of imposing convictions directly on open acquittals. Therefore, it is not a question of the immediate imposition of a criminal conviction on open ground. What we're talking about is whether we need to have a legal provision that prevents us from doing so, for example. one who has been convicted of negligent shooting, or one who has been convicted of not meeting for military service, after a safety assessment may be placed as a propitiatory measure at a lower level of safety. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the rule we propose in the Penal Code, and which the majority support, is still several times more stringent than the general rule both in Sweden and in Denmark. The second thing I wanted to comment on is the question the representative Simonsen raised, about the additional punishment for what he called unacceptable behavior towards prison staff. Yes, of course, violence against prison staff is always to be reported. The National Attorney recently issued a circular insinuating that violence against civil servants in prisons should be treated in the same way and with the same priority as violence against police officers. In most cases, at least if the criminal proceedings go as fast as they should, it will mean an additional penalty, but thus an additional penalty, measured by being convicted of the circumstances in which they are guilty, in the manner in which they are to be judged. It is, of course, essential to respond to unacceptable behaviour towards the staff of prisons and criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e482	I have one main question and two additional questions for the Minister of Justice. My main question is: If you remove a legal basis for positions, don't you make these positions uncertain in the future in view of their eligibility for existence? If you remove the legal home, don't you make the positions less secure? I'm asking from the Council of State's own review where she says that you're now setting up a warrant to do that and to do that, just to make sure that things happen. I guess if you take home, the opposite must be the result, that's that you're doing it insecure. Then the next question is: If you remove the legal home because, as you use it to justify it, you have made a transfer of responsibility to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, and it is therefore natural to remove the legal asylum from the prison law, then the Council of State has discussed with its colleague in the Government that it should enter into another law, such as the law. in the church law or any other appropriate law? Or has it been intended to make this type of job unsafe for the future? I don't believe in the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e489	The last thing I can at least confirm is that there is no goal for the government, nor for a unanimous ovulation, as I see it, to make the service more uncertain for the future in relation to prisons and the prisoners. The background to how we have proposed doing this in the new Penal Code is that we have turned the perspective, we have looked at it from the perspective of the individual prisoner and the individual prisoner's right to religious practice, and insofar as the right to religious practice is also independent of religious background. And so the law house has been shaped in that way and not in the form of a law house about certain positions. We have a lot of jobs in this country around which everyone agrees to be maintained, and on which we are still going to spend money, but where there is no legal support for it. The points where it is important to have a legal basis are, of course, when society is going to intervene with its citizens, not when it comes to offering them an offer. The main restriction on the provision of services in prisons in the future is not a law-enforcement facility; there are issues of allocated budget frameworks from the Stortinge in each year. And as long as the Christian People's Party has the position they've had to now, it's probably – as some others have said – a relatively good basis for believing that there will still be a reasonable allocation of funds to maintain a good performance in prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e496	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e499	First, one back door for this case is that there's a cost behind every law. Thus, the best laws can quickly become little or nothing if you do not follow up what is in the law’s obligations. It's not the theme today, but it might be in its place to say it. So another backtrace: Even the best administrative regimes don't have to act wisely, unless you act wisely, and then I aim that when prisoners go out after being inside, there won't be cooperation between the agencies that keep them inside, the labour market authorities and the social services, unless it's actually added up to it. And in another role of life for some time back, I registered that, as far as the inside of prison institutions was concerned, the school was there with enthusiasm, the social office could sometimes hope to see, and Aetat was gone at once. And it goes without saying that with this kind of poor administrative cooperation, there is a relatively small theoretical possibility of rehabilitation at first. So if you don't get this administrative cooperation, if different departments don't be able to talk about this together, the usual plastic bag walk for a release will just continue and the possibility of repetition will be increased. In the case of those assigned to the service, whether in prisons or in the other institutions under the new law, it is important for them and their work ethic to actually take action in this area. And this is a grip that doesn't cost heads in itself. This is a grip that costs management, this is a grip that means you have to settle with the Norwegian form culture and the Norwegian culture where you sit at each of your tables and you think it's easiest. Then to the law. There is no doubt that the law is tightening up on some points. On the main points, the Left follows what has been proposed, and I will comment on it in six points here. Firstly, in the case of parole, there is no doubt that what is now happening is that there should be a real individual test, and here there are perfectly clear conditions both from the department and from the committee. For my part and for the left, I think that the right sharpens this unnecessarily strongly because it's already in the beginning powerful what's marked from the committee majority. It's not like there's some automatic anymore. Nor is it the case that one comes out if one has sat down in addition to the requirements with which one is well known, then one simply gets seated. I think therefore the majority have marked this in a strict way. But they've done it so that it's still a real individual assessment. The second point I want to highlight is the question of leave. I don't think we should be tightening up the legislation here, but I want to stress what is mentioned in the committee setting, that especially in matters related to sexual abuse against children, you have to be incredibly critical of letting a few leave, especially if there is a recurrence risk. Let me say it this way: here the naivety must benefit the child, if I am allowed to express it in popular Norwegian. That doesn't mean it's impossible to get out, but that means there's going to be a critical review. So a point that's passed fast in the committee setting, but that's important to me. The Data Protection Authority has made a comment in connection with new strict control regimes, including: to combat drugs and drugs, and which I largely agree with. They believe that listening to a telephone with a pastor, psychologist and doctor should not be done without further delay, and until the department notices that it may be necessary to consider it further in the regulation. The left considers this to be such a fundamental question that if the ministry wants to change a practice where, as it says, this is largely not done, it will be a matter for the Storting. It doesn't have to be a big deal, but it's a matter for Stortinget. It's a fundamental question, and fundamental questions are not solved by regulation in Norway. I often think that there are too many fundamental questions that go unregulated. So for control, especially control to avoid drug smuggling. I agree with the minority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party, as regards the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 29, and the second sentence of the third paragraph. I can't see that in any case you need a medical opinion here. It is clear that what is to be done by control is to be carried out under the supervision of health professionals and carried out by health professionals, and I believe that there is a control regime that should be sufficient. In the setting it is put up for community service, and I will briefly say the following: I hope that no community service is used in connection with violent and moral crimes, and I will agree with the Right in relation to the second paragraph of Section 58 on the consequence of breaking the community service. And finally, I realize that everyone wants to be a priest in prison, but to be with the center brother Marthinsen, I'm going to vote for his proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e520	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e523	I would like to stress that in terms of this issue of drugs in prison, we are at the forefront of what we have said in the position. I would also like to stress that there is not only control, but also help for the prisoners to get rid of a drug problem, which is a challenge for the criminal community – perhaps in cooperation with other institutions. A unanimous committee believes that there should be an alcohol ban on leave, and that is what we believe in the Christian People's Party is right. We all know that alcohol is an important factor in many criminal acts. If, for example, the detainees: conduct itself in such a way that dangerous situations arise, the staff of prisons must be able to respond to such actions. The Committee has therefore considered it important that prisons be given the opportunity to use different types of coercive measures. The degree of use of power and the type of coercive agents must not be more stringent than is necessary. The attention given to the use of coercive substances and their attitudes must be a theme both during education and in day-to-day operations. Release of samples shall take place only after an individual assessment, and we will stress that no one has the right or the right to early release. Here, too, the safety considerations shall prevail. There are many considerations that can prevent parole, including: doubts whether new offences and violations of the general sense of law will be committed. In the implementation of penalties, there must be more and more considerations to be taken into account. Today we have talked a lot about the rehabilitation of prisoners and how we can help them back to society again. On the other hand, we also need to remember that society is going to execute the penalty on behalf of one or more victims. The victim must also be taken into account when it comes to how we execute the sentence. If the victim is not properly cared for, society will not have fulfilled its task.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e534	This debate has shown the broad consensus underlying the Stortinget. Now, when we adopt a completely new law on how to execute the punishment, which replaces an old incomplete law from the 1950s and enters a non-regulated area, then most of the lines are based on what kind of organisational employment the prison priest should have. I see this as a good sign that there is a great deal of consensus in political Norway about how the criminal execution is to be done. But in the debate, there are some things that can leave a wrong impression. That's why I just want to clarify a couple of things. One is the control of drug entry into prison with a lower level of safety. It was said that after the majority vote, you can no longer take samples there. But that's not right. You have to have full control when you find reason to do it. And I can reassure the minority that if the employees at a lower safety level find reason to start taking samples, they can do that. Otherwise, we also see that prisons with low levels of drug use are often not those with the highest control regime, but those with a close and close relationship between prisoners and employees. And so this that the Council of State also had in mind, with direct insertion on open ground. Still, the clear rule is that this applies to a limit of up to two years of unconditional imprisonment, but then we open up the possibility of exceptionally assessing it even when it comes to a sentence of more than two years. And the example of the rapist, I respectfully want to say that was completely sought. Of course, it's not about the kind of criminals. I can't imagine in which cases it wouldn't be contrary to the general sense of justice to put a rapist directly on open ground. It's about, for example, on a first-time convicted young man who needs a very special offer that is absolutely necessary for his rehabilitation and where that offer can only be made under a type of open pardon. So until this happens, when the court has done a poll, you have to follow it. Yes, of course. And that's why we're not in favour of direct entry into transitional housing, but into a prison. One who has been convicted must, of course, pay the penalty in full according to what the court has said; that is the form of the compensation and the content of the compensation to be considered within the framework of criminal law. I'm glad that the whole committee is in favour of the main principles here. So now the tool is given from a dwindling justice system. Fortunately, it has already been put into practice, and the challenge now for both civil servants and politicians is to build the tool in practice and maintain it through the follow-up and the necessary annual appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e555	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e561	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Kristin Krohn Devold, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, proposal No. 4, from Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 5 and 6, by Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 7 and 8, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 9, by Ane Sofie Tmärås, on behalf of the Judicial Committee The President takes first of all proposal No. 3 by the Right and the Party of Presidents, and proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3, from the Right and Advance Party, says: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote changes in the rules which ensure that qualified violations of the conditions of social penalties, which in general result in a transfer to compensation, are carried out.’;» Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the social penalty be imposed only as an additional penalty by a conditional judge.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e699	Point (f) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 9 from the Justice Committee. This proposal introduces an addendum to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 7 of the Criminal Enforcement Act shall be replaced by the following: The decision to bring proceedings before the Court under the second paragraph of Section 44 or the second paragraph of Section 58 shall not be subject to appeal. The same applies to the decision on imprisonment under Section 11.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e766	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Right to the first paragraph, point (c). The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Penal Code, the following provisions are replaced by the following:Article 10, first paragraph, point (c):(c) of transitional prison’. In addition, the Progress Party has notified that it is heading towards the letters (c) and (e), while the Right Party and the Progress Party are heading towards point (d).
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e822	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they are moving towards the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e888	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they are moving towards the fourth paragraph. It goes over this term first, and then over the other terms of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e916	The first sentence of the third subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «§15, third paragraph, first sentence: when specific reasons justify it, inmates may be transferred from high or lower level of security prisons to transitional prisons when part of the sentence has been executed.» The Right Party and the Advance Party have notified that they are moving towards the third sentence of the second paragraph, while the Progress Party is moving towards the third paragraph. The President has understood that the Right will also vote against this? – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1028	Here the Progress Party has warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1039	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from Christian People's Party, to Section 23, new second sentence. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Penal Code, Section 23 shall be replaced by the following:In each institution, it shall act as a priest.» The left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1083	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1144	The Right Party, the Party of Progress, the Party of Centres and the Left have notified that they are moving towards the second sentence of the second paragraph and the second sentence of the third paragraph. It shall be weighed first above that sentence and then above the other paragraphs and sentences of that paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1212	To the second paragraph of the referenced paragraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Penal Code, the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:Section 30, second paragraph:Criminal services shall check postal services to and from prisoners in the department with a particularly high level of security prior to delivery or dispatch. Posting to and from prisoners shall also be checked, but control may be avoided if safety reasons do not contradict it.§ 31, second paragraph: Criminal services shall check visits to the department with a particularly high level of security. Visits to prison are also to be controlled, but control is to be avoided if safety reasons do not speak against it. § 32, second paragraph:Criminal services are to monitor telephone calls to and from prisoners in the department with a particularly high level of security. Telephone calls to and from prisoners shall also be checked, but control shall be avoided if safety reasons do not contradict them.’;» Alternatively, between the suspension of the second paragraph of Section 30, the second paragraph of Section 31 and the second paragraph of Section 32 and the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1417	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they are moving towards the third paragraph. It goes over this term first and then over the other terms of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1441	For the first sentence there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Penal Code, the first sentence of Section 41 shall be replaced by the following:In due time, criminal services shall prepare and contribute to facilitating release.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1484	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «§42, first sentence of the first paragraph: if there are particular reasons for this, criminal services may release convictions on trial if they have carried out two thirds of the sentence and at least 60 days, including possible detention.» The progressing party has announced that they are going against the whole paragraph, with the exception of the seventh paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1570	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1738	Before we proceed to the vote, the President will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tömrås.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1741	I asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, because this is not really a matter of disagreement in the committee. This is whether we should use the word «breed» or «can» in the second paragraph of Section 58. The content is really just legal points that it's not worth mooting over. But since the Right Party and the Advance Party are so rigid and maintain their proposal, the rest of the committee has said that then we support it, and I would recommend the representatives to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1746	Mr Odelstingen has then heard the explanation of vote given by the rapporteur. Paragraph 58, second paragraph, therefore, contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 58, second paragraph: If, after the criminal court has held an intrusion or established conditions after the first subparagraph, the judgment again infringes the requirements or conditions laid down in points (a) to (d) of the first subparagraph, the regional level should bring the case before the courts with a request for the subsidiary prison sentence to be fully or partially enforced in accordance with the first and third subparagraphs of Section 28(b) of the Criminal Code.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1857	Paragraph 28a, first subparagraph, contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 6, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «In the General Civil Confession 22 May 1902 No. 10 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 28a is replaced by the following:Society sentences may be imposed for offences which may result in a sentence of imprisonment of up to 2 years if the offender agrees and the purpose of the sentence is not contrary to a response to freedom. Social penalties shall not be used for repetition. The increase in the maximum penalty in the event of a clash of crimes is not considered. Social penalties may be imposed only if the person in question is resident in Norway.’ The progressing party has announced that they are moving towards the whole paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e1932	The first sentence of the second subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the General Civil Confession 22 May 1902 No. 10 shall be amended as follows:Article 28(b) first sentence shall be replaced by the following:If the judgment has breached the requirement that a new criminal offence should not be committed during the period of implementation, the right of inquiry should, at the request of the prosecution, provide for the full or partial enforcement of the subsidiary prison sentence.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e2153	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04-lower.ana.ud658e2162	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
