ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e26	In this debate that we now have, we must not forget that Norway is one of the countries in the world where the differences between people are the least. We're going to be proud of this, but we have to keep building up society so that we get to an even better distribution and everyone can get a good quality of life. We wouldn't have been there today, if that was what the representative Karin Andersen said, that we can stand that children are poor. Of course, everyone takes this seriously and works to correct all the sides of this. I don't think anyone will have it sitting on them that they don't take such social problems seriously. I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that lower taxes on all and smaller incomes to the Community should give an even better distribution. This is a theory that I have little faith in. Should the community have something to distribute, those who have the most must contribute most to the community. That's what distribution is, and that's this fact that makes us today, after all, almost everything is best in the class when it comes to distribution. It's only through a strong community that we have something to distribute to those who need such help as we, among other things. I'm talking about today. This is the starting point of this Workers' Party when we want to strengthen the housing grant in the House Bank, improve the housing support system, increase the effort for the homeless, build more rental homes and offer reasonable housing costs, better education and employment services, etc. We need to see the whole, and we need to look at the income and expenditure sides when discussing distribution policy. Only then can we reach everyone with the measures that give everyone a good standard of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e33	When I asked for the floor, it was because the rapporteur started by saying that everyone is concerned about the situation of poor families with children, and that it needs to be improved – I realized that it was a message from him. It may well be that everyone in given situations when it is being discussed, as discussed here in the Chamber today, is saying that there are questions you are and should be concerned about. But the way to measure the extent to which it is concerned must be through the specific policy. I sense from the argument in the second article of the Arnesen that you're moving in the right direction, in the direction that fewer falls outside, and that the differences are getting smaller. But not least, the treatment of the Equalizer message and what it says showed that this is not the case. From the 1980s, differences between poor and rich have increased in Norway. We see how new groups have fallen outside in recent years. The working party tries to remove the attention from its own batch and from the Right Party and the Advance Party – it is justified to focus attention on these two batches – but above all, the Labour Party should go on its own. If you are concerned about these issues, you also need to consider, for example, why child welfare should be included in the social welfare calculation basis, so that you can be curtailed when you receive child welfare. Why is it that the Workers' Party, who say they want to do something in relation to kindergartens, cannot already be involved in setting maximum rates for kindergartens, which will have consequences for the poorest? Why is it that the Workers' Party cannot participate in and follow-up decisions on the closure of the hospital, but instead only have to have a kind of long-term winding-up that creates exactly the same uncertainty as before the decision was taken in the context of the treatment of the anti-dithering notification? Why is it that the excesses in relation to health are increasing during the Workers' Party, even if it is said that it is worrying that you have peculiarities? Why is it that the Workers' Party will not be involved in removing the excesses in primary school? Why is it that the Workers' Party will not prevent the obtaining of trades related to camp schools, and help to follow up a development there? That's the kind of question you have to ask yourself if you're going to have credibility because you're occupied with these groups, otherwise it'll be nice talking without content. This is most grotesque when you get a situation in relation to Oslo where the Workers' Party flags that social welfare schemes and minimum rates should help to secure the situation for those who have the most difficulty. Actually, it's to understand that in Oslo you're going to cut the rates further. And then you get reactions, I'll say quite rightly, just from the Right. It is no longer the case that the Workers' Party is very strong when you address that criticism to the Right. Then you should actually go on your own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e40	The Social Minister pointed to the line of work, and that's all right. But we are concerned about it in relation to, among other things, the restriction we had when it came to the transitional benefit for lone dependants. We believe that the restriction that the Workers' Party and the right-hand side did there makes it much more difficult to combine work and social security and education and social security in order to be able to be with children. Among other things, this particularly affects those who stay alone with children in the event of a breakup. I also want to comment on a few other grant schemes for families with children. This applies only to one-off social benefits at birth. There is a social benefit to be paid for the special expenditure on childbirth, and they should not be provided as a basis for calculating social assistance. Then the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have raised a case that concerns younger maladies who have custody. These have special economic problems and being able to have assistance at home to deal fully with their children. We think it's important to look at the child supplement that applies to these, because they're in a special function. I hope that there may be more people who can support this proposal when we come to voting later this evening. So a little bit of housing policy. In the context of the treatment of the defrosting message, a unanimous decision was taken by the Government to end the use of shelter as housing solution for families with children. In the long-term message, the government has gone away from this imposed, saying: ‘The government will work to reduce the use of shelters, in particular among families with children’.» I agree with, inter alia: Representative Karin Andersen, who said earlier today that this is totally unacceptable – she used the expression child abuse in public. I agree that this solution of home accommodation for families with children should end as soon as possible, and we also have a proposal that goes right on that. I hope that the Government can listen to this now, and that there will be a majority for this proposal today – it surprises me that it will not, after the vote in the committee, when we know what a unanimous increase said at the latest in the context of the Equalisation Communication. Then it is clear that we have long-term instruments here: a softer working line, a social housing policy, the renewal of relief and social welfare schemes and, not least, a lower tax on low income groups. It can help eliminate poverty. In line with this, we are also asking for an action plan to improve the living conditions of poor families with children. I had hoped that we could have got a little more in touch with this than it seems in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e58	I noticed that several of the representatives who had spoken before the break spoke of social assistance as if it were a social benefit or a social wage. It's not that. It's a subsidiary benefit, and it's that you first look at what you have, and then you add to it at the top. Social assistance is the help that society provides in a pitfall when you can't support yourself by your own work. If you can't take care of yourself because of illness, we have sick pay, we have rehabilitation, rehabilitation and disability benefits. If it is due to unemployment, we have schemes for the unemployed. If you have become a lone parent, either at birth or through a break in your life, you have transitional benefits and arrangements with it. Despite these different arrangements, some still fall outside. And we know that those who today receive social assistance often have several reasons why they fall out. It has been said that the guidance guidelines presented by the Government are too low. These guidelines are based on a short-term performance. Furthermore, we have focused on the State Institute for Consumer Research's standard budget. We've wanted to improve children's relationships by having our own rates for children who are also age-rated, we've stressed that it's still worth working, and we've focused on what municipalities use for this purpose today. The nature of social assistance is such that it cannot lift anyone out of poverty. It's help in a sniper roof, and we're still going to need something that gives help in a sniper roof, like a last network. For the first time, guidance on social assistance has been provided, and it is pointed out that rates are too low. It is still a reality that many municipalities have something to go after, and some municipalities are over. In the future, the municipality has the last word, because it is the individual municipality that is able to assess this. As you know, poverty is a relative concept. Wages and salaries vary significantly from municipality to municipality. Oslo is not just an expensive town to live in, but most people earn much better in Oslo than, for example, in Oslo. in the area I'm from. A new arrangement like this has to be followed carefully, and we are prepared to do that. And I've been thinking that the first evaluation will come when the guidelines have been in operation for one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e73	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e76	I still cannot understand why the Government has provided these guiding standards when there is no obligation to follow them, nor is it possible to live from them. This is not an upliftment for the poor. There is a large gap between SIFO’s rates and what the Government has provided – NOK 3000 for a four-year-old family. It's possible to solve problems if we want. When the petrol fog lay thick around this house in winter, there were changes in the policy. But when it's the poorest people who need this house's help, there's no answer to that, and it disappoints me. And that tells me that this is not a significant and important problem for those parties that are not involved in immediate action – and that you are willing to tolerate it. To those who have repeatedly pointed out that there is a high standard of living and good income in this country: yes, if you have your head in the freezer and your legs in the oven, the average is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e85	I have listened to the debate, and I must say that we are really discussing a very important matter, but on a completely wrong basis. With a private document no. Eight proposals, as a starting point, make the debate completely fragmentary. Inconsistency and inconsistency are also the debate on ownership in, for example. school. Yes, the Labour Party has raised this debate, which is very important, but it must be taken in full width, and not unilaterally in the context that one sees here. In addition, there is every reason to recall that part of what is related to school prostheses has to do with school legislation, and must be taken into account in this context as well. One therefore has no way if one believes that through a social policy debate one can change school law. So the Council of State took time to set out the action plan on social security, which has been presented, and a number of measures to be taken. In this context, all the parties have the opportunity, in a context, to chisel out a policy that will perhaps improve the economic situation of those who are involved in this matter, namely families with children and children who are poor. It will only be political rhetoric to present it as one through a Document No. Eight proposals will improve the economy of poor children. I think we have to take this debate, let it sink down a little bit and then see if it's not going to be inserted into a slightly different context. We have a lot of good social arrangements that hit a lot of people, but we don't have anyone who hits everybody. This means that, in political Norway, we must be willing to deal with schemes that are more accurate in relation to individual groups, and that is, among other things. set out in the action plan mentioned at the outset. I recommend several people in this house to study and from there put a plan for their policies in this room. The most unfortunate and most incorrect production here, we got from the representative Ballo. He had a presentation of how the Workers' Party has created poverty for large groups of people. I think this was a very blatant review and a very blatant analysis of the problems in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e101	Although I am fully aware that I can be misunderstood in what I am going to say now, I would have said this: the message of dissatisfaction that we had for a long time ago, did not show the two-thirds society that left-wing forces have been screaming for several years. Even in families with children, mostly, there was real need and poverty. And when these poor children are now being used in a debate like this for purely political reasons, I believe it is not for the benefit of the children. I have had a normal income since I started my working life. And I've had children in school, children who have sometimes not been able to participate in excursions that the school has arranged, simply because it was too expensive. I don't think that's bad for kids, unless poverty is so extreme that you get an indirect bullying. Here I think the schools have a very big responsibility when they add up to activities outside school, both camp school activity and other activities – so they don't make an economic setup based on those who are rich in class, but take into account everyone who goes in class, even where the economy can be tight. It's not the schools nice, I think, and it goes out on the kids. And it's going to be branded, everything you're going to use. That's the trend. But I think that children haven't been hurt by learning about the economics of childhood and school, if the economy in the family is such that you can't go beyond your own budget. There's a lot of people who can't do it. The extreme focus on more resources from the state, on more public funds, I'm not so sure if it's for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3450]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e126	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e137	An overall committee shares the concern of the proposers about the dramatic increase in the number of overdose deaths. Over 300 people died of overdose in Norway in 2000. This is the highest number ever, and almost a doubling since 1999. It's no longer an Oslo phenomenon. Overdose deaths also occur in smaller places in Norway. I think it is very important to strengthen prevention and get a much better back-up than what we now have. But such a strengthening must not prevent us from putting more effort into taking care of the users. A unanimous committee states that all those who fulfil the criteria for receiving medically assisted treatment should receive it. I am pleased with this statement, because it is about saving lives and ensuring users the best possible quality of life. The Committee is aware that the Government is drawing up an action plan on drug problems, which is presented in the context of the 2002 budget. The Committee assumes that the emphasis will be on a broad and comprehensive approach to drug users. As the vote shows, the members of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have their own comments and suggestions. I assume that representatives from these parties will provide further information on the comments and the proposal. I expect the Progress Party, which has its own comments, to do the same thing. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Progressive Party, point out that the new pharmacies regulations that came into force on 1 April 2001 exclude a number of general practitioners from continuing to treat heroin users with drugs. The majority believe that this could have serious consequences for many heroin users who are now out of treatment and promote proposals in line with this. In the Committee's recommendation. The same majority believe that injection rooms, also called health rooms, can be an important harm reduction measure for heavy opiate users, but will await the social minister’s inquiry, presented before the summer, before deciding on the matter. As I have pointed out in previous debates, it is unsustainable that users who are motivated for treatment do not receive it. In some places, users are refused treatment until they have been detoxified. Other users are refused treatment because municipalities do not pay for the treatment. We have a formidable problem ahead of us. We get more and more users, and they start using drugs at an increasingly younger age. We know that most of the heavy users end up in line. Many are without shelters, without regular meals, without health care and without care — goods that most of us take as a matter of course. But it's possible to do something about these challenges. Bærum municipality has power over it. They have some fires to do this work. They also have the power to actively involve the doctors and the municipal administration in this important work. Bærum has also developed cooperation with the centre of expertise to which the parishes are attracted, which prevents those in need of help from remaining in line for a long time. Finally, let me recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e165	The proposal by the representatives of Vihovde, Sponheim, Dørum and Kvassheim for a national crisis programme against the ‘overdose epidemic’ has its background in the number of overdose deaths in Norway, namely 327 in 2000. These are tragic deaths and young people. There is every reason to take the problem of overdose seriously, but one must also see things in context, and the measures must be proportionate. It must be allowed to note that in this context the word ‘epidemic’ is not in place, not even in quotation marks. 327 overdose deaths are 327 too many. But there are at least between 1,500 and 2,000 people dying of alcohol damage every year here in the country, and a total of 7,500 tobacco damage. These are also tragic and unnecessary deaths, and of more epidemic proportions. It is also wrong when proposers claim that overdose rates imply that Norwegian drug policy does not work after intention and that one has to shift the focus to harm reduction. This is a little too light and, fortunately, the rapporteurs nuance their views somewhat later in the document, because this number of overdoses obviously does not justify giving up the objective of drug freedom for individuals and for society. Harm reduction shall remain one of several objectives. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for more knowledge about the background to the increase in overdose deaths. These are difficult issues and need to focus more on prevention and awareness-raising efforts to combat the recruitment of new drug users. There is also a need to increase treatment provision, while maintaining the principle of relatively strict criteria for the provision of so-called medically assisted rehabilitation. If the drug-assisted rehabilitation threshold is set too low, young people who could become drug-free may be at risk of remaining in a – albeit legal – dependency. Once you've met people who've been released from a life-threatening drug addiction, you don't doubt that this is clearly the best option. There has also been some mention of the concept of injection rooms, and it may appear that this measure has general implications for the professional community. However, this is not the case. For example, I can refer to the journal "rus & dependency" No. 2 for this year, where it is claimed that literature provides little answers as to whether injection rooms can achieve concrete targets such as fewer overdose deaths or fewer infectious diseases. Some suggest that injection rooms can be an instrument for achieving such objectives, say two researchers related to SIRUS and NOVA respectively. As mentioned above, the Christian People's Party will point out that the main objective is to bet on prevention and treatment. At the same time, these are complex issues, and we are promoting, together with other parties, proposals for the Government to initiate cooperation projects between state, local authorities, businesses and relevant organisations in major cities to ensure more low-threshold health services and day-care centres for the heaviest drug users. We believe that this is a constructive approach in such a problem complex. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposers are asking the Government to provide information on the progress of the crisis programme already in the revised national budget. It is not my case to defend the Government, but in the case of a proposal that has been made on 14 March, it is well much to expect, and it would not have even happened if the Left was in the Government. I address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e186	Are Neess has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e189	Norway has a strict drug policy. Nevertheless, drug use is increasing dangerously, and drug use is perhaps the biggest social challenge facing society. Political decisions and public action are of course important, but if we are to combat drug use in society, a common commitment is needed. Government authorities, municipalities, police, health services, schools and the community must do their job. And not least, there is a responsibility for each of us. Right-wing share the concern expressed by the proposers in their Document No. Eight proposals. However, we do not agree that it is an ‘overdose epidemic’. An epidemic, for whatever reason, has completely different dimensions. However, the trend in drug use and the increase in the number of overdose deaths is discouraging. We have to admit that we have failed neither to reduce the abuse nor to re- recruit to the drug environment. However, although we have failed to achieve everything in the fight against drugs, we must stick to the objective and work towards a society free from abuse. The vision of a drug-free society reflects a positive view, faith and optimism. We want a society where drug use, not just substance abuse, is unacceptable. Nor can a civilised, human society allow human beings to go down without trying to prevent it. Many overdose deaths occur at home, just after release from prison or during leave from treatment institutions. The new challenge is that many drug users who die of overdose have never been in contact with the treatment system. Socially adapted young people often start their drug abuse as an alternative to alcohol use. Prevention and awareness-raising among young people is important in order to avoid recruitment of new users and drug users. Voluntary organisations are an important complement to public efforts, and this resource needs to be exploited much better than it is today. It is a fact that follow-up and after-care of drug users fail, especially immediately after release from prison and in the context of relief measures for drug users who are being treated. The overdose problem is complex and there is no single solution. There is a need for more knowledge and continuous evaluation of treatment provision, and we need to be open to new thinking and to test out new treatment methods. The right continues to believe that there must be strict criteria for the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation. Methadone and Subutex users must be closely followed up to ensure that the treatment has a positive effect. Reports show that in the case of polydrug use and sale of both methadone and Subutex, there is reason to carry out a thorough analysis of the use and benefit of this treatment before extending the criteria. We must stick to the objective that the treatment of drug users is drug-free. There is a need for closer and closer cooperation between the different actors in drug treatment and psychiatry and for strengthening the treatment provision of drug users with dual diagnosis. The right considers that there is a need to set up cooperation projects between countries, municipalities, businesses and non-governmental organisations in large cities in order to ensure more low-threshold health services and day-care centres for the heaviest abusers. I am surprised that the Labour Party and the Progress Party do not support this proposal. The problems raised by proposers have been discussed a number of times and a number of measures have been taken. In this context, the right will point out that, in the context of the 2001 budget, the Social Committee asked the Government to explain the practical implementation of the medicinal-assisted treatment offer. The same applies to injection rooms. We are also aware that the Government is now working on an action plan to address drug problems, focusing on a broad and comprehensive response to drug users. This plan is requested by the Government in the context of the 2002 budget. Subsidies for lowthreshold services in larger cities will be continued and measures for the homeless are under way. Like the rest of the Committee, the Right believes that all those who fulfil the criteria for medically assisted treatment should receive it. It is not acceptable for many today to wait for such treatment for up to two years. There are many examples of drug users who have received such treatment being able to reduce or stop drug use altogether. This is very positive and is the background for the right-wing support for such treatment. The Committee has provided that the decentralisation of the procedure will enter into force on 1 July, that increased appropriations will be made available in the revised budget and that the situation relating to the budget for the following year will be set out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e221	I agree with the proposers that we must stop and try to find measures that can prevent and reduce the high number of overdose deaths we currently have in Norway. In my opinion, action must be taken both in the short term and in the long term, which can also give these people a human dignity in line with other patients in our country. I personally feel quite convinced that if we are to achieve the goal of preventing, treating and giving drug addicts a more dignified life, the responsibility for drug care must be shifted from social legislation to health legislation. I am therefore personally very pleased that the Minister of Health of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000–2001 indicates that this will be assessed first and that the Stortinget will receive feedback. I can readily agree with the comments made by the rapporteurs in the proposal that the guidelines for the medical rehabilitation of drug addicts are too restrictive and bureaucratic, which is obviously a contributing factor in overdose deaths. We must not, if too long, arrive at a system where, like others, these people must be given the right to visit their general practitioner with their problem, and they must be able to demand treatment in line with any other patient treatment. I personally find it pointless to demand at least ten years of heroin abuse and that addicts must be at least 25 years old to receive medical rehabilitation treatment. I'm asking, where else do you do this in health care? On 1 April this year, the new pharmacies regulations entered into force, which has resulted in the withdrawal of several general practitioners who have previously been drug addicts in treatment with different types of drugs. These include a number of heroin users between 700 and 1000, patients who are now more or less out of treatment, with the possible consequences. Some of these I know now travel to Copenhagen once a month and, for example, introduce Subutex for one month of consumption at a time. This is unworthy and must be felt both unfairly and very burdensome, both for the substance-dependent person himself and not least for the close family of the substance-dependent person. In the present position, there is a majority proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party on this issue, where the majority request that as soon as possible a similar offer be made to patients who have received medical assistance from a general practitioner and who have now lost it. In this context, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Social Affairs to the fact that here we have no time to lose. The action plan requested by Stortinget, which is now mentioned in the proposed revised national budget, is, in my opinion, not good enough, but quite good. The previous decision of the Enlargement that a specialist in general medicine could prescribe drugs has now been changed to include the decision-makers in this work. What I don't like in the action plan contained in the revised national budget is that it's still the social service, the social services, which are supposed to be the primary responsibility for the drug addict, and that the doctor is only a co-author in charge of prescribing drugs. This is to turn the matter completely on my head, from my point of view. It is the doctor who is primarily responsible for the patient’s treatment, and then social affairs should have support functions. And I would like to remind you that the municipalities have their own responsibility to provide housing and possibly social rehabilitation, regardless of whether you get methadone or subutex treatment. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's comment in the setting where a call for an investigation into the problem of injection rooms, as the Stortinget asked for as early as 1999. Personally, I am in favour of a test scheme with injection rooms in larger cities, and I hope that it will soon be on the rails and go to Oslo and in several other major cities. I cannot take into account the international conventions that Norway has signed, when these go across saving the lives of young Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e240	Let me first make a reply to the representative Alvheim, who says that he cannot take account of international conventions, but wants to set up injection rooms regardless of what international knowledge and opinion are about. I think it speaks for itself. I think we're going to be careful to legalize these drugs, as one does by spraying rooms in the public room. At least there are many things that have to be tried before that. We are concerned about the development of drug use and the increase in the number of overdose deaths in Norway. It shows that we haven't succeeded until now, and this has to do with a number of things. There is a compound cause here, which makes it wrong to call this an ‘overdose epidemic’. I think we have to look at some realities here that make that, among other things. the follow-up must be better than it has been at present. Many overdose deaths occur immediately after release from prison or during leave from treatment institutions. That's why people who are familiar with the drug, but who use such a large dose after they've been away from it for a while, that it goes wrong. It must improve the follow-up by release from prison and by outsourcing or leave from an institution. It turns out that there are, to a large extent, older long-term drug users who die in the context of an overdose. At the same time, there is also today a new group of addicts, represented by younger, often seemingly socially well-adapted people, who have not been in treatment at all and who suddenly come under the overdose problem. This shows that we have to fight on more fronts, and that we need to have more knowledge. In the selection of the former government, the Nesvåg Committee, several proposals were made for better treatment and aftercare for drug users. I hope that the report of the Nesvåg Committee can be followed up to a greater extent than it has been to date. We still need to focus on prevention and awareness-raising. It seems that those who are most keen for drug treatment have lost sight of the fact that prevention and awareness-raising activities are what most people can keep away from this. It is not just to bet on injection rooms and to distribute methadone and Subutex. We have to be even more careful with that than the majority add up here. Among other things, Ulf Jansen of the Tyrili Foundation and Reidun Hansen of Sollia is now strongly opposed to this and says that it is now too fast, that there is too much time in the medical treatment, that a network and a helper around it, that there is a lack of follow-up, and that the human dignity in the medical treatment is too much absent. It warns against looking at Denmark, while recommending that you look at Sweden, where you have gone a different way, a more careful way. It is clear that we have had a very strong growth in medical treatment in recent times. It may lead to double-use, including the placing on the market of methadone. I think it's more important now that we follow up, and that we use the relatives as a resource, as someone points out in the setting. I also think it is important that we develop better cooperation between the first and second line services, and that the various treatment institutions and non-governmental organisations are strongly involved in this work, not least in prevention and motivation, but also in treatment, and that cooperation with the industry and the labour market be established, so that, among other things. are able to establish — especially in large cities — low-threshold health services and day-care centres for the heaviest drug users. Aside from medical treatment is needed, which should only assist the other. It's worth noting. There's a need for housing, there's a need for work, maybe education to get a job, and there's a need for a social network, not least. We hope that we can manage to create more through close cooperation. It is regrettable that the Labour Party and the Advance Party do not support this proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e255	When 327 people die in one year due to overdose, as shown by the figures for 2000, it is so serious that it is very good that we in the United Kingdom have always paid attention to drug abuse and its consequences. In this way, I will give tribute to the proposers for putting the overdose problems back on the agenda. However, what you quickly see when discussing measures is how disagreeable you can be about the instruments. It also makes it evident how difficult this problem is to have targeted actions. I note that the Committee is united on a note that is really very important, namely: ‘The Committee considers that the key themes of the action plan should be the prevention of drug use and the improvement of treatment and care provision for the most severe drug users.’ Especially when it comes to prevention, it is clear that if you had been willing to do much more to look at the cause of a society developing drug abuse, much could have been done, but most of the time it is forgotten, and we see that from the majority here as well. When the Workers' Party and the Advance Party so strongly and then directly focus on instruments such as methadone, subutex and injection rooms, it has been forgotten that there should actually be quite other measures that were in focus, measures that did not allow society to evolve in a direction where people develop and die of the type of drug abuse. Experience from a number of countries with lowthreshold services, both with the use of Subutex and methadone, is not evocative. They don't give cause for optimism. In England, Switzerland and Denmark, we see that we have tried it out. It's not like you have very low numbers in death. In Denmark, studies of drug users who have died of overdose are very often found in combination with methadone. And what it shows is that methadone acts as a drug in itself, where polydrug use continues. This is a drug, and it's also Subutex. Subutex, used in pain treatment in Norway, is a recognised drug. It is clear that in many ways there is a failure statement that there is so much focus on resource use in maintaining the abuse of these groups, rather than building up alternative options to achieve abstinence. We had a debate here in the hall in 1999 on the move towards a more liberal use of methadone, based on high figures in 1998. Meanwhile, more liberal use of methadone has been achieved, and now we see that the figures for 2000 are higher than ever. I believe that the most important recognition this room can provide is that there is not enough knowledge in common to provide targeted measures to reduce overdose deaths. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the Stortinge listen to the professional communities that hold that knowledge, and proceed slowly in the implementation of new measures. In the 1960s, the introduction of benzodiazepines, as it is called, was given, i.e., agents such as Stesolid, Valium and Vival. Later, Rohypnol was given, as was then also praised by the doctor, because it was given a means of finding peace in anxious patients and giving sleep to sleepless people. In retrospect, the huge problem it has developed is seen, and it must be acknowledged that these drugs have also produced new groups of drug addicts in some form of dry chemical abuse, which have created only greater problems than they have solved. Even though the group we're talking about here is even worse off running, we don't have to run into reinforced problems, where in a few years we just have to admit that the decision of the Storting reinforced these problems. We need to learn from the experience we've had abroad. Of course, this also applies to injection rooms. To facilitate a legalised use of drugs and injectable drugs and to say that it is important to have access to space to inject these drugs is a strong signal that we have lost this impact. Therefore, I am surprised that someone is making it a matter of urgency with that type of crisis solution, rather than being concerned with the aspects that could reduce the abuse – especially it had to be possible to offer drug-free alternatives and treatment sites with a capacity that was good enough to allow those who wanted to get out of the drug hell to have opportunities, because we do not have that today. Obviously, if we focus on methadone instead, we've lost one of the most important strokes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e275	When the Stortinget previously discussed values for the Norwegian healthcare service, all parties gathered that health policy should be based on respect for human dignity and establish a fair distribution of rights and duties, equivalency and equal access to services. I assume that these values are also fundamental to social policy. For the Left, human beings are equivalent and unique, but not equal. It's a human right to be met with respect in all phases of life, in all situations a meeting. Our heavy drug addicts need to improve quality of life and quality of life. Last year, 327 people died from overdose, and if one compares to other countries, Norway had 70 overdose deaths per year. 1 million inhabitants, Switzerland had 29 and the Netherlands 4. We can't afford to lose our youth. These figures show that we need to focus on different aspects of our drug policy. On the left, we think we need to have more goals for our eyes, and on the left, our goals are: to move for the first time possible to test substances, to reduce the number of drug addicts that are stuck in drug use once they have tried, to the maximum possible dependence on drug users, to the best possible way of life for heavily burdened drug users, and to reduce the number of deaths from substance abuse. In particular, we talk about Stortinget, the Left wants to focus on the last three goals. The situation today is that many young people who die have never been in contact with the auxiliaries. This shows that we are missing an overview of the number of heavy drug users we have. As a result, the auxiliary device is not dimensioned correctly. Many good low-threshold services, Bucollective and public- and volunteer-based institutions have been reduced or reduced. There is a need for increased cooperation and interaction between different public services in order to strengthen care and treatment provision. Everyone must be entitled to their individual rehabilitation plan. Drug abuse is quite compounded. There is a long way to go, and the treatment and rehabilitation that you provide must be long-term. When the number of overdose deaths is high when it applies to those who come out of prison or hospital, there is a lack of follow-up. When one hears stories that people who come from their Salvation Army's shelter come back into prison with the same plastic bag and didn't get a follow-up when they came out, but got straight into the same environment, it says a little about the danger of overdose. There is also a shortage of routines and resources. So I want to say a little bit about methadone. Today, there is no money left to follow up on those who have already received a quote. As several others have pointed out, the Left also believes that the criteria for obtaining a medically assisted treatment are too strict. We think that to achieve a sense of worth and quality of life for drug addicts, the first step on the road could be methadone or Subutex. It provides better health and motivation in the short term, it can give self-confidence, it can give access to work and education, and then the motivation will come. In the long term, the addict may become drug free. What has happened, among other things, In the United States, receiving medicament-assisted treatment in the long term results in drug-free treatment. Freedom of the Russian Federation is in the long run its goal. When it comes to the minority proposal from the Committee, the Left supports it. There are good projects going on, cooperation projects between different public bodies, among others. a resource centre in Bergen – a collaborative project between the Church’s Bymission and the Bergen Clinics – which is able to provide a good supply to heavy drug addicts in Bergen. When it comes to spray rooms, I think I'll share my views with John I. Alvheim. Left thinks that this can be part of a whole range of offers. It may be harm-reducing, and it may contribute to fewer overdose deaths, but the most important is anxiety and quality of life. The government has now invested some funds in the revised budget. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have increased this pot by 45 million. kr. In addition, Left wants 20 million. for housing measures. In this debate, everyone is talking about the need for immediate action. My challenge is that here we have the opportunity – if one supports these parties’ proposals – to give our heavy drug addicts an increase in quality of life and increase their worth quite immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e307	Representatives address a particularly important issue. The dramatic increase in the number of overdose deaths concerns us all, and I am pleased with the broad commitment to reverse development. The government takes and will continue to take this situation seriously. I would therefore like to use the opportunity to refer to actions that are in progress, or are under planning, and point to some of the challenges we are facing. Let me first say two words about what might be the difficult thing, the enemy we're actually facing, who is cynically selling these drugs to our young people, and who have made sure that we have a spread across the whole country of a significantly cleaner heroin than we've ever seen in this market. In fact, it's also about being a rich society and therefore attractive to these groups. Experience shows that there are no measures that alone can solve a problem as serious as what we are facing. The State Institute for Drug Research has estimated that the number of drug users with injecting drug use has doubled in the 1990s and that there are now between 9 000 and 12 000 people injecting drugs on a regular basis in Norway. We know that there is a high risk of death with such an abuse pattern. I would like to stress that the Government will continue to work to improve qualitatively, more targeted and, not least, more knowledge-based responses to drug users. It is known that the Government is now working on an action plan to address drug problems on the initiative and decision of the Labour Party’s national meeting last autumn. We are committed to a broad and comprehensive effort with a focus on prevention, treatment/care and increased knowledge production and development of competences. The representatives believe that the limitation of harm needs to be put into focus, where consideration for saving lives and ensuring the best possible lives for addicts and a worthwhile life must be the most important thing. Harm reduction has long traditions both in social services and in health services, and is primarily aimed at alleviating the acute health problems caused by the abuse. The emphasis on harm-reduction measures is important, but it does not mean giving way to the more ideal objective, namely to get the most out of the abuse. The Ministry provides grants for lowthreshold health interventions for drug users in a number of municipalities. These measures are very important in this context. The aim is to reach the most congested drug users, and the aim is to reduce the number of drugrelated deaths. Good results of the measures are reported. We're going to sum up our experiences, and we'll make them known to all the municipalities of the country when we have this in place. During these days, the Ministry concludes an investigation into all aspects of the issue of setting up public injection rooms for drug addicts. The aim is to complete this matter before the summer. The Oslo municipality survey shows that most drugrelated deaths take place in private homes and in residential areas. In addition, the transition from prison and treatment institutions, as mentioned here, is a risk situation for overdoses. It's really important to take a closer look at this. In addition, the housing situation of the most disadvantaged is very important for the Government. A key input is the reform of state takeover of the specialist healthcare service. As a result, the Department is now investigating a future model of the drug addict’s intervention apparatus. A proposal from the Nesvåg Group will be submitted to consultation during the autumn of 2001. The Government intends to allow any changes in the organisation to take effect from 1 January 2003. In many cases, medicinal products are important. It's drawn out by many here, and I will come back to that in my line, but this is only one of several important elements in the overall rehabilitation of heavily burdened addicts. If we are to ensure that drug users who need it, a comprehensive and sound rehabilitation system, are to be approved by the regional centres. Proper rehabilitation is not least important to prevent side-abuse and thereby prevent more deaths. On this basis, I would not be able to guarantee that all so-called quota patients receive equivalent treatment through the centres. On the other hand, I will follow up the centres with a view to enabling those qualified for such treatment to do so. As you know, we already have too many people who qualify for this treatment and who are on a waiting list. In this way, I welcome the forthcoming consideration of proposals for a new model in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e330	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e333	It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both to bet on preventive work and to take care of the users, not least the heavy users. The Workers' Party has not forgotten the importance of prevention. I do not remember how many posts I have kept in this room where I point out the importance of investing in preventive work. We are equally committed to treatment to make users drug free, and we need to be much better at post-treatment protection. Similarly, it is very important to provide a carefree accommodation and an offer of work and education for those to be taken care of and to help. Finally, let me mention what has now been pointed out a number of times, that the Government is drawing up an action plan that will focus on a broad and comprehensive effort. The representative of Lutvold said that there was an excessive pace of methadone-assisted treatment and in medical treatment. I find it strange that not the representative of Lutvold and the representative of Ballo are more concerned that so many heavy users are waiting for treatment for several years, users who meet the demands of the Stortinget in June 1997. For many in these queues, the option is unfortunately overdose resulting in death, or taking trips to Denmark to obtain drugs legally. I cannot believe that the requirements for methadone-assisted treatment, medical treatment, etc. have been liberalised. The size said that one must be at least 25 years old, have used the substance for 10 years, etc. But despite the strict rules, we have many in line, and unfortunately the queue is getting longer and longer. It should be a real challenge for us representatives here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e340	I'm not impressed, and I don't feel that it provides greater credibility, although there are doctors standing on this pulpit and are relatively negative in relation to drug-assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts. In any case, reference may also be made to other reports from the international environment that provide completely different fascists with medically assisted treatment than those expressed by Are Næss and Olav Gunnar Ballo. High-speed? – Yes, but it's not high enough to save these people's lives. We actually have a responsibility that these people should also have a decent life, like us, and when we know a way to do this, we do. At least that is my sincere opinion, and that is also the policy of the Progress Party in this area. It is not difficult to understand that some leaders of the so-called ‘substance institutions’ are taking warnings about the activity and increase in drug-assisted rehabilitation. Of course, they are unjustifiedly afraid of their own business, which is no reason to be. We need all the institutions we have in the apparatus for different purposes. But I think the same institutions now should go on the track and receive these people before they're sober, not insisting that one should be put in here, one must be drunk and sober before one comes. What kind of treatment and offer is there to these drug addicts, who have a life that almost cannot be described? So to the representative of Joy, who thought that I took a little too easy on this with international conventions. Yes, that's okay, but I have a responsibility as a big-time representative of my Norwegian citizens to try and give them a life that is worth living. It's my responsibility. This is done in relation to injection rooms in several other European countries without causing any problems. We give out syringes, and we have the spray bus. What is the principle difference between this and letting them put their shots under dignified conditions, where we can also observe somatic suffering in these people? I am pleased that this is being investigated with injection rooms, and I appreciate the social minister's involvement in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e353	I took the floor to give a reply to the committee leader. In fact, I agree with the committee leader on several teams. One is that there needs to be a low threshold for the consumption of drug users who are motivated to have their abuse treated. I agree with Alvheim that it is inappropriate to require abstinence at hospital, as it is today. The consequence is that many people who should have been treated do not get it. There should also be much closer cooperation with hospitals, greater organisation of medical wards for the admission of patients at a stage where they are still in a state of intoxication, and cooperation with different institutions to continue the provision of treatment, but then on the basis of achieving abstinence, stopping drug use. The problem with methadone and Subutex is that only abuse is maintained. And there I see, doctor or not doctor, that the committee leader and also the Workers' Party v/Einar Olav Forest Holt take too little into consideration the experiences that have been made in other countries. It must be thoughtful, then, that among those who die of overdose in Denmark, there is a very high number of people who have methadone in their blood, who continue to abuse heroin and other drugs, and who do so in combination with methadone. In other words, it should not be the case that the experience gained in other countries that have tried the same line should not count for what kind of instruments we are going to implement in Norway. That's what I'm saying. I think there's a sincere commitment from many in this room to try to do something with these problems. I have no reason to doubt that, but the measures taken must be implemented on the basis of a kind of professional understanding of what will have an effect. And what I'm registering is that there are many professional environments in Norway that are now warning about the way you're going on. I think it would be underestimating the professional competence that exists in many institutions that have drug-free measures, to believe that they only warn because they are afraid to lose the clientele over to another type of offer. I honestly believe that just as there is commitment among big business representatives in this case, many of the professionals express a real concern that they have, that you are on a wrong track, because you lose sight of the perspective that you had before, that you should achieve drug freedom. The results from Sweden on the use of methadone show that between 5 and 10 pst. of those on methadone, ends up as drug-free. It's a very low number, and it's clear that if the threshold for entering methadone treatment is so low that you also lose the opportunity to treat a large part of that group towards drug freedom, you've done much worse. So you could have gotten quite a lot out of your drug abuse. Instead, they stay on methadone for the rest of their lives. Shouldn't it be reasonable to warn against that? You have to see the whole perspective. I am surprised that Einar Olav Skogholt and the committee leader also see the dangers that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e363	I want to start where the representative Ballo ended; he talked about looking at Denmark. Yes, we can go in and look at the experiences that Denmark has had. But let's also take a trip to France, and maybe a little trip down to Kristiansand. Then you will see that if you are making a medically assisted treatment plan, you must also have a follow-up. I think it might be the follow-up that has been missing, that is, the follow-up that will allow you to stay free in the long run. For the Left, the goal is finally freedom. I did not get so much into what is going on in the treatment. However, we should not forget that at the treatment institutions we have, very many people have been closed to drug abuse and have become drug-free. Maybe we should have focused more on those that have been closed? I want to encourage the Minister of Social Affairs to go in and look at all these institutions and the low-threshold supply that exists. How can we strengthen this so that those who come in there can be closed by getting out restless? And I'm going to say what both Ballo and Alvheim were into, that the criterion for entering the treatment line is too strict. Then I want to say a little about post-protection. I was thinking that when you get out of prison, you come out with your plastic bag and maybe you don't have a setup or an offer when you get out. Several have been in and talk about the relatives and the use of them. Then I have to say that I think it has been strong in my meeting with relatives to listen to the story of the desperate mother who called the police and asked them to sit down so that her son could be found in the pay queue – she was afraid she would lose him in an overdose. Then there's something about our offer and our way of giving them help that fails. This also applies to all of these thousands of relatives who are out there today, who are very despairing. And as a mother, I have to admit that only the idea of countermeasures is cruel when one knows that there is medical treatment – because there is a treatment device, a care provider – but the threshold for entering is too large, and then sit down with it counterbalanced and look at his kid and know that one can lose him. It must be cruel, and there I thought we had a duty to initiate some measures. We have an obligation to put this at the top of the agenda and to give priority to this first. So I repeat my call from the end of my main post: there are suggestions to increase the measures for our heavy drug addicts, and I hope we can secure multiples for these proposals. I think there's something that everyone in this room is busy about, and the possibility exists during the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e374	Some people here say that it's hard for some people to have more than one thought in their heads at the same time, and it gets to be. But I think we also have it, we're warning something against too high a rate of medical treatment. There's no resemblance between it and criticizing that we have too much speed and too much involvement in drug abuse treatment, because that's where there's too little and too little pace. It's the relationship here, with network construction, housing, work and post-care, that is out of proportion to the current distribution of medicinal products. That's what we're dealing with. We want a network of housing, education and work for our own economy, and at the same time a follow-up on a medical basis. And it's almost insinuating when committee leader John I. Alvheim says that there's a part that warns against this because you're afraid of your own business. In other words, it has to be a part of those who treat other things. I just want to quote a little bit of what Ulf Jansen of the Tyrili Foundation says here: ‘Many of those on methadone have a long life behind them as addicts, and need ABC in how to live a ‘normal’ life. Today, too many people only pass urine samples, drink methadone, and get calls, and that's all. There's too many people who don't get any follow-up. There's a lot of despair...» And that's what we're afraid of. Then there is this with responsibility for Norwegian citizens, as Mr Alvheim spoke about. We all have. I'm not trying to deny myself that responsibility, but it must be nice that you might try to approach this in different ways, and be respected for it. It must be such that it is possible to deal with this permanent drug abuse. This is what is at least the most important to me, and it is not obtained by public injection rooms and simply by betting on methadone and Subutex. A life without addiction is what can give a truly humane life, without this drug hell and the addiction hell that lies here. Then I agree with Alvheim that the requirement to be drug-free before you receive treatment and can be admitted to an institution, we need to look into it, because I think we also need to be able to accept people who need treatment acutely, or who even in a state of difficulty are motivated to get to treatment. So that's what we would like to discuss in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e390	As regards the concern expressed in points. In the committee's recommendation, where the Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that drug addicts under the new pharmacies regulations should not lose their treatment schedule, I can inform the Stortinget that it is on a national basis per. Today, 200 applications have been submitted to continue the implementation of the scheme. 100 of these are in Westfold. As you know, there is also a user association there, and the department is in contact with the user association to look at the consequences they fear, so that we can meet them. Several representatives have noted that the criteria are too strict. The criteria were changed during the harvest, so that the 10-year requirement for the longest period has been waived, and there is also scope for greater use of discretion in the other criteria. It was also noted whether it is the doctor or the social services that are to be managed. In what is being revised, it is my intention that a doctor or a social office should be able to manage the work, depending on the type of problem each patient faces. In some people, social rehabilitation is going to be the heaviest, in others, it's a much more medical question. But it's going to be a cooperation, it's inevitable. It's probably where Norway has the most to impart world knowledge in this field, because we're the only country that has such clear demands that it should be a fundamental social rehabilitation and then a medically assisted scheme. And then I think we too really have the opportunity to both give our drug addicts good treatment and give the world good knowledge. I've, as someone knows, been to the United States to see what we could learn there. And one of the things they saw admiring Norway was that we actually gave a social offer to those who were going to be treated with drugs. As far as doctors are concerned, it has also been said that the usual general practitioners are not in a position to do this. I will not comment on what they have, but at least the Health Authority will conduct a trade conference in this field, and we will have a series of courses that will enable the individual to provide a good treatment to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3450]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e417	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e424	An overall committee recognises that the many laws, regulations and guidelines governing Norwegian health services make it difficult for both users and their relatives to have a full overview so that they can feel informed and secure about health-related issues in terms of rights and services. We also know that patient representatives in several counties are getting in cases related to the municipal health service and the municipal health service law, which they are not going to deal with after today's arrangement. It is also the case that the College of Patients’ Ombudsman has raised the matter that the scheme should also apply to the community health service. It was in the case of the Patient Rights Act that all county councils should have their own patient representative, and that scheme entered into force from 1 January this year. An overall committee agrees with the Minister of Health that the statutory system of patients’ representatives should operate for a time before possible a permanent extension of the scheme, which should also apply to the municipal health service and the first line service. The Committee has also stated that the provision of services in the community health service is highly related to the provision of care and social services legislation at the first line level, and considers it appropriate in this case to see these two together to have a system that also applies at the municipal level in the case of patients’ ombudsmen. In Oslo, the patient ombudsman system is already covering both social and child protection services, and we believe it is right to look into this special scheme in Oslo before possibly going on with this. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Centre Party, believe that the Government should set up an experimental mechanism for such coordination between municipal health law and social service law at the first line level, i.e. in the municipalities, and set up an experimental system in different categories of municipalities, so that one can see how this works. At the same time, one should keep the Oslo scheme under special observation to see how the experience is there, to which I referred earlier. We believe that the Government should draw up a clear mandate for such an ombudsman scheme and that such a pilot scheme is entirely financed by the State. So far the minority, and what we agree on in the committee. So separate our paths. A majority would like to base an assessment of this with a representative of patients at the municipal level on the scheme currently under investigation in the field of care services. And it surprises me that you isolate it for that experiment, because it doesn't provide a test activity and a background of experience for the health sector. I had seen that we could have got a combination of what's going on under the Local Health and Social Services Act at municipal level, to see if this was right, and if it worked properly. Apart from that, it is also important to make different attempts, that some municipalities did a test that only went at municipal level, while other trials were linked to the patient ombudsman system we have today, i.e. a combination for healthcare in terms of both first- and second-line levels. One then had a broader background to assess the initiation of the patient ombudsman scheme also for primary health services. I'm sure the majority here will explain the reasons for proposing what they're doing, but I think it's a little special that we don't get this more closely linked up to healthcare and municipal health care legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e452	The President is a little uncertain as to whether it was intended that Mr. Violent violence would address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e455	I would like to thank you for the reminder and address the proposal to which the Central Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e460	The representative of Violent Violence has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e463	Patient ombudsmen have a very important task in our society. We have many laws, regulations and guidelines in which it can be very difficult to understand and find out. It is important that people have their rights fulfilled without having to spend a lot of time and effort, and so that they also do not spend large sums of money on obtaining legal assistance. I often hear praiseworthy mention of the statutory patient representative scheme that has been in place and has been operating in several counties for quite a long time. Now that we have received a proposal that addresses the question of extending the role of patients’ representatives to cover primary health services, it is natural to consider this. Even in primary health services, there may be cases where complicated legislation makes people unaware of being able to claim what they are entitled to. I think everyone is concerned that the arrangements and rights put in place for our citizens should be used as they are meant, according to their intentions, and then it is important that users know about them and can ask for what they are entitled to. It is difficult enough to cope with illness and disability; therefore, people must not spend much resources getting what they are so clearly entitled to. Knowing that the patient representatives in several counties are bringing in issues related to the community health service, this can clearly indicate that we are facing an unmet need for services. And, as the rapporteur said, an overall committee agrees with the Minister of Health that the legal order of patients in all counties should be able to operate for a time before proceeding with a permanent extension. In this context, it is also important to bear in mind that a number of trial procedures and evaluations are in progress, and there are actually more than those just referred to by the rapporteur in his statement. In 1999, a four-year probationary system was set up with elderly and care services in some municipalities. It is expected that the experiment will provide answers as to whether the Ombudsman scheme can be a speaker to users and guarantee their rights in such contexts as well. Let me also mention that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is financing an experiment with user offices in Oslo with the aim of caring for the individual user in relation to health and social services, social security and work. As a follow-up to St. Meld. No 8 for 1998-99, About the Action Plan for Disability 1998-2001, a 3-year project with user guidance has been established and guidance offices have been established in several places in the country. It provides guidance and advice on, inter alia: social security benefits, facilities, social services, healthcare, patient rights, housing, work, transport, etc. In addition, several municipalities have set up on their own initiative ombudsman schemes to ensure that local government does not misjudge the inhabitants of the municipality on matters relating to the welfare tasks of the municipality — including care and care services. This shows that a lot is happening in this area. It is therefore necessary to see how these schemes work before introducing new schemes. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee, including the proposers, share this view and ask the Government to come up with an appropriate case showing the results of the ongoing trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e484	It is a paradox that the better health and social services we provide to the population, the more help the individual needs to find out in the system. Fresh people may have problems, but even worse for those who are sick and older. It is agreed that a comprehensive regulatory framework will make the health service meeting a difficult subject for the individual patient or client to be briefed on. As of 1 January this year, it is fortunately legal that all county councils should have a system of patient representatives to deal with matters under the second line service – the specialist health service. Many patients have received good help from these patient representatives, especially in complaints about hospital treatment. Patient representatives have experience that patients often address issues related to first-line healthcare. The College of Patients requested that the scheme apply to both levels, as requested by the proposers. Oslo has such a system, and several other attempts are under way. Many suggest that it may be positive to see the entire service offer and the overall legislation at municipal level as a whole. It is important that all attempts are evaluated before looking at whether an extended ombudsmanship scheme can be a good speaker for users and can safeguard their rights. The Christian People's Party will support the setting. In addition, when the Christian People's Party is involved in a proposal for a new test scheme with representatives in a representative number of municipalities, it is because today's scheme applies either to the elderly or is purely care services. We want an experiment that includes everyone regardless of age, and that covers both health and social services. We also want to try out a model where the patient and care services system can be purely municipal. I hope we have a system that leads to ‘Simplify Norway’ and that gives users and their relatives an overview and insight so that they can feel secure in relation to the rights and services they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e501	For patients and relatives, there is an important matter for the proposers. The patient representative system is closely linked to patients’ ability to have their rights fulfilled. It is an important measure to achieve the objective of putting users and their needs at the centre. The caregiver shall ensure that patients have their rights respected and strengthened their right to co-determination and influence over healthcare. In addition, they shall contribute to improving the quality of the different healthcare services. The experience with the Patient Ombudsman scheme is positive. It helps to create better contact between patients and healthcare, and could therefore also help prevent conflicts that can be resolved by better communication without involving formal complaint bodies. The Ombudsman’s role is to be a speaker for patients, who often have difficulties in caring for their own interests. Some patient groups are also inhibited, physically or mentally, and often have a special dependency on the system or persons they want to complain about. Health professionals can become more aware of the needs of patients through such a scheme, and this could lead to better patient treatment. As many people have experienced, the many laws, regulations and guidelines governing both specialist and primary health care make it very difficult for users and relatives to have the necessary overview and insight. However, it is important for them to be able to obtain sufficient information and to feel secure in relation to rights and the provision of treatment. Many also have problems distinguishing between municipal services and those under the specialist health service. The Patient Rights Act stated that in all states there should be a patient representative scheme. This scheme entered into force on 1 January, and it seems reasonable to the majority that this scheme should operate for a time before it is extended to the primary health service. An evaluation of the scheme could provide for the possibility of correcting any weaknesses that may be corrected. The provision of services in municipalities is often linked to other care services provided by the Social Services Act. For this reason, it is most appropriate to see the full range of services and overall legislation at municipal level as a whole if a patient and care provider scheme is to be established at municipal level. In Oslo, the patient ombudsman system already includes social and child protection services. The Oslo system should be further assessed, and not least in the context of the introduction of the permanent scheme from 1 June, all municipalities should be closely monitored to ensure that patients’ interests and rights are safeguarded. As has been pointed out, a four-year probationary system was established in 1999 with senior care agencies in some municipalities, and we have a good hope that the evaluation of this system can show that the Ombudsman regime can be a speaker for users and ensure that their rights are properly respected. There are also some other pilot schemes in place in the case of care services, and unlike the centre lots and SV, the Right, like the rest of the Committee, believes that it is not wise to set up more testing schemes until those in place have been completed and evaluated. To this end, the right supports the proposal to ask the Government to present a separate case showing the results of the ongoing trials on care services and, in this context, to propose, where appropriate, to extend a patient ombudsman scheme to include the primary health service as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e516	In the opinion of the Advance Party, the Patient Ombudsman is an important monitoring and follow-up body in order to guarantee patients’ rights under legislation. Today, patients’ responsibilities are limited to specialist healthcare, and so far, very good experience has been gained with the role of the representatives, which has clearly strengthened the legal certainty of patients in relation to the treatment system. It is clear from various annual reports from the patient representatives that the interaction and cooperation between the specialist health service and the primary health service often involve the working situation of the patient representatives, since it is not always easy to separate these two different administrative bodies from each other in the practical work. The Progress Party has long wanted the responsibilities of patients’ representatives to be extended to cover primary health services, and the Party has therefore promoted the proposal during the treatment of the Patient Rights Act that the responsibilities of patients’ representatives should be extended to the primary health service. The Municipality of Oslo has, as stated earlier, had a joint representative for child protection and social services in addition to the specialist health service. According to Oslo reports, this has produced good results. On 1 June, the permanent medical scheme was put in place. As I see it, there are considerable conflicts between patients and the fixed medical system itself, which I think will necessitate some kind of ombudsman system that can protect patients' rights also in the primary health service. This applies not least to conflicts which may arise when opting for the award of a permanent doctor, but perhaps in particular to the referral practice, where the fixed medical system provides that patients may require only one referral to a specialist in the year of the same illness. In this context, claims from patients may quickly arise without the formal representation of patients to contact with any complaints. The regulatory framework for the fixed medical system is quite complicated, and here, patients’ representatives – if they had been responsible for primary health care – would be of great help to future patients. As far as I have been able to register, there is a significant majority of patients' representatives today who also want to expand their responsibility for primary health care. State ownership and driving responsibility for hospitals will be adopted by the Stortinget in a short time. This hospital reform requires much closer cooperation between the specialist health service and the community health service, which is also strongly emphasised in the emergency communication, which Stortinget also deals with these days. The emergency message provides for closer cooperation between the very primary health service and the specialist health service. Prehospital emergency services are also strongly highlighted in the emergency services, and in this service, primary health services have an important function, particularly in relation to medical care. In that situation, I think it would be quite natural that the responsibilities of the patient representatives should also include the primary healthcare service. This will also be a signal that healthcare is considered as a whole and that the patient, whether in the primary health service or in the specialist healthcare service, has only one complaint body to deal with when problems arise. In my opinion, the supervisory tasks of the primary health service, assigned to the county doctor, are not in any way satisfactory as the scheme is today. I believe that the time has come to expand the responsibilities of patients in the context of state hospitalization is convenient and practical, and in this context I would strongly recommend to the Minister of Health to reconsider considering extending the responsibilities of patients' representatives. Finally, I would like to remind you that we are part of the majority proposal, and hope that the department will return relatively soon with the evaluation of the trial procedures that apply, possibly with proposals to extend the role of patients' representatives. Until the state hospital operation has come on the rails, I believe that patients' representatives should continue to be associated with county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e542	Whether or not to have an ombudsman's order and in what areas, we can definitely discuss it. It has not been said that any area of society should be covered by an agent. Other arrangements may also make sense. Today, we have experience in finding that this can be a sensible approach, both through gender equality agencies, children's representatives and patients' representatives. With regard to the patient representatives, we see that many patients have felt good help in the ombudsman system. In SV, we see it as a strength that we have now said that we should legally have the patient ombudsman system in place in all states as an offer. The distinction between the public health service and the specialist health service seems illogical to be accepted first as a sensible system that can function on patients’ premises. It is at all difficult to understand other reasonable arguments to put it at one level, but not at another, but to gain experience first. It was important for SV when we considered this matter in relation to the original proposal. In order to be able to say something about the scale of the scheme, it can be said, among other things. the number of employees in relation to the provision of such a scheme – it is of course also necessary to gain experience with it. This means that you have to go into an experimental system where you also include municipal health law, and as we see it, because there are so big points of contact, also the social care law, that is, the social service service provision. I also understand that this is the proposal that comes closest to the wishes of the proposers, because it ensures a first step towards ensuring that the patient ombudsman scheme also has to cover primary health services. Therefore, I must say that I am very surprised that the proposers themselves do not support a proposal that so far SV and I can see is much closer to their own intention than the majority proposal that exists. The majority proposal and the committee’s recommendation do not allow any action to be taken in the municipal health service. There, only schemes that have been up to today should be evaluated, not schemes that, in their full range, include both social care and community health law. I did not hear from the chairman of the committee any particular justification for not supporting the minority's proposals. I believe and believe that when the patient representative scheme is implemented as quickly as possible also in the municipalities, it would be useful as soon as possible to gain experience of trials in the municipalities, so as to make the scheme a permanent scheme, if necessary. This would be the natural consequence over time, i.e. that experience should not necessarily lead to non-implementation of the scheme, but, on the contrary, to adjustments based on experience, so as to provide the best possible and most comprehensive system at all levels of healthcare, including in the case of social services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e554	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e557	I'm going to try not to be more accomplices than I have been today, but I want to link some comments to the article from Bendiks H. Arnesen, where he referred to ongoing trials being at the bottom of this patient representative scheme in connection with primary health care. I am also familiar with the user office system. Among other things, I have the job of establishing a user and service office in Hedmark and dares to claim that on the initiative of the undersigned, we received financial support for the pre-project of the previous government. And all the honors of this health minister, who has followed up that for the project and granted money for operating grants to set up a trial scheme. However, such a user and service office also has many other functions, including: in the case of economics – it is e.g. the possibility of dealing with insurance schemes and in-house debt and social and care services, whether in private or public terms. And it's going to be something other than an ombudsman scheme that specifically targets primary health services in the municipal sector. That is why I must agree with Mr Ballo, who is somewhat surprised that there has been no support for the minority proposal, which focuses on a concrete ‘link’ between matters within the areas of the Local Health Service Act and those within the areas of the Social Services Act. There is also a need to test out some municipalities where the scheme covers only the municipal health service, and some where there is a ‘link’ between the community health service and the other line service — that is, what is already covered by the patient ombudsman scheme. I am a little surprised that you cannot follow up on this through such a proposal. And as other representatives have been involved here, this pilot scheme with an elder and care agency will primarily apply to older people. In the minority's proposal, it applies to all ages. Having said that, in the short time I now have left of my post, I would say that we want a voting where we are allowed to vote for our primary proposal. And should it fall – against assumption, after all these recommendations – we will vote in a subsidiary way for the vote, because it is pointless to go against it. But this does not mean that the minority proposed in its proposal is as good a scheme as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e568	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e581	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e588	During the debate, Mr Hagen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Mr Kleppe. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e624	During the debate, Mr Hagen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Mr Kleppe. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e699	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 May 2001: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a continuous assessment and evaluation of regulations so that the overall regulatory framework is constantly up-to-date and meets the real needs for the time-limited validity of regulations and the elimination of unnecessary regulations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e727	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Vidar Kleppe, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Vidar Kleppe, on proposal No. 3, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the representative Vidar Kleppe, is drawn. The representative of Kvassheim has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e741	She made it clear in her reply to the Council of State that she would go a long way towards fulfilling the intentions of what is left's proposal. I therefore ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e746	Proposal No. 3, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left, is then proposed to be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government launch an offensive to improve the practice of public disclosure law in the central government and local government sectors.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e753	‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals in order to establish a Public Prosecutor’s Office and a Public Prosecutor’s Board to supervise and control compliance with the Public Prosecutor’s Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e779	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party It will first be voted on by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e794	«As from 1 July 2001, the Government requests a change in the guidelines for the measurement of social benefits for living so that the amount of child benefit, cash support and lump-sum benefits is not included in the income for the calculation of social assistance.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of mandatory minimum rates of social assistance so that all elements of the SIFO rates are included.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide full compensation to the municipalities for increased expenditure on the changes to the social assistance legislation in force in 2001 and in the coming years, in the State budget for 2002.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a law and regulation that makes primary schools free of charge.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase child welfare from the third child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e822	Proposal No. 3, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the use of residential accommodation for families with children ceases without delay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e837	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e844	The proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left is not accepted by 96 votes to 16. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote an action plan to improve the living conditions of poor families with children.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the income-tested child allowance for pensioners of old age and disability who are dependent on children in the State budget for 2002’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e880	During the debate, Are Næss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take the initiative in cooperation projects between the state, the municipality, the business community and relevant organisations in the major cities in order to ensure more low-threshold health services and day-care centres for the heaviest drug users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e902	The President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against? - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-2.ana.ud1308e929	During the debate, Ola D. Glötvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a pilot scheme with patient and care services in a representative number of municipalities. These trials, as well as the Oslo scheme, must form the basis for a proposal for an extended patient ombudsman scheme which will also cover the community health and social sector. In the light of these trials, the Government asks for a proposal for a permanent healthcare agency scheme.’
