ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e36	The representatives of Anita Apelthun Seele, Inge Myrvoll, Tomas Norvoll, Lars Rise, Annelise Höegh, Einar Steensnæs, Jan Simonsen, Jorunn Ringstad, and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland State: Terje Stenseng For Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn Steinhovden For the South-Trundellag County: Joar T. Brobakk
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e83	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e88	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e93	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e101	The representative Petter Løvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e104	On behalf of the representative Inge Wohnung and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for measures to improve the educational material situation for blind and partially sighted elephants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e110	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e113	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Ivar Østberg, Lodve Solholm, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, I would like to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure the diversity and usability of measures for the unemployed, the disabled and other involuntary unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e118	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e121	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal that a four-year action plan for increased investment in primary school should be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e126	The representative Jørn L. Stang will also make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e129	On behalf of Vidar Kleppe and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a mandatory HIV/AIDS test by anyone applying for a residence permit in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e134	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e155	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Trond Giske The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then begin with the first main question, from the representative Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e171	I have a question for the Prime Minister. More than six months ago, former Prime Minister Odvar Nordli brought up the situation of poor children in Norway, the so-called poor children. There are several tens of thousands of them. Many of them have such poor advice that they cannot participate in school or sports trips, they do not dare tell their parents about birthday parties because they know that their parents cannot afford to buy gifts. The Prime Minister said six months ago that this is something we have to do with. What has the government done about the situation of the poor children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e180	I fully agree that it is very important to do something about the conditions for all poor people in Norway, but especially for poor children. What we've done is more than one thing. Among other things, we have presented an action plan in the long-term plan to combat poverty, and we have presented new guidelines for social assistance rates. Then we got new numbers that show that half of the poor children are immigrants. This may illustrate what is the main problem, namely that poverty is primarily found in those groups that fall slightly outside traditional Norwegian society. This means that all that can be done for the integration of immigrants — getting more immigrants into work and learning them more Norwegian — is one of the important measures to combat child poverty. This is why we have been concerned about and have made proposals to strengthen the requirements of Norwegian education for immigrants in order to achieve more integration. We have continued the arrangements we ourselves initiated in relation to free childcare facilities in urban areas with many immigrants in Oslo. And one of the arguments against cash support, as the evaluation also shows, is that cash support helps to consolidate a situation where immigrant children, especially of Pakistani and Somali origin, go to kindergarten to a small extent. It contributes to a pattern where these don't get into Norwegian society normally, thus confirming that half of the poor children are immigrants. So it's about many measures. It's about getting people to work. It's not least about integrating immigrants, and that's where we're dealing with several measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e187	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. It didn't contain much concrete about what's been done for this important group. The Prime Minister mentioned the norms of social assistance — it was actually the central government that proposed it. The Prime Minister passed that the Workers' Party, under the resistance of the centre, has reduced the transitional benefit down to three years for single mothers. Many of the poor children are found in these families. So he is also trying here to make the cash support a problem. The issue is that the evaluation shows that cash support has been income-absorbing. It goes more to families with low incomes than to families with high incomes. The Prime Minister said nothing about what is also important for these groups, namely increased child welfare, housing support for families with children and, in particular, housing support for young people. What does the Government intend to do with such measures in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e196	There are many different reasons why people are poor in Norway. In general, we suggest that people should be able to live on their own income, and that if they cannot live on their own income, they can live on social security – disability benefit or any other form of social security. Then there's someone that falls completely outside. Half of those who fall completely outside of their children are immigrants. Then we say that a major instrument is everything in integration. Then we also say that there is something the evaluation of the cash support shows, it is precisely that the cash support helps to make it even more difficult to ensure that immigrant children go to kindergarten, learn Norwegian and get integrated. I must be allowed to point that out because half of the poor children are immigrant children. Then there's just integration that's the key. Then we have put forward measures. There are many measures in the long-term plan, I can go through them. These include: on housing measures for the most deprived. We have had the largest increase in start-up loans for those who are the most difficult on the housing market, and a sharp increase in the construction of rentals and student housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e203	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e206	It's almost two years since the central government released the anti-sampling message, a message that the Labour Party initially wouldn't have. What the Labour Party has actually done then is to take some of the measures proposed by the Centre Government. Besides that, it's very little concrete. There are, in fact, very few concrete proposals in the Government's long-term programme. Let me focus on one point that the prime minister doesn't mention, which means a lot to the poorest family, that's the municipal economy. The Prime Minister saw a good addition last year, which was followed up and reinforced by the centre party in Stortinget. Nevertheless, this year the local authorities have more expenditure than income. They cut when it comes to children and young people, and it goes back on to the poorest families.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e213	I fully agree that the local economy is one important factor in the fight against child poverty, and I am pleased that the representative Meltveit Kleppa says that the government provided a good addition. The addition we proposed is actually the largest in very many years, and it gives significantly more money to the municipalities than the central government ever provided. It's not enough, but it's an important step, among other things. to make it possible to bet on kindergarten, school and other things that are important for all children, but especially for poor children. Then we've done other things. We have e.g. reduced tax on low employee income. We've been supported by the center of it, and we're happy about it. It has been adopted and implemented. We have implemented comprehensive social housing measures: several student housing, several rental homes, increased house banking frameworks and a historical increase in what is called start-up loans to particularly disadvantaged people in the housing market. All of these are concrete measures that have already been adopted. Then we've been focusing on labour market measures, because the main problem is the unemployed who don't get into the labour market. And we focus more on integrating immigrants, because half of the poor are immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e221	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e224	Long-term measures are necessary, and are good and good. That's what SV agrees with. But acute need requires urgent action. We know that there are at least over 20,000 children now living in economic poverty. And what we also know is that childhood doesn't come in reprisals. Those who experience this are given a marine image that I hope the Prime Minister and SV agree that we should do everything we can to improve, do everything we can to give them a different opportunity. One of the things that goes right on the poor children's families is that most of them get social assistance either as a whole income or as a part of income. We know that both the Prime Minister and I have had the child benefit paid out heads for crowns, no matter how much we have earned, while those who receive social assistance, according to the Government are now to be deducted for this money. Does the Prime Minister think that this is a fair distribution between us rich and those who have so little that they need social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e231	If it were that poverty was one unique problem, it would have been easy to solve it. The problem is that there are many causes of child poverty. An important reason, then, is the lack of integration of immigrants. Another important reason is drug abuse among parents in other groups. And then it's not always that more cash is the answer. Often, more services, better and cheaper childcare, better follow-up by child protection, better Norwegian education, more integration measures for immigrants, more drug treatment and the development of drug treatment are well as important to combat poverty as increased cash transfers to those who are poor, although in some cases it may also be the right instrument. There's nothing new at all. It is also a perfectly correct principle that when considering a need-tested scheme such as social assistance, account should be taken of all other income you also have, whether it be child welfare, cash support or other types of income. It's a principle we've had for a long time, and a good principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e239	Selected Response City Haugland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e242	The present issue is a very important issue. I react a little to the case information that the Prime Minister came with when he withdraws the cash support, that it makes the immigrants and their families poorer. I wonder if we have read the same evaluation report. The evaluation report shows that cash support has had a minimal impact on immigrant families’ use of kindergarten. They have the tradition of being home with the children. We're talking about children up to the age of three. Is it not important that immigrants too should have their right to be home with their mother and father, and that it is also important that they learn their own native language before they become three years old and should be prepared to enter school? In addition, the actual evaluation report shows that the siblings of small children of immigrant families have not been removed from kindergarten after the introduction of cash support. So the effect of cash support for immigrants can only be that they get more money to route with [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e247	Now there's no more time to walk with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e250	No – but where does the Prime Minister have his information when he answers are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e255	I have read the evaluation report, and in particular the sections on immigrants. The starting point is the following: a new study has been carried out by the Statistical Centre and new figures show that half of the poor children are immigrant children, and that the main problem is integration, lack of Norwegian knowledge, lack of participation in Norwegian society. The second is that the evaluation report shows that immigrant children go to kindergarten to a very small extent — slightly different groups — and that there is a cause for a lack of integration. And so the evaluation report says that this may have been confirmed through the cash support because the cash support makes it very expensive to have children in kindergarten, both because you first have to pay 3000 or 4000 kroner or what it is for the nursery, and in addition you lose the cash support, so that the actual cost may be between 5000 and 6000 kroner for a nursery. This is followed by a pattern where most of the children in the age group concerned are not in kindergarten — for example. among Pakistani children over 90 pst.. It undermines integration policies and contributes to the consolidation of poverty among immigrant children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e260	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e263	I have a question for the Prime Minister about social security. Last year, the Association of Norwegian Pensioners, the LO and the Joint Organisation of Disabilities found that, over the years, the basic amount of population protection was strongly under-regulated and asked for an escalating plan for the basic amount, unspecified. I could imagine asking the Prime Minister if he agrees that when the state now has a very good economy, it may be possible to restore some of this underregulation. Is the government going to be on a stepping-up plan to restore the value of the basic amount, and that an extraordinary increase in this basic amount will be made in the coming social security settlement, so that all pensioners who are now facing the increased electricity prices, increased housing costs and increased expenditure will have a better economy when the government can afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e270	We're about to start the social security system. We are committed to ensuring popular security, and that also means a good regulation of the basic amount, taking into account the income trends of other groups and employees. We're going to take care of that in this social security plan. I think it would be wrong for me now to go into the details of that settlement, when we haven't yet started the settlement process. However, the principles that concern us having a regulation of G that takes account of the development of income for other groups should, of course, also apply to this social security settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e276	Now it is the case that the government has been against proposals, among other things. by the Progress Party to establish that the regulation is to be the same as the wage development for economically active persons. It's been a constant underregulation. So even if the Prime Minister is said to take this into account, there has been underregulation in relation to wage developments, and it is true that pensioners also have to pay their electricity bills with money. It does not help with the same percentage increase for those who initially have lower revenues. If they get almost the same percent, it's going to be smaller in heads and ears. That's why it's time for a raise in the basic amount, so that all pensioners can benefit from it. The Prime Minister has often pointed to the future in terms of the use of the good economy. If it is not the case that the Prime Minister also believes that when there has been a de facto underregulation in relation to wage developments for active workers, the State can now afford to take some of this again, for example. at least restore the base value to what it was in 1990? Can the Prime Minister not agree that the time has now come for retirement to be lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e283	After a few years of failure to reach agreement on the social security settlement between the Government and the pensioners' organizations, my government reached an agreement with the pensioners' organizations on the social security settlement last year. And when the government and pensioners' organizations agree on the social security settlement, it's probably an expression that there has to be a fairly good settlement, from the point of view of pensioners. We are aiming to reach agreement with the pensioners' organisations this year as well. We're not going to add up to any fraction. This means that we have to have a regulation of G, based on the wage trend that has been for other groups, and we have to be sure that we follow it, and that we will, of course, also take account of developments last year. But I think that guessing more now is going to be wrong. We agreed with the pensioners' organizations last year. You recommended the proposal, and I hope, of course, that they will also recommend the proposal that we will negotiate with them in the days to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e290	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e293	My question goes to the Prime Minister. Since I am in the soft corner today, I want to fish for a positive answer. I am quite excited that in a debate last week, the Prime Minister said that he fully agreed with the Right when it came to the top tax issues. I see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs now thinks that saying no to training moms is a quite natural matter, and I want to fish for another answer where the Prime Minister can agree with the Right. The incoming LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla said to Nettavisan a short time ago: ‘In Sweden, the organisation of the worker is a requirement for unemployment benefits. We probably have to think the same way in Norway in the future as well.’ Can the Prime Minister agree with the Right that of course we can't think that way, this kind of thought we have to say no to?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e305	We have no plans to link unemployment to whether you are organized or not. The type of social security rights has always been linked to the employee relationship itself or to previous employee income. I accept – it happens in several cases – that the LO has one position, and that the Workers' Party has another. We also have a discussion, for example. about the hospital reform, about the hospitals, where we're not completely in line. It's nothing new. I think it's healthy that in some cases there are different positions in the LO and in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e310	Of further questions on my agenda, the issue is the concern about Norwegian competitive business. Norway has fallen on the lists of competitiveness, from a fifth place five years ago to a seventeenth place now. Is the Prime Minister in agreement with the Right that it is now time to take action, for example. in fiscal policy that puts our competitive business in a better position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e315	The right always calls wolf in terms of cost growth and price rise. Five years ago, the Right deeply disagreed with the economic policy that was being pursued, and it considered it a threat to the Norwegian competitive industry. Now one obviously believes that that policy was excellent, and one points to how good it was five years ago. At that time, I was in government and was, among other things, responsible for the competitive industry. I never met one kind word from the Right when it was about the policy we then pursued, even though it is now believed that it was obviously the right thing we did then. I'm worried about the competitive industry. There has been a cost increase in Norway in the last three to four years that has been higher than it should be. This is due, inter alia, to: a two-fold reduction of a recommended proposal in wage-setting and an increase in the number of supplements has been made. It has pushed costs up in Norway, and it has created increasing problems for Norwegian competitive industries. We want to help do something about this, partly by having responsible and tight budgets. We've presented that in the past, and we're still going to present that. We have done something on the tax side, both in terms of low pay and in terms of top taxes, and we need to focus more on research and development to strengthen Norwegian competitive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e322	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e325	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Last summer, the Kingdom of Norway found itself in some kind of petrol fumes. The fuel and diesel charges were the most existential issue, well assisted by the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, which ran an advertising campaign for this. They succeeded: the fuel charges were reduced. It cost $2.5 billion from the Treasury. Now the Norwegian Petroleum Institute is running again with an advertising campaign, costing 2.5 million. kr. The Norwegian Petroleum Institute is an association of oil companies. Statoil is an important member and pays a quarter of this campaign. What does the Prime Minister think that parts of the state fund are now being used for a unilateral tax relief campaign and indirectly finance the election campaign of the Right and Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e334	I think this is a very good question, which addresses a very important fundamental issue, namely this with lobbyists, how they are financed, and how, without responsibility for the whole of economic policy, they can push through individual measures that can be good for one industry, but which together can weaken the Norwegian economy. It is a paradox that the large Norwegian companies are funding large-scale campaigns to help weaken the state budget, while the same companies are expressing their concern that financial policy is not tight enough and that there is too high a temperature in the Norwegian economy. I have no other answer to the very question than that I agree with much of the concern expressed by Kristin Halvorsen regarding how some companies and some organisations have great money to fight through their demands, which is most often a demand for relief to their industries and businesses, while weaker groups have much less resources to fight through their demands. The problem is that this is a kind of double message, because while the same companies are engaged in a tight budgetary policy, they are demanding billions of billions of taxpayers just for their industries. Overall, it is an irresponsible economic policy that will weaken Norwegian competitive enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e343	It's even worse than that, for this not only applies to large Norwegian companies, these are state-owned companies running a campaign against the state's own revenues. And the last time, they also managed to reduce the government's income by NOK 2.5 billion, but significant parts of that money have they stuck in their own pocket. Now it's like most people don't see any trace of the reduction that happened in the petrol and diesel tax at the petrol price. If we had spent $2.50 billion to strengthen public transport, if the demands they now make, which amount to $6-7 billion in additional annual revenue reductions, had been used to make the Oslo T-Bahn in such a constitution that people knew it was coming and going, and that they would like to take it as an alternative to the private car, and that even Jørgen Kosmo would take the train and use the Westfold course with his heart pounding and hot coffee, then this money could have been used for social responsibility. Does the Prime Minister think it is a good idea that the common fund is now spending a few dollars on strengthening the environmental movement so that it can create a counter-power for these greedy state companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e353	Firstly, I just have to stress that I believe it was right to reduce the fuel tax last year, including the diesel tax. This is because any level of charges, any level of prices, must not exceed what is considered reasonable. And I think we got close to a limit last year that was unreasonable, with the combination of charges and the high price level of crude oil. But I deeply disagree with the oil companies and the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, which therefore have campaigns for comprehensive, further tax relief, because it must somehow be financed by cuts in other important welfare goods. It could be public transport, it could be health care, it could be school or a weakening of the state budget. And if we spend more money together, the price rise and the interest rate in the weather, and that will weaken the Norwegian industry. We support Norwegian environmental organisations with money, with significantly less money available to oil companies, but the oil companies, including state-owned companies, have traditionally had independence to make those kinds of business assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e362	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e365	The Prime Minister now said that tax reductions can greatly weaken the Norwegian economy. What these lobbyists are asking for is to get back at least the price of petrol and diesel that was the purpose of the Government when it reduced the fees somewhat. I wish the Prime Minister could explain to both myself and the Norwegian people how lower fuel costs – lower petrol prices and diesel prices – will weaken the Norwegian economy. It has no practical significance for the Norwegian economy except that most people get more reasonable petrol. We believe the petrol price should be 6,50 –7 kroner. The same applies to the diesel price. Norwegian business will have lower transport costs – the high transport costs are just one of the disadvantages for business in Norway compared to competitors in other countries. How in the world is lower fuel prices weakening, which is for the benefit of most people in this country and for the benefit of industry, the Norwegian economy? There is no need to have any other impact on the state budget or the Norwegian economy than a smaller surplus in the state budget. It has no effect other than lower costs for people most and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e370	The Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen are experts in promoting a wide range of proposals that have in common that they provide a certain short-term joy and incentive but that pose long-term and serious problems. This kind of generous approach to government budgets, state budget balance and consideration or desire to have a low price increase and order in the Norwegian economy is an example of this. Of course, it is tempting to reduce all Norwegian charges. There is no one who initially wants high charges. It is not that we have fees in Norway to be mean to people. We have fees to finance health care, schools, kindergartens, social security and pensions. Then we also have to be willing to defend a reasonable level of charges, but not an unreasonable level of charges. That's why we reduced the petrol charges when we thought the petrol prices were too high. But that's also why we warn against going too far. Because we distribute too much money, demand in the economy increases in total, and then prices will gradually start to rise. It doesn't always hit the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e377	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e380	I am pleased that the Prime Minister says so clearly that he thinks that the kind of campaign we are now seeing is unfortunate. What's happened is that the Treasury is losing $2.5 billion with these tax cuts. But this does not benefit consumers, because the petrol price is about the same today as it was on 1 January. Now the petrol price is going down again – from 1 July following the decision taken by Stortinget earlier. It's going down by 32 øre plus VAT. But there is no reason to believe that consumers will benefit from this. What this shows is that we get more car traffic. What we don't get any more of is public transport. I could imagine challenging the Prime Minister as follows, because soon the revised national budget will be presented: what we need is that more people use public transport, and fewer people drive cars; it simply requires the environment. Will the revised national budget now provide compensation for public transport, so that more people actually find it so attractive that they choose to put the car in the garage and rather use public transport? We have seen relatively the lowest public transfers to public transport in Europe, and unfortunately it bears the mark of Norwegian public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e387	The Government presents its revised national budget on 11 May. Then everyone will get an answer to all the details in numbers, tables, text and figures on what we're actually proposing. It will only create disorder if I now begin to comment on individual elements of the revised budget that everyone will have access to on 11 May. In general, I can say that the great stakes, the great elections, come in the budgets that we adopt each harvest. The revised national budget is an audit, a review of the budget adopted last autumn. It is therefore not likely that we will make any significant changes to economic policy in any area. In the case of the State budget itself, it shall not be subject to half-life review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e394	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e397	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. It is interesting to see that the Right Leader uses his question to embrace the Prime Minister and his main opponents in the election campaign this year, but that is not surprising. We also see it in other important things. We see this in the hospital reform, where the Workers' Party must seek support from the right, on environmental issues, where the Prime Minister is cleaning up the requirements of the Kyoto agreement, in relation to EU membership, where the Workers' Party must also seek support from the Right, and we also see it in relation to agricultural policy, and that is where my question goes. Of course, the working party may, in a secure manner, provide support from the right-wing parties with a negotiating order or submit a breach in the negotiations to the Stortinget. But I have to say, how can the Government at all allow one of the government officials, who is actually the government's negotiating party, to go out and cancel claims from one of the negotiating partners as unrealistic, as distant from reality, before the state has presented its offer, and before the negotiations have started at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e406	I am a little uncertain as to which opinions the representative Odd Roger Enoksen is now looking for, but we have not completed the country's offer in the agricultural negotiations. We'll do that one of the next few days and then present it to the agricultural organizations. First of all, what is the starting point is that we agreed to provide a separate tax reduction for agriculture in the last year's budget, 800 million. kr, which I think is important to many in agriculture, and we had an agricultural settlement that was not agreed on, but still contained important elements, such as, among other things. several hundred million kroner for a value creation programme that has one overall objective to ensure that we get better and more products in Norwegian agriculture, so that we can get more quality, more niche production and thus better earnings in Norway and defend a slightly higher cost level. Our challenge is that international agreements are now making it impossible for us at least to add up to continued growth in agricultural transfers. It's a pressure for us to go down. In the long-term programme, we demonstrate that the total agricultural transfer is now approximately NOK 280 000 per year. use, DKK 12–13 billion above the State budget and DKK 6–7 billion in the form of customs protection, or protection support. NOK 280 000. per 1 % use is a significant sum. We feel that we are not getting enough value creation, enough district policy, for that money again, and therefore we are betting on more value creation, new and better products in Norwegian agriculture, so that agriculture and the Norwegian community can regain greater value for the significant resources that society puts into Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e417	I record that the Prime Minister is far away from the statements he himself made at the annual meeting of the Oppland Workers' Party almost a month ago. My main question was about the comments that were made after the agricultural demand was presented at the end of last week, where the signals given by the government's representatives could indicate that it was already before the government's offer was presented, and before the negotiations started, a breach was directed. There is one way to negotiate that would hardly have been accepted by any other organisation. My supplementary question to the Prime Minister is therefore: What is the Government's view of the negotiating institute towards agriculture? Will it stand firm? And are you going to engage in real negotiations with a view to reaching an agreement, or have you chosen to control a breach before the government's offer is presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e427	We're aiming to conduct real negotiations, of course, and we're not heading towards any crime. But we haven't finished in the government's offer to agricultural organisations, so there are no figures ready now. There will also be a few days when this will be presented. The demand for agriculture was in the order of SEK 1.5 billion – it is around the size, it can be calculated in a slightly different way. It's a very high number and far above what we offered last year. Then everyone can then settle their opinions and assessments of whether we're going to promote an offer that's close to 1.5 billion, or at a completely different level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e434	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e437	The Prime Minister told Oppland Arbeidarparti that one still wanted a small-scale agriculture. It is also consistent with the international trends following the disaster that has affected Europe. If one does so and one sees the figure for the year that has passed, where the average income of farmers has fallen by NOK 8 000, while the other of us has had NOK 12 000 in addition, how can one in an agricultural business keep up a small-scale agriculture and, at the same time, sympathize with the same income trends of those who practice agriculture? It appears to be a mystery. I hope that the Prime Minister agrees that farmers should have the same income trend as the rest of us, and that they will be willing to make an offer in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e444	We're going to decide on the offer first in the Government, and we're going to negotiate with the agricultural organizations, and then it's going to be presented to the Stortinget. I think that's the order. The state's offer is to be completed in the Government first. But in general, I can say that we're still going to have a support profile where we're giving more support for small uses than for large use. In connection with the Oppland meeting, I went through the numbers point by point. I'll make sure that I remember it exactly, but for example. in relation to dairy cows, I believe the aid for the smallest uses was NOK 29 000 per year. animals, while for the largest uses it was well below NOK 10000, NOK 7000 to NOK 8000 per. animals, so it's not that we don't have a very strong profile in terms of introducing small uses. The question is exactly what the profile should be like. When we spend over 20 billion kroner total from society on 70 000 annual agricultural works, 280 000 kroner per year. usage, we have to ask questions if we're doing this in a good enough way. And that's what the government is asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e451	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e454	So the government's negotiator, the departmental council Grue, has made a statement, and he's not a common prosecuting agent, so I hope the government's tightening up the system. The size has described in detail how agricultural income development should be. DK 12000 in additional income for other groups shall lead to DK 12000 in increase in income also in agriculture. The size has determined to whom it is to be compared and to be negotiated on that basis. Last year, it was tried, and it worked, to whip up agriculture in place, but they didn't do it by saying that if you don't sign what we're offering for the first time, you're going to get even greater incomes than what we put up to now. The poorer economy is a problem for food security in this country. Can we be sure that this time the state is not trying the same technique as last year to whip up agriculture in place to sign an agreement that will lead to a decline in income?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e461	An important challenge in all agricultural negotiations is, of course, that some principles can be agreed on. The question is how to apply them to specific issues and how to quantify key elements. It will be easy to agree to some guidelines, but it may be more difficult to agree on the concrete numbering. This year, for example, it will. be a discussion on how to take account of VAT reform. A halving of the food tax could provide a basis for increased sales volume from Norwegian agriculture — that is, one of the reasons for this. What kind of income effect does it have on Norwegian agriculture? At least it has a positive income effect — the question is how big, and of course it will be crucial for what framework is meant to be agricultural production. Another question is: what do you think about productivity development, about agricultural efficiency? If it wants to develop well, it speaks for a lower framework – if it develops poorly, it speaks for a higher framework. A third question is the value creation program. The purpose of the value creation programme is to create new and good products. To what extent does it generate new incomes in agriculture? That's the kind of concrete question we're now dealing with in the Government, which is going to be crucial to the final offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e473	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e476	Agricultural negotiations are particularly important this year because for two years the Labour Party has promised lower food prices for Kari and Ola Nordmann. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised this as an agricultural policy spokesman in opposition two years ago, and has repeated his promises as Minister of Agriculture. Nevertheless, everyone is dissatisfied with the Norwegian agricultural policy pursued. We have the highest food prices in the shops, we have the highest transfers, and at the same time we have many dissatisfied farmers. The Prime Minister mentioned this with a halving of the food tax, which many believe will be taken in full or in part into higher margins in the food chain. You have to bring more powder, says the Norwegian people, in order for the Workers' Party to be able to fulfill its promises. Will there be elements in the requirements of the Department of Agricultural Negotiations to lower food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e483	Yes, it will, in the sense that we have a whole that will contribute to lower food prices. We had it last year, by not – at least to a very small extent – taking the supplements in the form of increased prices, but that a lot of them. reduced costs were taken out, and there was also a separate tax deduction for agriculture. This made it possible to maintain the income development of agriculture — or to give farmers a reasonable income development — while at the same time increasing prices. If you want to increase farmers' incomes, you can give it in terms of increased prices. We don't want that, so we have to find other instruments. What we're going to do then, when VAT on food is halved, is of course to have massive price monitoring, so that we help ensure that the reduced VAT on food actually benefits consumers. We also have to be very careful about getting an agricultural settlement that turns into an increase in target prices. The offer is coming soon, then you will see what we are proposing in terms of target prices – to put it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e488	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e492	Firstly, I would like to say that I believe that the Prime Minister uses the figures on support for each use a little improperly, because quite a large part of this is about consumer support. But enough about it. When the rug lay close after the fires in England after foot-and-mouth disease, and the cowry was a hot topic, there came a very clear signal from the Government about a strong conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy towards more environment, more districts and more jobs, quite in line with what SV meant, and in line with what the Prime Minister now says. Then we get the output that comes now from the department in connection with the negotiations, the output that is completely in line with the old policy, i.e. greater use and more for production. It's the waterinking in the department that's still going on. Is it in line with the wishes of the Prime Minister and the Government that agricultural negotiations should now continue in the old tracks, despite the government's signals of a conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e499	I feel that we're actually not in the old tracks in the sense that we're not looking new and thinking new about agriculture. The whole idea of trying to develop new and better products is a contribution to making Norwegian agriculture more profitable, without relying on increased State aid. Because it's a problem that in the world society it's so that we are increasingly agreeing on agreements that at least make it harder for us to increase agricultural transfers. Therefore, we must try to ensure employment, value creation and safe and clean food within the framework we have today. And that's the challenge the government has taken, among other things. by looking at how we can get better products. As all other traders have to do in Norway, it is therefore necessary to contribute to the development of products, to their marketing, in order to achieve profitability. We will continue to have small uses in Norway, partly because not all are full-time farmers – many are farmers in part-time – and partly because small uses in the European sense are used under – let’s say – 100 cows, and very many uses in Norway meet that condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e507	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e510	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. Over the past few weeks, the Prime Minister and the Government have contributed to creating some uncertainty as to the future role of financial policy in managing the Norwegian economy. These include: central economists, who claim that the Government's arrangements are a permanent expansionary fiscal policy, and that the pressure on interest rates to be regulated is thus imposed. My question is quite simply: what role does the Prime Minister think fiscal policy should play in the future in relation to today? And does the Prime Minister agree that a higher interest rate, which may be a possible consequence of more use of oil money in the Norwegian economy, is unacceptable, not least because it is unsocial and is not a contribution to combating differences in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e522	It would have been tempting to refer to the documents submitted by the Government, where we describe both the long-term programme and the own communication on monetary policy – the relationship between monetary policy and financial policy – where the answer to Sponheim’s question is described in detail. In order to try to provide a short version: budgetary policy, or fiscal policy, should continue to help balance the fluctuations in the Norwegian economy, but around a slightly different path from what we originally set up, because then it was supposed to have zero increase in the use of oil revenues, that is. We didn't think so, but the projections contained in the long-term programme added: zero increase in the use of oil revenues. That's what we think is a crazy approach, because then you added up to zero increase in a few years and then a huge increase in a few years. We think it's better to have a balanced use of oil revenues, and we've said that we can use the yield of the oil fund. If there's one thing I'm absolutely sure of, it's that it's still going to look like a tight and responsible fiscal policy, and that the demand of most people is going to be to use even more. A use of an amount of NOK 4 billion is important, but it is limited in relation to all the demands and wishes that come about lower taxes and increased costs. We're going to use fiscal policy to balance the fluctuations in the economy, but along a slightly different path than the one you originally saw.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e531	In any case, these documents are not clearer than it is clear that they have created some uncertainty, and therefore it should be right to use every opportunity to make sure about this, because it is possible to imagine that this with a ‘second path’ could be a contribution to a certain dual communication in an electoral campaign, where the Government and the Prime Minister would like to participate in a small part of the monetary gap in terms of oil money, to which the Progress Party puts up, but in reality, when it comes to the issue, will stand firm on what is traditionally and for which I am pleased, namely, that financial policy should be tight when it is necessary to prevent interest from rising. I choose to interpret the answer to that that when it comes to the problem, no more use of oil money will contribute to the increase in interest rates for most people in this country. Then there is a fiscal policy that may be more widespread in the use of oil money or a ‘second path’ in the allocation of oil money over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e536	I feel like there's a lot of ways to think about this. Among other things, when we made two proposals, both that we can use the yield of the oil fund – we are not going to use the fund itself, but only the return – and about a numerical fixation that we should have low inflation, low price increases in Norway, namely 2.5 p.m., and gave the Bank of Norway a more formalized, or regulated, mandate to ensure it, it was estimated that it itself did not go towards higher or lower interest rates. That's probably the best picture that this conversion itself does not affect interest rates either positively or negatively. Then it's our ability to practice this policy, keep costs down, and also be able to use fiscal policy to balance fluctuations, which in the long run determine whether we succeed in getting interest rates down, or whether they can rise in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e543	So we're going on with the next main question, which is from Arne Lyngstad. If time permits, the last main question will be asked by Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e546	The Prime Minister will be allowed to go and sit down. The question goes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. The state councils have been very keen both as a staggering representative and as a state council to provide students with free textbooks in high school. The size has granted money to a lending scheme, and this is the first school year the lending scheme works. One premise was that the money that was given was to reduce students' spending on school books. In advance, the advice was that students should receive a school boxing grant, because these would go directly to reduce students’ spending. This school year’s experience shows that all the money does not pay students book expenses. What will the Council of State do to make the money in its entirety benefit the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e553	It's quite right that the representative Lyngstad points out that making sure that high school students don't pay NOK 3000 to NOK 4000, maybe NOK 5000, for their books each fall, is an important matter for this government, and it also fits well with families with children, because this is usually about people who have more children in the school system. It is also true that we have demanded that the county councils use the money in such a way that the total amount is paid to the students in terms of reduced expenses for school books. Now the reports from the government's education offices show that not all the states have been good enough to do the job the way they were supposed to. Therefore, we have demanded that they explain how the entire amount should benefit the students, before they are allocated the amount of the harvest book purchase. As far as follow-up is concerned, they have been given a deadline that now expires on 15 May, as far as I remember, and then the amounts will be allocated to the county councils as they explain how they will use all the money allocated to school books in their entirety. In fact, with regard to the proposal for scholarships, the Labour Party in the Stortinget, when we had a central government, suggested that the central government either investigate free school books that the schools bought, or introduce a scholarship model. The central government rejected both proposals, both scholarships and school books, so it's obvious that there's a new campaign approaching, as the center parties now smell on the scholarship model again. But they have therefore voted in favour of proposals on this in Stortinget. I think it is better resource use that schools buy books, that they can be used for several years – some of the resources can be used without problems, for example. reading book collection in Norwegian, etc. can be used for more years – than that each coal of students has to buy new books, and that the books may occasionally have been replaced a little unnecessary by changing a chapter or a table in new editions from the publishers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e562	It was warned against a loan scheme by people in the school sector, precisely because a fear that one had no guarantee that the entire amount would benefit the students, and the experience shows that the advice from the grassroots was really worth listening to. Questions are now raised by the Council of State's willingness to listen to people in school, in practice. Governments are also keen to develop online textbooks, and teachers are now asking for better equipment, training and people to operate schools’ computer systems before using Internet textbooks. Will the Council of State listen to the advice in the school sector in its further work on teaching materials at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e570	I don't think one should move very much around in high school until you hear the demand that the textbooks in high school should be free. I still have the pleasure of meeting almost a single student, apart from perhaps the youth organizations of the Centre Party, who disagrees with the requirement for free school books in high school. And especially if we're going to develop educational materials on the Internet, it's brilliant to make them free of charge, because what is the hallmark of online learning material? Well, it costs exactly the same thing if there are thousands or hundreds of thousands of people using them. If we take that bill on the government's hand, buy the educational materials and spend it for free, all students will be able to use it. And not only all students, but also adults who are now entitled to secondary education, can use them, or the whole community as a whole. You can even use different teaching materials in parts of the subject and get a much greater flexibility in school. This is why the goal of free schoolbooks is also largely adapted to modern, digital learning materials. And just to say something about the equipment, one of the things that the workers' party government did after the central government fell was to increase the funding for ICT in school by 100 million. I also feel that we have a relatively spot-free roller blade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e579	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e582	The type and cost of teaching materials used also have implications for the working environment of students. A year ago, on 18 May last year, a majority of the government in Stortinget asked for a proposal for a working environment law for students and students. In the proposal, which was endorsed by Stortinget, it was provided that this would come before Christmas. We were promised that a bill would come during the winter. We have not yet received a draft separate work environment law for students and students. My follow-up question is therefore: When can we expect the Government to follow up on what a majority in this Parliament has asked for us to get a proposal for a separate working environment law for students and students?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e591	We're working on a bill. There are certain procedures in relation to consultation deadlines, etc. which we now have to follow, but we have drawn up a concrete proposal which is now being consulted and which will be submitted in a short time. However, it is not only important to bring about proper legislation for students, for which the Government is responsible, it is also important to ensure that municipalities are able to comply with that legislation. Therefore, a strengthened local economy, not only in the form of free resources, but also funds that can be used for schools, is important to achieve that objective. We have to clean up a lot of school buildings, we have to improve the indoor climate, and we have to provide proper equipment for the students. I think this is going to be one of the most important promises in the education sector in the years to come. But then we also have to demand that the municipalities use the possibilities they have to upgrade the schools. We see, for example: Today, a big headline in the Newspaper that schools are due in the country’s capital – the Right Exhibition Window. Here you have income opportunities in the hundreds of millions class that you don't use. Here you also have to do something locally if you're going to get a real lift for the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e598	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e601	My question goes to the Prime Minister. The coast is the future of Norway. That's where we're going to pick up our wealth, that's where our future lies, it's said in a number of speeches. Everyone agrees. At the same time, we find that priorities relating to safety along the coast are still falling. We have asked for a total of approx. 30 questions since the New Year about coastal surveillance and only received conflicting answers. The maritime defence must be brought down to a large extent. We have four vessels to monitor the coast from the Swedish border and to Rørvik. At the same time, we are the external border of Schengen. The rescue company lacks money, and the Coast Guard lacks money. At the same time, we have a resource situation in the Barents Sea that's precarious, if that's what it looks like. Does the Government intend to take this situation seriously and start putting the coast on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e612	I fully agree that the coast is very important for Norway. Norway has lived for hundreds of years by the riches the sea can give us. And fish and business along the coast will still be very important to us. This is why we have been focusing on the development of new industries and the development of traditional industries, linked to both farming and aquaculture, for example, now. in relation to cod farming, which we believe will be a great potential for Coast Norway. We need safety at sea. To that I just want to say that it is not that we are now going to have a comprehensive reduction of the Maritime Defense. We're making time investments in new frigates. SEK 15–16 billion has been set aside, and we are going to have very modern, sea-going frigates that are going to greatly increase Norway's ability to care for Norwegian interests, and that will be present on the major sea areas off the Norwegian coast. It's not a decline, it's a very extensive investment. Then we have recently launched a new coastguard vessel, KV ‘Svalbard’, and we are working on many small and large measures to strengthen coastal surveillance. The Minister for Fisheries has explained this in detail earlier and can re-examine it if the representative Bastesen is keen to improve his understanding of all the issues related to, inter alia, the issue. multiple fixed traffic controllers, better use of the data facility provided by the Defence for coastal traffic and warning of the transport of dangerous goods, inter alia. in the case of solid shipments of radioactive waste from Russia along the Norwegian coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e621	I will not be persuaded by the Prime Minister's reply. Coast Guard's missing $30 million today. kr for normal sailing activity in the Barents Sea. If we get five new frigates, there won't be much money to send those boats to the sea with the budgeting going on. They'll be lying on Haakonsvern. The rescue company lacks money to protect civil traffic and is bent when accidents occur. We're missing a decision on the rescue helicopter question. The Sea King helicopter is now becoming worn out. It can be upgraded for a reasonable amount of money. It's a helicopter that goes all the way out to 250 nautical miles. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice are arguing about a unit helicopter, in reality a combat helicopter with a capacity of only 150 nautical miles, justified by the number of helicopters. It doesn't help if there's a hundred helicopters out at 150 nautical miles when the Hagarist is 250 nautical miles at sea. When can we expect answers to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e630	First of all, it's not right that the Coast Guard should be down-prioritized. We attach great importance to the coastguard, and we have also recently received a new coastguard vessel that is very important for the Coast Guard. The frigates are also important for the fishing industry because they can patrol, contribute to better resource management, control and oversight in the large seas, not least outside North Norway. In the case of rescue services, rescue helicopters, the matter is now dealt with in the Government. I'm a little unsure whether it's actually presented to the Storting, but in case one of the nearest days will happen. And what I can say is that there's going to be a reinforcement of the rescue service, a reduced response time, so that the helicopter service could be faster at the accident site, of course at sea. We are committed to strengthening preparedness, linked to the use of rescue helicopters, in the proposal we want to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e637	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e643	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Defence. Question 11, from the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 19, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e659	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e662	‘It appears that the Government does not take into account the signals coming from the Stortinget at all. Like the undersigned, other batches have also indicated, more than suggested, that the most cost-effective and rational way of monitoring and controlling ship traffic is to continue to be carried out by the Defence. How, then, does the Government intend to transfer this responsibility to the Ministry of Justice, and does the Government also intend to place the Coast Guard under the same department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e669	I do not fully understand what the representative Bastesen is aiming for when he talks about transferring responsibility for monitoring and controlling the shipping traffic to the Ministry of Justice. It is also unclear to me what it can mean that the Government, as asked, ‘does not take into account the signals coming from the Storting.’ Several government councils have answered questions in the same street for several weeks and explained in detail the work being done. Let me therefore once again stress that today's defence has a significant role to play in terms of maritime surveillance, and that will still be the case. The Coast Guard itself has a special responsibility for traffic control. It is not necessarily the case that one establishment should be responsible for everything in the area of monitoring and control of coastal activities. The important thing is that the agencies responsible for these areas can work together and use the resources in a common interest. Here, it's obviously a canvas to bleach, and the government is now working to improve this. But there are no plans to add this responsibility to the Ministry of Justice. The question of subordinateing the Coast Guard to a department other than the Ministry of Defence appears at regular intervals. My position on this is very clear: the issue is completely out of date. Coast Guard is an integral part of the Maritime Defense. Today's system also works very well for civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e678	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have an additional question: on 7 February this year, the Minister of Defence stated that coastal surveillance is and will be a central task for the Defence. Despite this and despite Storting's signals to the Government, Stortinget receives information from the central government that the government will transfer responsibility for coastal preparedness, i.e. KBAL, etc. to the Ministry of Justice and the Central Rescue Centres. In addition, it is proposed to use 200 million. kr to oil protection equipment in an area with 41 foreign tanker calls last year — one of the vessels was Russian — where the main emphasis of ownership is Norwegian. What is the reason why the Government now has different opinions? And why isn't the Storting kept informed about something that's so central?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e685	Yes, first of all, I note that the representative is pleased with my reply that the Coast Guard remains under the Defence Department, and that there are no plans to move it to the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the division of labour between the many departments involved in the work on coastal issues, I have to point out what I have said in the past. There are no new signals from the Government here compared to what I replied in February, but we are looking at better coordination of resources so that we can find a better mutual use of them. I can't see that what's happened since then is in conflict with what I or the other state councils have said on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e692	The Council of State draws too fast conclusions when he concludes that I am satisfied with the answer he gives. The defence has previously assessed the needs that exist and investigated the details and costs of ensuring comprehensive coastal surveillance, which, unlike the Government's preliminary proposals, embraces all ships. The complete solution is calculated for approx. 600 million. kr, including an interim solution for approx. 300 million. kr. The latter may be in place within 12 to 18 months. The size has previously provided the necessary means to ensure the coordination of existing surveillance resources, including the coast radar in South Norway, and that solution established by the Defence in the form of a maritime surveillance centre. Why has the government thrown away nearly six months without the expertise of the defense being used? What is the reason why the members of the Government have failed to respond — yes, even misinformed about previous questions about this? The size is now tired of midwives and, as the Minister understands, it is not enough to refer to the work in progress. The Storting expects this also to be transferred to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e701	The representative Bastesen talks a little bit fast and in very general terms. I suggest that he send a written question about this, so that these misunderstandings can be clarified once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e709	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The proportion of women in defence is too low. The Action Plan for Increased Women’s Share in Defence states that it is important to make defence visible as an attractive workplace for women. Naked images on the walls of the country’s barracks cannot be said to increase the well-being of women’s employees. In Sweden, the defence has taken this work seriously and, among other things, has introduced a general ban on naked pictures on the walls. Does the Council of State consider this to be something that should also be assessed in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e718	In relation to the matter in question, which the representative does not directly ask, the captain in question took a rapid action. The Committee of Trustees of the Defence Department has regretted the incident in relation to a publication for which the Ministry is responsible. I am pleased that we are fully in line here with both the command organizations and others who have asked for a strong and clear response. Of course, I'm concerned that the defense is going to be an attractive job for women. When marking the International Women's Day on March 8th, I took the initiative to consult on why women end up in Defense, and how we can recruit and keep women. The consultation showed that there is a significant commitment and desire to improve women's position and career opportunities in the Defence, both among the employees and in the Military Management of the Defence. The work on gender equality in Defence has been ongoing for a long time, and a strategic plan for gender equality and an action plan for increased female participation in Defence has been drawn up. The Equality Act obliges employers to prevent sexual harassment. Removing naked pictures from the wall may be a relevant measure. Under the provisions in force for the decoration of embellishment rooms, it is necessary that pictures, photographs and posters should not appear offensive or provocative, as it clearly did in the case mentioned in the introduction. There is no general prohibition on nakedness, but unlucky images are not allowed. These provisions are now under review. The aim of the new provisions and their practice is, of course, to provide a pleasant and good working environment for all categories of personnel, irrespective of gender. However, I would like to assess all aspects of this matter, including: by obtaining background material and experience from Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e734	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased with the measures he is taking and the consultation he has been involved in, and I am pleased with the press releases both from the National Committee of Trustees in Defence and from the Council of State itself. In its press release on Soldiers News and the article that said, the Council of State says that they show poor judgment. That's what we have to try to avoid, that's that this has to be determined by judgement. Reactions in both women and men around the globe are cross-political. It is not just we in the Christian People's Party who want to address this matter. In order to avoid this with discretion, it's important that we get a ban so that everyone knows what they're dealing with. It's about recruiting women, and it's about keeping women in Defense. I'd like to ask the Council of State directly whether he's in favour of a ban on nude pictures on the barracks. It's not enough to invite you to a cooperation, as the Council of State has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e745	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e748	I refer to my first answer, and I can confirm that I believe this is something that should also be assessed in Norway, which is what the representative originally asks about. It may end up with a complete ban. In principle, images of naked both women and men who are not offensive or provocative can be thought of. I myself have experienced hearing Christian People's Party representatives speak commendably about this type of painting if it is inserted into a frame, and not what we are obviously talking about here, i.e. provocative and provocative images. We are dedicated to finding out what is the experience from Sweden. Of course, a ban can be the most appropriate and manageable way to do it. But here I again refer to what I said in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e757	I thank you again for the answer. I hope we come to the conclusion that it will be a ban. Although such images may be nice and one may want to have them at home or where one will, this is a kind of public space, and it's a workplace for both women and men. I think it would make it much easier if we had a ban. I hope that will be the result of the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e767	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘For the purposes of the use of the Eastern Region, a plan document from the FBT/RØ dated 15 February 2001 on the activity for the period July to October is set out as follows: ‘July: clearing, Aug.-Oct. ; small activity, up to 5-800 men.» In the Multiconsults premisdocument, it goes on to say that there will be a lot of activity in the yellow and green zone throughout the year. How does this harmonize with a so-called free period of activity and set a minimum period of 3 months from Sankthans?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e776	In St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99, under the description of the needs and uses of the defence, the activities of the defence in the region area are illustrated by the peak pressures throughout the year – a plan well known to the Defence Committee from the time of discussions. In its comments, the Defence Committee just refers to this and the majority advocates the introduction of an activity-free period of a total of three months within the period from Sankthan to 1 November, so that the summer months and the harvest are protected to a greater extent than is foreseen in the notification itself. The Ministry of Defence has requested in its letter of implementation that this be included as part of the planning prerequisites for the project Regionfield East Germany. In the work on important planning issues in the forthcoming work on the local authority sub-plan for the region of Eastern Europe, the defence has provided an example at the level of activity within the above conditions. With the term ‘activity-free period’ I understand a period of time during which exercises are not carried out in the field. However, it has always been necessary to operate the clearance, maintenance and development of the field, including removal of deadliers and upgrading of roads and roads. In order to meet the three-monthly non-activity assumption, the regional project organisation has proposed that the use of the field and the exercise-free period be adapted to local main interests. It has therefore been proposed that the field be free of practice throughout July and the first week of August. The field is then free of practice for one week in the case of small game hunting, and for two weeks in the case of the elk gout in September/October. The remaining four weeks are set out in the annual activity plan based on cooperation in a Cooperation Council. For information, I can mention that for Hierkin shooting grounds such cooperation councils with local interests, called the Brain Council, have been established. Multiconsult, the noise investigator of the Defence Building Service, describes the scheme in its mission definition as follows – and this is a complete quote in contrast to the representative’s: ‘There will be a lot of activity in the yellow and green zone throughout the year in the framework of an example of activity level.’ I underline: within the framework of Example at activity level. This implies that the activity will fall within the Storting’s assumption of non-activity months, which in practice means that there will be no significant activity in significant parts of the year. At my discretion, the project organisation, in consultation with local interests, has found a sensible solution, by emphasising the periods in which the field is initially most used, and by entrusting to a Cooperation Council the rest of the exercise-free period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e794	I thank the Minister of Defence for the answer and find it to be satisfactory in relation to the intention of St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99 and the debate in Stortinget in this context, where it was quite correctly clarified that there should be three months of activity. Now the defence noise experts themselves define the silence as 30 decibels. Will the Council of State take steps to limit noise to that level at least during the non-activity period?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e801	It is a question that I am not prepared to answer now, but we are of course reviewing the different aspects of the noise problem at the regional field continuously. We have not been presented with any final material from the Defence Command or from others at that point. So we have to get back to that. What I can assure you is that we will act in accordance with both the Storting decision and the Storting intention at this important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e806	As far as this Cooperation Council is concerned, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence if he has a sketch of how it will be composed, which parties will be there. We'll probably come back to the use of the field also in relation to the signals now given by the defense team, that this becomes an expensive field in many ways, also because it's going to be such an activity-free period, in relation to the cost-benefit factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e813	We have not established any special leadership from the Department regarding the composition of this Cooperation Council, except that we have experience that it has worked and works well on the Hierkin. It is a similar model that the project organisation for the regional field has established, and I have reason to believe that it has turned well on locally so far, at least I have not received any indication of the opposite. It is clear that it is important in a problematic complex such as this to have a cooperative body against local interests, both municipal and, where appropriate, others. Of course, with regard to the dietary benefit of this field, we had many debates on it in the Grand Duchy in our time, and we based on what met the needs of the defence for a large regional field of shooting and practice in southern Norway, but given those activities, it was not impossible to reconcile it with a plan of activities that at least large parts of the community saw the sense, even if they were not satisfied with it, and the fact that we are now working together to follow up the wording of the position in this area is a sign of the same thing. But, of course, I am fully aware that the representative of Lutvold prefers not to have this field, and from that point of view, there is a lot that is wrong anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e823	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Smoking companies in Melbu and Hammerfest have received 75 million. SEK in loans and grants from SND. According to today’s industry, SND believes that many companies in the fillet industry have to go away but that the two mentioned have to pass. Have the elected bodies in Northern Norway been involved in a process to determine the capacity to be built up in these two establishments and which of the smaller fish and processing plants in the part of the country would not have the right to life?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e832	The key guidelines to be followed by the SND for support for projects in the fisheries sector are laid down by the Ministry of Fisheries. In relation to the fishing industry, SND, the county councils and municipalities shall, through the use of the instrument, give priority to projects aimed at increasing the degree of processing and product range based on new competitive technology. A future competitive filleting industry requires both the use of new, higher quality assurance production technologies and the availability of expertise in which facilities are to be located. The county has the strategic responsibility within national fisheries policy objectives at regional level. The regional development plan for the Nordic region shows that it is an objective to contribute to the development of competitive entities within fleets, industry and farming based on competence, innovation and innovation. Furthermore, adaptation to larger and more robust units has given the fishing and farming industry greater opportunities for innovation and innovation. The involvement of SND in individual cases is based on analyses of how the relevant industries will develop in the future. According to the guidelines, the SND shall base its support decisions on the fulfilment of criteria in areas such as innovation, district development, competence building and international competitiveness. It is also a prerequisite for aid that private individuals are willing to contribute capital to the project. I would like to stress that it is important to maintain a varied structure with both large and small units in order to achieve increased value creation and processing in the Norwegian fishing industry. In this context, I see SND’s support for the two mentioned fish fillets as an important contribution to the development of the Norwegian fishing industry and to the activity in North Norway. It is not premise for decisions to transfer capacity from other installations to the Melbu and Hammerfest plants. I also see that the projects are in line with both national and regional leadership in this area. Finally, I would like to point out that both cases have been assessed and recommended by the local SND boards in the affected states.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e845	I thank you for the answer and note that the Council of State is satisfied with what has happened in the case, and that the capacity of the two mentioned plants will not be increased at the expense of others. The role of the county council in setting up regional development programmes, which will be a concrete step towards national policies in each area, and which will determine where to use SND’s money, for example. in the Nordic region, is absolutely central, and it's about large amounts, 75 million. kr of SND’s relatively limited resources. This is about where the workplaces should be to keep the housing pattern we have. We have limited fishing resources. It is about taking care of the infrastructure built up, it is about prioritising small and large enterprises, and it is about supporting those who need capital in relation to those who already have capital. And for the last time, I've understood it so that capital is not defective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e852	I now feel that the comment of the representative Lund is sceptical about the means of action, namely the SND, both to the regional governments and to the national board, which actually has the task of following up the objectives set by this house. The responsibility for SND, both regional and national, is precisely through projects to follow up national policy objectives. Now there'll be some replacements on SND's main board, and that's the way we control it. There is a part that is very close to Morten Lund, both in the regional governments and in the central government, which has adopted this. Then the answer is to get them replaced if they do not do the job as the Storting wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e857	I guess it's not the right expression. But I think it is alarming that there is so much money coming to an enterprise where we have understood through the media that there is enough capital and money to implement it as you see it as appropriate. Another field in which the SND will also contribute to the implementation of national policies is within what is called ownership. What ownership do we want in Norwegian business, especially in coastal industries, which is going to be so important to us? I believe that there is a broad consensus that we should have local, active, long-term owners as far as possible, so that the benefits of fishing establishments remain on the coast. Does the Council of State think that what has been done in this matter is also within those objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e864	We have given responsibility both to the regional governments and to the national board to follow up the objectives of the Storting and the Government. They have stressed that there should be greater processing, based on innovation and innovation, while not being at the expense of the others. I believe that the rulers have done what we actually believe they should do. However, both in the regional governments and in the national government, the Small User Team, the Bondelag and the Fiskerlag are represented, and there are also several representatives from Morten Lund's own party. Then the answer is in a way whether they have done such a bad job that they should be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e874	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘What will the Council of State do to enable the state-owned enterprises of the NSB BA and the Railway Agency to provide services and quality in a way that meets the requirements of customers, and in what way will he establish cooperation with the Minister of Transport in order to achieve this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e881	The responsibility of the NSB BA and the Railway Agency lies as well as with the Minister of Transport on behalf of the Government. When the above questions are addressed to the Minister of Labour and Administration, I assume that it is as a result of a recent look-up in the media, where the content of a note from me to the Minister of Transport was reproduced. The note was meant to be a opinion, where as a train user I had views on a development I as a traveler thought was negative. Also, in my area of responsibility, I meet between frustrated and some angry users. Criticism is never pleasant, but yet it is important to listen to it, take it seriously and use it as a source of improvement. In the Government's renewal programme, one of the main objectives is that organisation and service production should be based on the needs of users. If we are to be able to do this, we must be in dialogue with the users and take their needs and views seriously. And in particular, we need to listen to the dissatisfied users. Only then can we correct the mistakes that we're making. This is important for all public enterprises and, in fact, essential for the parts of public enterprises operating in a market, as the NSB does. For society, it is important that the railway can continue to develop as a good, attractive and environmentally friendly transport service. With regard to the means of achieving this objective, proposals will be presented for a railway policy that Stortinget can actively help to maximise. However, as I have said before, this is a task that the Minister of Transport will handle on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e896	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I notice that the Council of State is distancing itself from the situation in which the NSB BA and the Railway Agency have come. I assume that the Minister of Administration, among others. has the task of contributing to the state-of-the-art and efficient use of modern methods and, furthermore, to the provision of good quality and reliability services by these establishments. And that's not the case with the NSB BA and the Railways. This means that these two activities need to be improved in a number of areas, administrative, economic and technical, in order to make them work. That's what I'm calling for the Minister of Administration's input to get these businesses to operate according to the best methods, for the benefit of the customers. I'm calling for that initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e903	In fact, I believe that the representative of the Storing is familiar with and, in itself, is also in agreement with the responsibility and importance of the Chair of the Storing. In presenting opinions to individual state-owned establishments under the responsibility of individual state councils, it is important that both the comments and discussions about the future of these companies and their obligations be made in relation to the Council of State which is constitutionally responsible. In addition, I would like to say that I am so far from being a Minister of Labour and Administration or as a member of the Government that I distance myself from the issues and challenges facing the NSB. But it is the Minister of Transport who is to present that policy to the Stortinget, not the Minister of Labour and Administration. In addition, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Labour and Administration actively participates in the Government's renewal committee, where good future management policies are investigated and addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e912	I thank the Council of State again for the answer, and with the last thing he said, I assume that he will actively contribute to improving the conditions in the NSB. But I think it's a little discouraging to see his distance from the situation of two so big state companies. I am fully aware of the responsibilities of individual government councils, but the job of the Minister of Labour and Administration is precisely to make things slip, to be well-grunted, so that it can work for the best of both customers and passengers and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e919	Of course, I am aware of the obligations of the Minister of Labour and Administration to be involved in the development of a management policy both in the direct state enterprises and in the freed state enterprises, so that a policy can be adopted in relation to the users to meet the needs of the users. It is precisely an essential part of the Government’s renewal programme. The representative can therefore be very sure that I do not distance myself from these issues. But when the railway policy is to be presented to the Stortinget, I suppose the representative understands that for the sake of the constitutional rules, it is best that it is the Minister of Transport who does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e924	We go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e930	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Finance as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e933	I allow myself to ask the following questions – now addressed to the Minister of Finance: «The government expects a much lower energy output from the power-intensive industry in the years to come. At the same time, the Government does not seem to add the majority clarification to the Inst. S. No 233 for 1997-1998 that the selling price of allowances is to be related to the existing charging rates of the activities, on the basis of the greenhouse gas allowance system. The government also requires higher electricity prices. Does the Government, inter alia, through its charging policy, aim to phase out the powerful industry from Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e942	The long-term programme 2002-2005 provides for projections of the use of energy and environmentally harmful emissions by 2020. These projections are based on a number of assumptions, largely of a computational nature. Prerequisites have been made on macroeconomic developments, developments in international energy markets and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The projections are based on a calculation technical assumption that the Kyoto Protocol's emission reduction requirements will enter into force and that they will be met in an artificially efficient way, inter alia through: an international system of tradable greenhouse gas allowances where all pay market prices for greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, it is provided that the Norwegian electricity market is more closely linked to the European electricity market and that Norwegian electricity prices will increasingly be affected by electricity prices on the continent. With the computational assumptions taken into account, inter alia: the development of energy markets and climate policy, the projections in the long-term programme provide for a decline in production in power-intensive industries. It has been common practice to adopt a cost-effective climate policy for this type of energy use projections and environmentally harmful emissions. Therefore, the estimated impact on power consumption and industrial output is in line with previous projections, see Table 1. e.g. the projections of the 1998-2001 Long-term Programme. The Government did not intend to draw up a calculation option to illustrate the Government's overall energy and environmental policy. However, the projections presented in the long-term programme illustrate the challenging challenges Norway faces in the years ahead in terms of energy and climate policy. The Norwegian charging system has made special adjustments to the power-intensive industry. The industry does not pay the CO2 tax on emissions from industrial processes. They have a sulphur charge that is much lower than the charge for other activities. The industry is also exempt from electricity taxes. The government considers it important to ensure a high-growth business and, through an efficient use of production resources, to provide the basis for a continued strong competitive sector. For this reason, the Government of the long-term programme has also announced measures to improve the growth capacity of the economy, such as: tax relief on work and increased appropriations for research and infrastructure. As far as climate policy is concerned, the Government has announced that it will present a proposal for a greenhouse gas allowance system in the spring of 2001 that can be implemented if the Kyoto Protocol enters into force. The government comes back to the concrete design of climate policy in its own communication to the Stortinget. The calculations in the long-term programme are therefore only a calculation technical illustration. They are not expressions of political choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e962	I think the Minister of Finance is giving a rather eye-catching response, where he is almost downgrading the Government's long-term programme so as not to have political overtones to tell me anything about how the Government promotes its political views on Norway's largest export industry per year. today, and states that this is not the government's policy. For the sake of this industry, there is then a minimum requirement that the Government should at least use a different language and then report in a completely different way and through other documents – if it is the case that grossing-up messages and grossing-up propositions are not political documents – how they plan the future of this industry. It is Norway's largest export industry. It has up to 60,000 employees around the country, and these deserve a different answer than referring to the fact that this is not the government's policy. What is the Government’s Norwegian process industry policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e969	The government's policy is that we want a strong competitive sector, and it is clear from the long-term programme. But the representative of Kristiansen knows very well, like all other representatives in this Chamber, that in particular. documents of the type of the long-term programme are implemented with a number of estimates of different assumptions showing the nature of the issues to be addressed. For the calculations carried out here, it has been made quite clear that they are based on given computational assumptions, they are not an expression of government policy choices. The government’s policy choice in the long-term programme is that the Government clearly states that a strong competitive sector is to be desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e976	Is that so to understand that when you estimate a future take-off of power in a powerful industry that is going down 25-30 pst, as stated in St.meld. No 37 for 2000–2001, is this figure on which the process industry in Norway should not base its future? Can this industry expect to have the government in its back in expectation of a power take-off at about the current level? Now I'm not talking about any increase. Is it also true that the Workers' Party is on its way away from the joint comments it had two years ago with the Right on the attitude towards climate change for industry, so that this type of industry would be more or less exempt from being affected by this policy? Can we expect that the process industry will in future have the government in its back, and that it will not aim to reduce the power take-off by 25-30 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e985	I think it is quite obvious that an industry does not build its activity on arithmetical examples in a document. Therefore, it is also not the production in the long-term programme that energy consumption should decrease by 25 pst. It is a computational example that describes how development will be, given some assumptions that have been explained. That's why, as I also said in my answer, the government has not intended to develop an estimate option to illustrate the entire government's energy and environmental policy. And that's why, of course, it's also so that the industry doesn't base its behavior on given assumptions that are put into a calculation example. Nevertheless, it is useful for the political actors to know that given that they and the prerequisites are there, they will and will do so, so that they have the opportunity to set up their policies in order to achieve the objectives they want. And the goal of the Workers' Party and the Government is a highly competitive sector. This is the signal given in the long-term programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e995	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1001	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Health Service, according to the Bergensavisen on 23 April 2001, will not use SEK 200,000 for a back operation in Sweden that could bring a 30-year-old man back to work. In Norway, he/she is offered rehabilitation and retraining for over 2 years. For him to come to this offer, the public taxi bill covers 160,000 kroner a year. Will the Council of State ensure that Norwegian back patients who can benefit from it are offered treatment, if necessary in Swedish hospitals, where the expertise in this area is greater?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1010	I am asking for an understanding that I am not commenting on the specific matter to which it is referred, but I am referring to the question asked by the representative Sjøli. The starting point is that Norwegian back patients should be offered good treatment in Norway. To the extent that it does not happen, e.g. because of lack of capacity or competence, it is important to do something about it. There is a basis for claiming that care for back-patients in Norway has been too low a priority. It was therefore decided in the 1999 budget to establish a national back network to strengthen the professional competence of the country. It is now also working to establish a national function for complicated back disorders at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. The aim is to provide Norwegian back patients with good treatment in Norway. When it is not always possible to do so, it is important to ensure that they can alternatively receive the treatment they need abroad. A mechanism to ensure this is currently in place. The assumption is that there is a reference to such treatment by a specialist at regional hospital level. The application is addressed to the Rikstrygdeverket which assesses and concludes. In the event of any refusal, the applicant has the opportunity to have the matter assessed by a separate complaint subject for international proceedings. Back operations can often be extensive and complicated. There is significant medical disagreement as to which patients would benefit from such operations. That is also the case in other countries. Experience also shows that far from all operations, the desired results are achieved. Now it is easy to understand that back patients who are refused surgery will not automatically settle down with the medical evaluation. I have therefore taken the initiative to provide patients applying to the Swedish National Agency for Operations who are being refused a second assessment – a second opinion – at the Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg. This is a reputable university hospital with a high level of competence in the treatment of and research into back disease. With this initiative, I hope to make a constructive contribution to providing new knowledge about which patients will really benefit from these extensive interventions. I also aim to ensure that the second opinion agreement at Sahlgrenska contains a follow-up of patients after one to two years, so that they can thus gain better knowledge of which patients will really benefit from the operations. The initiative will also highlight which patients will benefit most from other treatments. Medically speaking, this is a complex and challenging area. It is therefore very important to select patients for surgery according to the best possible criteria. I believe that the arrangement we now have with the possibility to investigate and treat in Sweden, together with a strengthening of the capacity and competence of Norwegian hospitals, will ensure that Norwegian back patients receive the type of offer requested by the representative Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1031	I thank the Minister for the positive answer. It is gratifying that an initiative is now being taken to give us a so-called second opinion at Swedish hospitals, which have greater and wider competence in this area. I thought that was very positive. It is also a pleasure to have a follow-up one to two years after such treatment has been carried out in Sweden. That is what the Minister for Health was talking about, some professional disagreements in this area. Here in Norway, neurologists generally assess, while in other countries, orthopaedics are considered. It might be interesting to hear whether the Minister of Health believes it could have been possible to organise a consensus conference, just to get on the table what are the differences in the professional assessments between the Norwegian professional community and the international trade union community in the case of back and neck injuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1038	Without having to decide here and now on the question of convening such a consensus conference, I would at least like to say that there has been a search on a problem area in the Norwegian specialist medical environments that we recognize has been underprioritized in the past. I believe that both through the network that is established, and through the establishment of the national function of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim, and not least through the cooperation that is now being established with the medical profession in Sweden, we will receive attention on the professional issues that are raised here, which have not been there before, and which will of course be of benefit to the back patients in Norway. If it would be desirable to organise a special conference in this area, the Minister of Health should not be a brake pad in this regard, but I will take the proposal with me and go on with it in communication with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1043	We have seen from other complex, difficult issues in healthcare, and perhaps especially where there has been a professional disagreement, that such a consensus conference can create new knowledge and get a debate in the professional environment as well. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am satisfied with the approach that the Minister of Health has now taken in relation to Sahlgrenska. At least this question has led to something positive for the back patients in Norway, and to the fact that we can go a step further to improve this offer that, as the Minister of Health himself stated, has been under-priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1053	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In a Kosovar Albanian family in a refugee apartment in Narvik, a 3 year-old girl and her mother are being treated for tuberculosis. According to the media, UDI believes that the disease does not provide a humanitarian basis and will send the family out of the country. What is the medical/professional basis of the UDI for this decision and is the Council of State in agreement with the UDI assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1062	The Minister of Health has no role to play in this type of case, either in medical/professional aspects or in other aspects of the procedure. Nor is it up to the Minister of Health to assess the assessments made by the UDI in individual cases. In the light of the question asked by the representative, however, I have obtained information from the UDI on the handling of the case. It has been informed that the decision of the UDI has been appealed against and that the UDI will assess new information in the appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1069	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware of his lack of role in such matters, but here it is about the relationship between UDI and competent health assessments, and I noticed that the Council of State did not say anything about UDI's medical-professional basis for this decision. Tuberculosis requires, as is known, long-term treatment and follow-up, and the Central Tuberculosis Register, through the State Health Studies, has issued a notification that refugees and asylum seekers with tuberculosis should remain in Norway until treatment is completed. This has been done on the basis of several cases in which refugees and asylum seekers receiving tuberculosis are sent out of Norway. ‘This is medically and professionally irresponsible’, writes the Central Tuberculosis Register and the State Health Studies. Is the Council of State in agreement with this assessment from our top professional competence and will he ensure that the UDI relates to such medical/professional assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1080	I share the professional judgements that have come from the institutions to which it is referred and to which the Ministry of Health also has an administrative overall relationship. I have also made sure that the information and assessments expressed here have become UDI's knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1085	The history of tuberculosis has shown the importance of social and economic conditions even after drug treatment has been completed. In the case in question, the treating pediatrician advises that three-year-old Ilirida be returned to Kosovo. The Finnish doctor responsible for the UN Health Administration in Kosovo describes the treatment and follow-up of tuberculosis there as old-fashioned. UDI ignores or reviews these professional assessments as well, but in the light of the Council's positive answers to my main question, I hope he will ensure that the UDI for the future respects medical statements and other professional assessments that they themselves do not have the competence to review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1092	I have noticed the views of the representative Are Næss here. I must again stress that there is no formal role for the Minister of Health in dealing with such cases, nor can I go into any assessment of the conclusions that UDI comes to. However, it is not unnatural that I assure myself that the information available in the case has come to the knowledge of the handlers and duly assessed before the final decision in the review procedure falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1100	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Sun Ant MR Klinikk AS applied on 19 February 2001 for the establishment and operating authorisation of medical activities in Ålesund. The aim of the activities is to provide medical imaging by means of magnetic resonance imaging. [[MR]] Will the Council of State provide rapid approval for such an establishment for the benefit of its inhabitants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1109	The application referred to by the representative Nesvik is dealt with in accordance with the guidelines laid down in the regulation on medical laboratory and x-ray activities. It implies that it has been sent to the State Health Authority for an assessment of the requirements on the safety and medical aspects of the operation that Sunnmøre MR clinic intends to establish. State health surveillance has been granted a time limit for its assessment during the last half of May. I will not go into any proceedings for this application here and now. However, I can promise that the application will be treated in the same way as and with the same priority as other similar applications, and that a decision will be taken shortly after the health inspection assessments have been received.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1116	The reason I'm raising this case right now is that the last time I had more questions, it was Media 3 in Ålesund, where they also followed the so-called Rules of Procedure. It took many years for them to receive an answer to their application. This is a situation that you can't get back into. More and Romesdal have, as I said, per year. On 1 January, one MR machine at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, while in the county one has a population of almost 300,000 people. Does the Minister of Health think that this is a satisfactory offer for a population of about 300 000 people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1123	Firstly, I would like to assure you immediately that it is not relevant to a time of procedure for this case that is comparable to that for Medi 3s. I would like to show that when that matter came to my table for treatment, it was also dealt with. As I said, I will ensure that this matter is dealt with promptly as soon as the professional assessments to be made by the Health Authority are available. I am not of the opinion that the current offer, with the waiting times it involves in More and Romesdal, is satisfactory. That is also why this case is dealt with with with the priority it deserves, also in relation to other applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1130	I thank the Council of State for the answer and hope that this is a case that can have a positive outcome, so that it can benefit the people of Mora and Romesdal. Today there are approximately 40 MR machines in Norway. 16 of these are located in Oslo. Although some of the hospitals in Oslo have national functions, this is a very distorted distribution in relation to the Moors and Romesdal. Compared with Western Europe, this is among the worst MR coverage in this whole area. Then it's important to get an interaction between the private and the public, and I hope that the Council of State will look with positive eyes on the application that lies here, precisely in view of the population of the Moors and the Romsdal and the long waiting time, which is actually per. March 5 was 157 days. This is something we have to end up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1137	I am generally in favour of a good and effective interaction between the public health service and private actors also in this area, and I look with gentle eyes at all matters that can help to strengthen the overall capacity, for the benefit of the entire population and patients who need the study that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1145	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘The external passenger bridge financed by the ‘foreign billion’ has not been provided with the extent to which it is needed. Does the public hospital sabotage the patient treatment abroad adopted by the Stortinget, and what will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1154	Let me immediately stress that I have no reason to believe that public hospitals are ‘sabotaging’ the patient treatment system abroad. However, I agree with the Alvheim representative that the scheme has not yet been given the extent that it may seem necessary if, for example, we are talking about it. is based on the number of patients on waiting lists in Norwegian hospitals. I am therefore going to take the opportunity to say a little about how the scheme is set up, and what is done to make it work according to the assumptions. Immediately after Stortinget's decision on 14 November 2000, I asked the Rikstrygdeverket to establish a project organisation for the practical management of the scheme. It was operational on 15 January 2001. However, before the turn of the year, all county municipalities were attributed by the Ministry to the scheme and asked to refer patients who could be involved for treatment abroad. This has been followed up later with more detailed information and guidelines from the Rikstrygdeverket. It is my opinion that this arrangement by the Rikstrygdeverket and the Ministry has been satisfactory. It goes without saying that we depend to a large extent on hospitals, for example. to ensure that necessary patient data and other information are available before the patient can be referred to appropriate treatment abroad. The response from the county councils and hospitals was initially varying and rather pending. However, I would like to add that one would have to expect a cautious start-up of a new system, which had been put in place without any prior information, and which was partly disputed within the medical disciplines. In this context, there is also reason to recall that treatment abroad is a voluntary offer to patients. In my work on the scheme, I have met patients who have thanked for the offer, but said that they prefer to wait a little longer for treatment in Norwegian hospitals. We must respect that. And that doesn't mean that, for that reason, the scheme is of no value to the patient who still says no. Just knowing that there is an alternative is in itself valuable. However, patients prefer to wait, there may be some nuance of evaluations and mention of the waiting lists in Norwegian hospitals. Experience with treatment abroad is so far very good. There have been examples of unsatisfactory follow-up of patients on return to Norway, but I think this too is about entry problems. The Rikstrøgdeverket has since met with representatives of hospitals and health administration in most of the county municipalities in order to provide further information on the scheme and the experience. This has led to more references, and the Rikstrogdeverket expects a significant increase in the future. Agreements have been reached so far on the treatment of 4,500 patients in hospitals in Scandinavia and Germany, and negotiations are under way on agreements that will allow a total of 10,000 patients to receive treatment during this year. The choice of hospitals takes place in close cooperation with Norwegian specialists. I believe that the conditions have been well arranged for the scheme adopted by the Stortinget in November 2000 to work as intended and as intended. It is important that we have such a system, and we should work to further develop it from the experience gained, for the benefit of patients. At the same time, I recall my previous statements that we should have realistic expectations about the extent of patient treatment abroad. The offer is very important, but the most important thing must be to ensure that Norwegian patients receive the treatment they need, when they need it, in hospitals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1173	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased with the way this matter has been dealt with by the department and by the Rikstrygdeverket. Nevertheless, in the last few weeks, I have received almost daily messages from patients who are not referred to foreign treatment even if they want this. They actually feel the situation so that neither their own general practitioner nor their nearest hospital doctor is interested in, nor are they very negatively inclined to, refer to or write an application for treatment abroad. Then my first follow-up question to the Minister of Health: Where are these patients who meet such a position both at their general practitioner and at their nearest hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1182	First, I would like to say that we have now attributed the country's primary doctors and specifically informed about the possibilities for treatment abroad, so that they too, and not just hospitals and specialist health services, should be fully informed about and aware of the opportunities we have to refer to treatment abroad in cases where the waiting lists are either long or the competence of the Norwegian specialist health service is considered to be inadequate. I want to actively follow up the individual county councils or hospitals on the scope of referrals, among others. by comparing this with waiting time for hospital treatment. It's so useful to get all of the information that this refers to. First of all, it would probably be right for patients to contact the Swedish National Works Agency when they are in the situation to which the representative Alvheim refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1191	Once again, I thank the Council of State for a positive response. The fact is, as we have also heard earlier in the Questionnaire today, that the more patients we take out of the Norwegian Health Check so that they can return to work within a reasonable time, the more money the Norwegian society saves. Given that there are some 10,000 patients to be treated abroad, there is no insignificant means for Norwegian society to save by getting these patients out of the health queue — in addition to the purely human factor. Has the Minister of Health come up with any idea of how much savings can be made by spending DKK 1 billion on the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1200	I have not formed any opinion – at least not on an analytical basis – about it. What I have seen as the most important thing, has been getting an offer that works so that those who are on the waiting list, and have been standing there for too long, get this offer. I think that is important, regardless of the savings that may be in it. But, of course, I am aware of what Alvheim's representative refers to, that it also represents a good economy in cases where patients are treated this way more quickly and come back to normal life in Norway faster. But I have to say that it is not primarily the consideration of the kind of savings that have been motivating. The most important thing, and after all, is that we have a responsibility to provide Norwegian patients with the treatment they require as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1213	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The municipality of Rogaland is currently providing treatment before psychiatry to only 1.4 pst. of the members of the group children and young people. The target in the escalation plan is 5 pst. How my Council of State, Rogaland, will achieve this goal by 2006 and reach the height of counties that today have 3 pst. coverage, when Rogaland, after a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, does not have access to such a rapid escalation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1222	Like the other county municipalities, Rogaland County has a separate responsibility under the Special Health Services Act to provide children and young people with the necessary mental health protection services. I have to stress that this is a general responsibility, independent of the objectives and actions of the Preservation Plan for Mental Health. Through the escalation plan, the State grants additional grants to enable the county councils to discharge this responsibility more quickly and better. Today, there are considerable differences between states in the provision of services in the field of mental health. The greatest differences in offers to children and young people are: The differences are due, inter alia, to: different priorities from the counties of this field. Rogaland is among the most disadvantaged municipalities, which therefore have the biggest challenges in achieving the 5 pst coverage target. by the group of children and young people. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has now, with some comments, approved the plan of Rogaland County Council for the achievement of the objectives of the escalation plan. In the plan, the county council is involved in strengthening the provision of outpatient services to children and young people with the establishment of decentralised outpatient clinics and the necessary strengthening of daily services. The Ministry considers this main structure to be satisfactory and it can be used as a basis for further work. However, the Department has pointed out that outpatient services need to be more decentralised, and the number of outpatient jobs should be increased more than the plan suggests, if the goal of the escalation plan of coverage of 5 pst. to be reached. Approval of the plan implies that the county council will receive grants for operation on the basis of objective criteria. Furthermore, the county will receive grants for approved investment costs for priority construction projects. Subsidies for operations over the escalation plan are allocated according to the same key as the framework grants from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This implies that Rogaland County, in line with the other counties, will have its share of the assets in relation to, among other things, the State. Folk. Thus, the low coverage of the provision to children and young people is not taken into account when measuring operating grants. A stronger priority of this field by Rogaland during the remaining part of the escalation period will have to be taken into account until 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1237	I thank you for the answer, which is a thorough review of the Minister of Health's view of today's state. The answer gives rise to a call for a stronger commitment. So here are children and young people who are advised the most needed help for their mental health problems and who have to wait more than one year for help. It is on behalf of the young people, their relatives and the local community that are involved, I ask this question. I think today's situation is unacceptable. The escalation plan, as the Minister for Health says, should allow the county councils to move faster and better follow-up. The allocation of operational resources according to objective criteria is a problem for a state that has such a young and increasingly younger population. Will the Minister for Health take the initiative to review the criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1246	First of all, I can agree with what is being said here, that the situation is unacceptable. It is generally in the field of mental health protection in Norway, not just in Rogaland. That's the general situation. It was also the situation when Stortinget adopted a comprehensive escalation plan to bring the situation to a level that we could describe as acceptable over a period of eight years. It actually follows, as little as it can be heard, that until this plan is completed on the assumption, there will be unacceptable conditions in the field of mental health protection. It's a tragic situation, but I don't have a good answer on how to reasonably enforce the escalation beyond what has been decided by the Storting. It is a great task and a great responsibility to implement the plan of escalation that has been adopted. That's first priority now. Of course, I'm going to look at and evaluate other opportunities to get ahead faster, whether it's for Rogaland's part or others, but I can't promise anything here and now about how it can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1251	I am pleased with the broad support as it was in the Stortinget for the center government's proposal of a escalating plan that would go over eight years. I don't expect all problems to be solved in a few years. But in Rogaland, the situation is that the county is also high when it comes to child protection statistics. In numbers, one can actually compare with Oslo. The pre-child protection ratio may indicate that even before childhood and youth psychiatry, a higher than national average is needed, so the current escalation plan suggests that one will still be below the national average after eight years. The Minister of Health has now called for the government to take over the specialist healthcare services on the basis of the argument of more equivalent health services. Is it true that if he gets what he wants there, he's going to suggest another distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1258	It is not in the proposals that have now been promoted by the Storting for a state takeover of the specialist health service, nor is it a concrete proposal for a change in the criteria for the distribution of the funds resulting from the escalation plan for mental health protection. We will continue to assess the implementation of that plan to ensure that the best means are available to those who need it, around the country. It is not that something is completely locked in such a context. The most important thing, after all, is to get the most out of the funds for the benefit of the population and for the patients who need it, and in it is also that we need to see how we can best distribute the funds between the individual regions of the country. But besides that, I can't promise here a specific or a concrete change in relation to the plan that is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1266	This question, from the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1269	I have allowed myself to ask this question to the Minister for Social Affairs, but I am pleased that the Minister for Health answers: ‘From 1 January 2001, a proportion of computer equipment as a tool for disabled persons was introduced. Data equipment is important to compensate for a disability, to minimise the degree of disability and to learn to live with their disability in a dignified way. The proportion of ownership has resulted in many financial reasons that neither at school nor at home. Is the proportion contrary to the principle of free schooling in the Training Act and will the proportion of computer equipment be removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1278	The cancellation took a one-off charge of NOK 2000 per person. users when lending standard data equipment in connection with the 2001 government budget. The background was that such computer equipment has become so common that it was time to assess it in line with ordinary «white and brown products» at home, such as refrigerators, stoves, television receivers, etc. In general, no social benefits are provided for aids which are usually also used by people with no disabilities. The fee is paid on initial loans or the replacement of standard computer equipment. Emergency centres lend high-standard and long-term computers, so that there will be many years between each time the user has to pay this fee. After the decision to increase, it has been found that users, i.e. pupils, this one-off fee may be contrary to the Training Act. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has therefore contacted the Ministry of Church and Education in order to clarify this. The Ministry of Church and Education assumes that, to the extent that a benefit or a means is part of the fulfilment of the right to primary education, the aid shall be free of charge for the student. Similarly, higher education and secondary education are specifically organised for adults. On this basis, the Minister of Social Affairs has decided to reconsider the matter and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1289	I thank you for the answer and am pleased that this will be reviewed, and that it will then return to Stortinget. In what way it is to be done, I think we also need a debate on that. Being disabled with regard to writing is a major challenge, and mistreatment and inadequate treatment can be life-threatening. Then I think about the people with reading and writing disabilities in particular, which are some of the major consumers, because a large group of them borrow computer equipment. It is the school community and not the health service that diagnoses, treats and can affect the degree of disability in relation to the information and competence society that we are lawmaking, and it is very unfortunate that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health do not coordinate their actions for this group of disabled people. We've seen previous examples of that. Will the Council of State ensure that there is closer cooperation between the departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1296	The treatment now being applied to this case is an expression that, first of all, it must be acknowledged that there has not been a good enough coordination initially, but that there is now such coordination, which will also lead to this issue being re-evaluated, and it is presented to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. Whether it becomes in a balancing proposition later this year, or it will be in the context of the next year's budget, I cannot answer now, but at least it will be done in such a way that what has, if any, been made wrong in this matter will be corrected, so that there will be no harm or disadvantage to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1301	I am, as I said, pleased that it is the Minister of Health who answers, simply because part of the side effects of mistreatment and poor follow-up of those with specific reading and writing difficulties/dyslexia – as well as behavioral problems and learning difficulties as the most prominent – is also that you get mentally tired or depressed. This group is struggling to get this accepted and taken seriously, and these problems start very early in school. So I hope that the Council of State can also take it back and look at how it can be arranged in relation to both psychologists and psychiatrists, who should have knowledge of this type of disability. In addition, daily treatment services are available via the Internet, including: The government agency seems to be laying out more and more information in that way. It's a new barrier for this group. Will the Council of State take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1306	I am aware of the problems that the representative points to, here create for them, not least for children and young people with difficulty reading and writing and dyslexia. I am made further aware today of this exchange of words, and I promise that I will take the views that have come here, duly included in the further consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1314	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Asker and Bærums Budstikke, the head of the road in Akershus has found that he does not want to remove the line that the local population and the municipality of Bærum want for E16. It is also claimed that such an extension would delay significantly. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the solution requested by the municipality of Bærum and the local population is also provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1323	The planning of E16 between Wøyen and Bjørum has been based on an environmental audit of a previously approved municipal sub-plan. Statens vägvesen Akershus has developed a pre-project in several alternatives based on previous levels, but with several tunnels. Skui Well has launched an alternative proposal based on a long tunnel from Økri to Bjørum. In its Decision of 1 November 2000, the Bærum Presidency asked for further planning to be made in line with the approved municipal sub-plan for Wøyen-Bjørum, however, so that the lineing would follow Skui Vel’s proposal in the tunnel through the highest points of the terrain. The road authorities have included an adapted version of Skui Vel's proposal in the further planning, which is also adapted to the approved municipal sub-plan. The original proposal of Skui Vel will lead to higher plant and operating costs and also significantly deviates from the approved municipal sub-plan. This may lead to full impact assessment requirements, leading to delayed implementation of the project. Several solutions are now being considered. Final elections will be made by the municipality of Bærum, in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1334	I thank you for the answer, but I did not feel that the council replied to the question whether he could ensure that the plan as Skui Well stands behind, and as the local government has agreed, is also assessed. For one, the impression is that an assessment of different options, but that the option that is both environmentally friendly, takes into account the possible extension of road capacity, if necessary because the traffic base path, and also takes the best account of the environment in this area, does not seem to be assessed if the road manager does it as he pleases. And then my question is – I actually have to repeat it: will the Council of State make sure that the overall plan that Skui Vel has put behind, and which the local government has also been behind, is included in the further assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1346	According to my information, the road manager has taken this plan into account in his planning, and the main points of the plan are now in relation to the proposals the road manager presents in the regulatory planning context. It is not – as far as I have been informed – identical to the plan of the vault, but the most important points are included. What's important, of course, is to get two things. One is to get a line and a plan that you're satisfied with local politics, and of course also those who live in the area, at the same time it's very urgent to do something about E16. Then we have to combine this with the fact that we have to deal with the planning and building law. And then, of course, it's desirable to avoid a full impact assessment, because it will take a good deal of time. It's all these considerations the janitor is trying to consider at the same time. In the last round, it will also be the local authority in Bærum that will adopt the regulatory plan, and if it is so that the municipality has not been taken into account, it will clearly come to light in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1355	The problem is that if you don't take it seriously, and actually have the plan that Skui Vel has set himself behind, and that also the municipality has been behind, you don't have the option in Bærum City Council when they're going to be there and adopt this, so that it can actually take even longer before you can start building. Now the people in this area have been waiting for 18 to 20 years to get a real road, and I think they'll actually take on the tolerability they need to get a proper impact assessment of their options. It is better for the people to have a good, environmentally friendly and forward-looking option than an option that makes it hard for them to live with in many generations to come. So I want to end by urging the Minister of Transport to ask the head of the road to take along the complete plan that the municipality of Skui Vel and Bærum are behind, for its people and for its future part.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1362	It is almost alarming to ask for an investigation into a plan that requires a new impact assessment, because it will take another two years. And I'm extremely concerned that we're getting something done about the conditions around E16, because the population there, among other things. through actions have marked their desire for rapid progress in this project. We have to be able to combine it with taking into account the main considerations of the plan presented by Skui Vel, in order to bring the plan to an end in the local government. The head of the road has added that. I trust that he will also base it on further work towards the treatment of the regulatory plan, with a view to finding a good solution in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1370	My question also goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘In a report prepared by SINTEF on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, it is unequivocally stated that both business and socio-economically a new freight terminal will be located to Leangen in Trondheim unremunerated. This means that the premises given by the Railway Agency to the Ministry of Transport and the Storting are misleading. A new freight terminal at Leangen is and has been very conflicty, and now, at the top of everything, it turns out to be unprofitable, will the Council of State take the initiative to scrape the project once and for all?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1379	In the final phase of the work of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011, the Railway Agency raised doubts as to the profitability and timing of the movement of freight terminals from Brattöra to Leangen. The Ministry of Transport chose in the transport plan to assume that the freight terminal would be moved, but announced that the Railway Agency would review the project, in close cooperation with the Statens vägvesen and Trondheim municipality. In the review, the Railway Agency concluded that the timing of investment in new terminals in the Leang should be postponed and re-examined in the revision of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. The railway works consider that, on the basis of an isolated railway professional assessment, it is not rational to build a new freight terminal now, as long as the capacity of Brattóra is considered satisfactory, and in conjunction with other high priority rail tasks. However, the railway station underlines that the Leang is maintained as a location option. The movement of the freight terminal must be seen in the context of the construction of the Nordre relief road in Trondheim. The proposed road solution assumes that railway tracks released on Brattøra during the movement of the freight terminal shall be used for road transport. Therefore, when assessing the choice of solutions, a freight terminal cannot be considered in isolation, as is done in the SINTEF report, which is the background to the questions raised by the representative, Djupedal. That reassessment shows that a deferral of the transfer would incur additional costs for the North Sea Route of 220 million. kr when choosing a temporary road solution. I believe that such a depreciation of the project in order to postpone the investment in a new freight terminal is a poor social economy. I would also point out that it would be very unfortunate for the municipality of Trondheim if there were uncertainties about the movement of the freight terminal and the implementation of the North Route, which is the main environmental and urban development project in the Trondheim package. On this basis, the Ministry of Transport, in a letter of 25 April 2001, requested that, in the final establishment of its programme of action for the period 2002-2011, the Railway Agency commit funds for the construction of new freight terminals in Leangen according to the initial assumptions of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1392	What comes out in the Council's response is that a freight terminal on the Leang should not be built. If you are to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in a freight terminal that is both economically unprofitable and economically unprofitable, and for which the Railway Agency at the top of everything says that they do not need – at least not before 2008, perhaps at a later stage – but it is to be built because a road called the North Road is planned, this will turn the arguments upside down. What we have to take into account is whether it's the case that a freight terminal located in Leangen meets the goals that society, Trondheim City and the district need. Many of the premises given for locating on Leangen have subsequently proved to be wrong. It is constantly expanding in relation to what is going to lie on the Long, and is becoming increasingly in conflict with all residents and traders in this area. That means that for Trondheim and for the Railway Agency, it would then be best to find an alternative location, and there have been many different proposals. The Storting has chosen to support the construction of Leangen, which is very unfortunate. I understand your point now that the Minister for Transport agrees that both business and socio-economic should not be built on Leangen, but that there are other reasons why it should be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1397	My answer did not show that I said that the freight terminal at Leangen would be unprofitable. On the other hand, it appeared from my reply that the Railway Agency has stated that it is not profitable now. On the other hand, it is obvious that Brattöra has limitations over time. There is no doubt that if you really want to bet on getting goods off the road on the track, you have to bet on nodes. It is necessary to focus on the development of terminals in Trondheim as well as elsewhere. That's what this is about. There's been a long fight in Trondheim, and it's obvious that that fight isn't over. This has also been reflected, among others. the municipal elections. I assume that it has been decided locally that the freight terminal is to be located to Leangen. I have no doubt that building a freight terminal in Trondheim will over time strengthen rail transport. I see it that if you don't aim to do that, the opposite will happen, and I thought I had a federal trap in the Socialist Left Party in developing this. The time has to be seen in the light of the North Route, and I am afraid that a postponement is a permanent postponement. That's why we have to choose, and we have to choose the socio-economic best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1407	With all due respect, I guess I'm going to have to say that there's a little bit of a little bit of a stick here. What emerges is that this project is socially and economically unprofitable. That's what it's about on this location, on this conflict filled plot called the Leang. I fully agree with the Minister for Transport that Mid-Norway needs a new freight terminal, but it is a little ahead of time. That means you have to think carefully about which location you actually want. This location proposed at the Leangen has been proposed there for a single reason. It's a long, straight stretch that makes it possible to empty a whole train at the same time. There are other straight lines, if that's the main reason. When it is so unequivocally stated that this choice of land is both conflict-filled and socio-economic and business-economically unprofitable, but uses a road project to justify the use of hundreds of millions on a freight terminal that is not even needed before 2008, then the Minister of Transport has a very bad case. I would have liked him to re-examine with the municipality of Trondheim and the railway company how to work together to find a solution, for the benefit of the railway, but also for the benefit of residents and businessmen in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1412	What I said in my main answer is that it's socio-economically unprofitable to wait to build the terminal, because it's going to cost the road project Northway, which, incidentally, it's a huge upturn. Otherwise, I am pleased that we agree that there will be a terminal in Middle Norway. So the representative Djupedal says that the restrictions on Brattöra are a little ahead of time. I am absolutely sure that the representative Djupedal knows better than I do how long one has discussed the location of the freight terminal for the railway in Trondheim. If you're going to spend the time you've used so far to get to the Leang, to figure out an alternative, it's hardly going to be in our time. I aim to do something about rail transport in our time, and then I see that this is the way to go now, both for the railways in the longer term and also in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1422	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Criteria on State resources for public transport by sea place emphasis on kilometres travelled and not on the number of people transported or on the cost of rushing. AS Nesodden-Bundefjord Steamship Company transported last year 2.6 million collective travellers on Oslofjord, to a large extent rush time travel. Due to the State criteria, this type of driving is not supported. Does the Council of State wish to contribute to more public transport on the Oslofjorden, and will the Council of State consider the criteria for allocation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1431	In the framework transfers to county municipalities, expenditure related to local scheduled services is broken down by six criteria, including ‘number of kilometres of grid at sea’. The question refers to the fact that this criterion contributes to the discrimination of sea routes in central routes with many passengers. In my opinion, a look at the overall impact of all the criteria, as the different criteria go in different directions. As an example, I can refer to the criterion ‘number of inhabitants’, which in this case draws in a different direction from the one referred to in the question. The representative Lind asks if I will contribute to more public transport at Oslofjorden. As you know, the responsibility for operating local routes in our system is assigned to county municipalities. I must therefore ask for understanding that I cannot take a decision on questions relating to specific routes. However, the State has a responsibility to ensure the economy of the counties so that they are able to provide the population with decent collective services. In this context, I would like to refer to the strengthening of the local economy to which this government has contributed. With regard to the criteria included in the route section of the cost key for the framework transfers to the county municipalities, the Government of the Municipal Economic Proposition for 1997 announced that it would initiate investigation work in this area. An orientation on the status and further progress of this work will be provided in the 2002 municipalproposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1440	I thank you for the positive answer. I interpret it in such a way that the Council of State will provide these criteria with an assessment in the 2002 Community economicproposition. I assume that such a review will be based on the desire and goal of being able to travel as much as possible collectively. Indeed, many people depend on the functioning of the collective service in their everyday lives, and it has a price to live with. Especially in the Oslo and Akershus regions, we know that rush-time problems, queues on the roads, make the functioning of collective services absolutely crucial. Nesodden-Bundefjord Steamship Company is in a very special situation. It is the company in the country that carries the most public travellers, and Nesodden is the municipality that has decided the highest collective share in the whole of Norway. It says something about the perspective in relation to bets on boat traffic at Oslofjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1447	I would like to reiterate from my main response that, in the proposition announced in the context of the 2002 Community Economic Proposition, we will come up with the status of this work that was started after the 1997 notification. What we're aiming at in this work further is to provide all collective support so that we get as much as possible of collective means of transport. So we have to go through all the support arrangements in a short time, with the aim of arranging them so that we can stimulate new passengers, and not least ensure that we carry the current passengers in a good way, either by improving existing routes or by providing routes so that we can achieve this goal. Of course, this will be particularly important in our most populous areas, and that is not least this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1455	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Between Rena and Hamar, NSB has been driving by bus as a replacement for the daily 8 train departures since the beginning of March. This will end around 30 April 2001. Does the Council of State see this bus offer to travellers who are so interesting that he can expect to continue this in the future, as buses are often better and not least more flexible on some travel routes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1464	The reason why the NSB has been driving a bus for a short period of time instead of a local train between Rena and Hamar is related to the fact that train agents currently operating on the Rørosbanen had to be moved for a shorter period to the Dovrebanen in order to control the traffic on the Jessnes-Rudhögda route while the signalling system at the Brumunddal station has been inoperative. From today – 2 May – all trains are driven on the Rørosbahn according to the route timetable. As notified in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National Transport Plan 2002-2011, in the context of the conclusion of a new framework agreement with NSA BA, the Ministry will carry out a detailed assessment of the purchase by the State of regional and local passenger transport services for the period 2002-2005. In this context, it would also be natural to consider the routes for which the bus can be a good alternative in relation to trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1471	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as positive for the travellers, by making a detailed assessment of the state's purchase of passenger transport services. What is important is that travellers receive the best possible offer. This must include, inter alia: include fares, frequency of departures, flexibility, safety and several things. There have been positive signals from some of the travellers during the period during which the bus has replaced eight train departures daily on the route Rena-Hamar. Has the State Council recorded similar signals in this case or, where appropriate, in other similar situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1476	Let me first point out that even though the NSB has set up a bus for a period of time, that in itself will not be an argument to convert from train to bus. There must be a total review of what is most useful for passengers and for society, when deciding whether to transport people by train or by bus. But in any case, it is my goal that we have to get as many people from private cars to public transport. I like to see that we can build on the train, but it's obvious that as an alternative to the private car, the bus is a long way to go, as it's best to get people on public transport, both for environmental reasons and not least for road safety and therefore for passengers themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1483	I would like to thank the Council once again for its positive signals. I have been presented with figures – but I can not go well for them, unfortunately – that for the costs of the passenger trains in this case, one could have had approx. 10 more, i.e. 18, bus departs 24 hours a day. I emphasize that I can't go good for these numbers. Can the Council of State suggest that there may be a lack of correctness in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1490	It's very demanding to confirm the lack of realism, because it almost has to be that either it's right or it's not right. But I want to confirm that we want to go in and look at the costs. It's an important side of it, as well as it's an important side to looking at what serves passengers in order to get the totality that we want, that's a good collective offer that people want to use. Then it's also about doing that we spend the money the best way. But I want to add that it is in and of itself no goal in itself to spend the least possible money on public transport. The goal must be to get the most to travel collectively, and then in a convenient, good and efficient way. It must be the main objective, not necessarily to spend the minimum amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1502	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Sunde-Ranavik-Leirvik ferry service in Sunnhordland has had a dramatic increase in standing cars. On April 25, there were a total of 70 remaining cars. Both the Triangular connection and the opening of the Folgefonn tunnel will produce even greater growth on this link. HSD has tender contracts as a one-year liability. Is the Council of State agreed with me that there should be room for flexibility, so that the company can deploy material that provides greater capacity if traffic developments so require?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1511	The statistics for the first quarter of this year, which is the most recent available, show a slight increase in the number of vehicles for this ferry link compared to the same period last year. The shipping company has registered that 0.7 pst. of the vehicles did not arrive with the first take-off. In ferry services as such, the aim is to complete traffic by less than 3 pst. the remaining vehicle. For this year, the shipping company and the State Road Administration have agreed to a minor increase in the route offer Fridays-Sundays from 1 May and the rest of the year. Neither this nor any other tender has been made by the Road Administration with the shipping companies, preventing adjustments to the route offer when traffic changes. Tenders also do not prevent the change of ferry if traffic changes make this necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1518	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, because what has gone out to the inhabitants of the Kvinnherad region is simply that there is a risk of reduced capacity. And even if you haven't had a growth, and even if you have a target of 3 pst, which you can accept, it's quite dramatic for those who live in the Women's Heater and travel on that connection and depend on it, that they have to stand again. When one gets so strong that one has 70 cars in one day, and one gets an increase from the first three months last year, from 219 to 353, is one in a way with and rejects car traffic. We see a pattern of development with the Folgefonn tunnel where more and more people will cross the Women's Heater to get to the southern parts of the county. But it's most dramatic for those who live there, and who depend on this ferry connection. But if the Council of State says that there are possibilities to deploy capacity, does he know if there is a signal from the Road Office in Hordaland to HSD that they have that possibility if they want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1525	Let me first say that what happened on April 25th, I've tried to get it clean, but it's actually so that because there were a lot of people who were just busy opening the triangle connection, it just hasn't been time to get the answers to what happened that day. I'd like to get back to it if there's anything special. So to the representative's specific questions. Yes, it is possible to both smoke ferries and change the route offer, but it must of course be based on a concrete assessment of how many have remained – as I said in my main response, 1st quarter 0.7 pst. But it is obvious that the road office must and will follow developments in the future, and I assume that we will also receive the information I give here, that it is possible with the kind of flexibility and smoking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1532	I'm very pleased with that clarification, because this is a very positive signal to give the inhabitants of the Women's Heath. I also expect one to update HSD on their capabilities. Now I don't know what happened on 25 April, if it was something special, but in my contact with the company I was told that it was so dramatic that day – I was going to try to get some numbers out – and that is in a way unacceptable. So I am happy to try this connection tomorrow. Then I'll see if I'll be one of those people who'll be standing again – but that gives us the deep hope that I won't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1544	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘I am aware that the aim is to transmit the landfill proposal Ringeriksbanen – abbreviation of Bergensbanen in the spring session. I am also aware that a letter of 11 March from the ‘Environment in Our Town’ to the Ministry of Transport pointed out several errors in the investigation work that had been carried out and that important information in the proceedings had not been sent out at public hearings to the relevant authorities. On this basis, does the Council of State consider that it is appropriate to promote this matter in the spring session?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1553	Following the adoption by the Stortinget of its decision of 4 November 1996 on the further planning of the Ringeriksbahnen, the Railway Agency has carried out a comprehensive and thorough master plan investigation for two corridors for the Ringeriksbanen: over Kroksund and via Åsa. The railway system informs that the planning work has complied with the Planning and Building Act as regards requirements for transparency, information, cooperation, participation and consultation processes. As regards quality assurance, this has been implemented for traffic forecasts, cost estimates and socio-economic analyses. In view of the quality assurance of the cost estimates and the socio-economic calculations, a revision of the cost-benefit calculations was carried out in autumn 2000. Further review of the material will be carried out before the case is brought before the Stortinget. Viewed in the light of the extensive investigation work carried out, including the self-imposed external quality assurance of the Railway Agency and the fact that the process itself has been carried out under the Planning and Building Act, the Ministry of Transport is so far of the opinion that the matter has been adequately clarified that it is now possible to decide on the trasé corridor to be used for the further work on the Ringeriksbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1564	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I cannot understand the urgency of this matter, as it is not the priority of the majority of the Stortingen National Transport Plan 2002-2011, and there have been objections to the crossroads over Kroksund. The trail over Åsa is also problematic. Questions have also been raised about three tunnels in the area of Vestmarka-Krokskogen-Nordmarka, each of which has a length of two separate runs. Is this cost-effective, and does the Council of State find it reasonable to bet on a new route when the problems with those we have are in line with security?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1571	In my opinion, it is important to clarify the corridor and the trajectory of the Ringerix Railway, precisely because the surrounding municipalities are to be given a good basis for land planning, and it is obvious that the zoning of areas that we experience as long as there are unexplained conditions around the Ringerix Railway, is in no way of the good for the municipalities. That's why it's important and right to clarify the trajectory. Then it's also right and important to put this route in priority in relation to the other challenges we have. And then, as previously announced, we have come to the conclusion that it will be put into priority after the expansion of double tracks to Asker. I would also like to stress that even though it may seem relatively long before these are completed, in ten years' time, I think it is important to have the planning going on also on the Ringerix track.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1578	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. What's really my main problem is that the Ringerix track might cost about 5-6 billion dollars, and that we have problems with safety on the existing track. But I assume that the Council of State will give priority to safety on the existing track in front of new sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1585	As previously announced, we will come to the Stortinget with the follow-up of the Groth Commission after the Åsta accident and in that context provide the Stortinget with a broad basis for discussion of safety issues on the railway both in the short term and in the longer term. At the same time, long-term investment is one of the most important things we can do in terms of railway safety, as new, good routes will increase the level of safety on the roads in general. So this is in the longer term in and separately not a contradiction ratio. We need to bet on some short-term security measures now, but in the longer term, investing in new railway lines in itself will be a good safety measure, not least in bringing even more people from road traffic to rail traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1593	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Midders are authorised to search for dead persons at sea. The current situation is that each police district assesses the equipment to be used and when it is to be deployed. Does the police, in the opinion of the Council of State, have the competence to request equipment for the search of the deceased at sea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1602	The police have always been responsible for searching for dead people on land, in lakes and watercourses. Furthermore, the police have an obligation to take care of found equals and an obligation to inform relatives. In addition, the police may investigate the cause of an accident, regardless of whether there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. After the establishment of a separate marine search scheme, I considered it right – in the interests of overall responsibility – that the police were also responsible for this scheme. The police officers in Stavanger and Bodø, who are also the heads of the Head Rescue Center in South Norway at Sola and the Head Rescue Centre in North Norway in Bodø, respectively, are assigned to manage the search system. The scheme entered into force on 1 January of this year and includes, inter alia: Norwegian territorial waters, watercourses and lakes as well as the international sea areas declared responsibilities for Norwegian rescue services. The individual police officer heads the search for work within his own police district, while the police officers in Stavanger and Bodø lead and coordinate search for the deceased in the Norwegian rescue service area outside the territorial waters. In complex and/or lengthy searches, the police chief will gain independent professional expertise from other public agencies, private companies and institutions. A specific competent management will be appointed and own task descriptions will be established. In addition, the main rescue centre or local rescue centre will ensure that all relevant information from any prior rescue operation is provided to the relevant police officer as soon as possible, and the police officers in Stavanger and Bodø will have an overview of available resources at all times. Against this background, it is my opinion that the police are well prepared and have sufficient competence to lead the work in search of the dead at sea. I also show that the Police Directorate will shortly issue guidelines for the search for the deceased. The purpose of the guidelines is to describe the scope of the search scheme and provide detailed information on management and responsibilities, operational and financial assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1615	I thank the Council of State for the answer. KNM ‘Tyr’ has done an excellent job in connection with the ‘Sleipner’ accident. The last search for the deceased shows a tendency for an uncritical use of the KNM ‘Tyr’. It may seem that this is done to make the power of action visible, but in many cases it is not an optimal use of resources. The Minister of Justice has considered linking himself to a competent adviser or a coordination committee to obtain an overall assessment of the implementation of the search and use of equipment, etc. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1622	Sometimes searching for a deceased person is not a difficult task. If a car is driving outside a bridge, it is a simple task. When a boat like ‘Sleipner’ goes down, it is a difficult task. Therefore, we need to have some different arrangements, depending on how complicated the search is. So that's why we in the guidelines to be sent out of the Police Directorate in a short time, for example. will stress the need for the police chief to acquire independent professional expertise in cases where there is a complex search. And that's just to take care of what a driver does when a man starts searching for a deceased.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1627	Question 19 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1633	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Recently, attention has been paid to the fact that there may be a link between radiation from high voltage lines and health problems. In the municipality of Hareid, a power line is planned to go in the air several dozen meters from the construction site in Vadbakken and through a bird reserve with national status. There's a lot of local resistance to the planes. Will the Council of State, with the background of local resistance and maintaining the precautionary principle, contribute to the installation of the line in the earth cable, as desired?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1642	On 7 November last year, Norway's watercourse and energy directorate granted permission to Tafjord Kraftnett AS and Tussa Nett AS to build a power transfer of 132 kV from Nørve in Ålesund via Sula and Hareid municipalities to the Hareidseidet in Ulstein municipality. The NVE has received complaints on its decision. On the basis of the complaints, the NVE did not find a basis for amending the concession decision and therefore sent the matter to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for further consideration on 20 February this year. Representatives from the Ministry of Oil and Energy had a regular meeting with the complainants on Wednesday and Thursday of the previous week. The ministry will start dealing with this matter now, and we will consider all the questions raised by the complainants. In connection with this process, the Department will consider whether additional information is needed. Otherwise, the Ministry uses the management strategy for the use of earth cables provided to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 19 for 2000–2001 and to which the Storting joined in the treatment of Inst. S. No 67 for 2000-2001. The strategy includes, inter alia: all cabling requirements are based on a judgement, with particular emphasis on the relationship between environment, aesthetics and costs. When it comes to health issues, the Ministry adopts the recommendations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the State's radiation protection at all times with regard to power lines and electromagnetic fields. I refer here to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 propose that there was no basis for changing the management strategy for this area, to which the Stortingen joined in the course of the treatment of St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98, cf. Inner. S. No 252 for 1997-98. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will normally contact the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on health issues and the Ministry of Environment on environmental issues. I hope that the representative of Kongshaug understands that I can't go into what might be the outcome of the complaint today until we have had this matter for careful consideration in the department. But I can guarantee that we're working closely on the case. I have had personal contact with the inhabitants and others involved, including the spokesperson in the municipality. I take seriously the concerns they express. From the Department's side, we'll keep the pressure on this, so that both the builders and the builders can clarify this matter as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1659	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that he will not deal with the matter in this Chamber in advance. What is the case is that the power line is planned to be built through a nature reserve that is protected at kgl. Resolution, having the status of national value. It goes right enough already an old line through the bird reserve, it was built before the area was saved, but the new line will go parallel to the old one, and it will be a 50-60 meter gate. The dispensation of a ground cable is understandable, but the establishment of a power line is absolutely contrary to the protection purpose of the plan. Does the Council agree that if this project is implemented as planned, it will undermine respect for peaced areas and that it may have adverse consequences not only for this area but also in similar cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1668	Of course, there are guidelines for physical intervention in an area with the type of protection we are talking about here. In the work to be done by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we will therefore have close dialogue with the Ministry of Environment, so that these guidelines are followed up. Then again I will ask for understanding that I cannot be more concrete than I am today, simply because this is going to be a thorough work. This work would be limited if the Council of State already gave the answer to what would be the final result of that treatment. But the questions raised here by the representative will of course be taken very seriously in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1675	I believe that the Council of State has an understanding of the principal aspects of the matter. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the following: The local government has always insisted that the line must pass the construction site in ground cable. In large parts of the neighbouring municipality, the transmission is planned as a ground cable. Estimates show that the extra costs per the household of this impact will amount to between 50 and 100 kr per. years. Does the Council of State not consider it unreasonable that the Norwegian authorities should impose on a community such negative environmental impact and aesthetic impact on such a relatively small savings as this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1684	Unfortunately, the costs of earth cables are more expensive than by air voltage, otherwise these problems could often be solved in a much simpler way. But there's a system that allows you to also apply a cable, where you find that it's the best way to do this. In this way, of course, the costs will be taken into account for the builders, but not least for the negative effects of any air voltage. That procedure will also be followed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1692	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The Bishop of Bjørgvin had completed his position as a new judge in Bergen on 27 December 2000. Four months have passed and no appointment has yet been made in the Council of State,’ — there should have been a small adjustment here — ‘with the practical difficulties involved, both for the office and for the applicants. What is the reason why the appointment has not yet been made?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1701	The appointment has been made. We appointed a new judge in Bergen in the State Council on Friday 27 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1706	I am aware of this relationship. The question was submitted last Wednesday. But the problem that lies below the question is equally unresolved. As far as I understand it, this was a completely curative appointment matter. There was no disagreement. There was no special need for investigations. Does not the Council of State think that four months is a reasonable period of time before an office is filled, and does it not show that there are features of our current church system that make the Church’s practical working conditions unnecessarily difficult in some contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1713	The problem to which the representative for pay refers has been solved. We've added a new domprost in Bergen, so there's no problem. With regard to the question of church order, I am aware that the Right has a different view than the Workers' Party on it. If it had taken longer or less time to appoint one in that kind of position with another scheme, the alternative arrangements you have for that type of appointment are entirely dependent on. It's been four months. But it is not that there is some automatic in that a bishop's setting for a new domprost is automatically followed in the Council of State. A treatment must be carried out. We started with it after New Year's, and then we made the appointment right over Easter. So I think the case is solved for the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1720	The question has not been reported because I feared that Bergen would not get a new judge. I actually figured that the city would get. However, I would like to repeat the question: does the Council of State consider it reasonable that four months should be spent by the Ministry on a non-controversial appointment case, which has no complications, and where does the final appointment actually follow the decision of the bishop? I would like to ask more precisely whether it is right that the real complication in this case is the provision in the Basic Law Section 12 which says that at least half of the members of the Government must be members of the Norwegian Church in order for the King's council to be able to function in church matters, and that this causes significant practical problems for the current government because you only fill the quota with a margin of one. And if this is the real problem, which has made this issue difficult, does the Council agree with me that the Constitution § 12 is an anachronistic provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1729	As I said, although a bishop has made a proposal, an assessment must be made. There were different views from different church bodies also in the diocese, so we had to make an assessment. Whatever the suspension, the state council is responsible for the appointment and is responsible for it. So saying that the matter is uncontroversial, gets the representative to pay the salary. I can also say that it was not particularly controversial for us either, but that an assessment was made, it was. The existence of the requirement in the Constitution of the number of government members who are members of the State Church is closely linked to the State/Church problem. I know that the Right has a different view. But when we need a church council, we have a good chance in the government to get to it, so it's no problem to get the councils of the Church Council together.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1740	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The size underlined in Innst. S. No 78 for 1998-1999 on the reform of competence for higher education to remain free of charge. At the University of Bergen, basic art history and media science are now offered as distance learning and sub-disciplinary education in the health economy in the evening in return for payment. The courses are targeted at individual students and cost between NOK 15 000 and NOK 21 000. Does the State Council believe that the University of Bergen has the opportunity to impose tuition fees on these courses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1749	In examining the 1999 budget proposal, the Stortinget endorsed the proposal that institutions under the Law on Universities and Higher Education should be able to take part in the participation of students for studies, cf. Budget-in-one. S. No 12 for 1998-99. At the same time, the Storting authorised the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research to provide detailed guidance. On this basis, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research established guidelines for self-payment in circular F-006-00. As an underlying premise, the question of self-payment is that Norwegian higher public education should normally be free of charge. In the setting up of the skills reform, this was established as a general principle, and it was assumed that no self-payment is to be made by, for example: adults using educational services aimed at those seeking education in general. The rules on self-payment only provide for the possibility to make an own-payment for study offers other than basic appropriations and set targets for the activities of the institution. Consequently, a number of course arrangements and decentralised study services are offered free of charge because there is room for this within the allocated budget framework and the target figure associated with it. It is a clear premise that access to self-payment studies is practised in a way that is not at the expense of institutions' educational services aimed at students receiving initial education, or the traditional research and teaching obligations of universities and colleges. The courses offered at the University of Bergen to which Rolf Reikvam refers are part-time courses intended for professionals. The courses in media science and art history are clearly differentiated from the ordinary basic studies at the University of Bergen, both in terms of the study structure and the target group. The 10-weights course in the health economy is a course specifically organised for professionally trained health professionals and other health professionals. These courses are not funded by the University's basic appropriations, but by tuition fees. In my view, it is good that public schools demonstrate the ability to use new online teaching methods and that the offers are differentiated. As I see it, this is a successful example of the University of Bergen and other state educational institutions caring for the new tasks and challenges of continuing education, within the framework of the Ministry of Education, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1764	I thank you for your answer. I perceive that the two courses at the University of Bergen we are talking about here can be taken for a tuition fee. But then I have to go back to the competence reform, Innst. S. No 78 for 1998-99, where the Church, Education and Research Committee was fully aware that higher education at public educational institutions should remain free of charge. That is the main principle, and we must stick to it. And then a unanimous committee also says, ‘No self-payment shall be made for adults who benefit from training provision aimed at educational applicants in general.’; There can be no doubt that these two courses that I have advanced here – I could certainly find other courses at other educational institutions, it was by chance that these two courses – were aimed at educational applicants in general. This has been marketed to most people, to ordinary Norwegian citizens, and it has to give weights, and these weights can be included in an overall competence, so this is obviously clear basic education. I then perceive the Council of State so that he believes that it is possible to make a self-payment for basic education that is to a degree at the universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1776	What has been established by the Stortinget and then the Ministry of Church, Education and Research is that Norwegian higher public education should normally be free of charge. This was, as the representative Rikham says, established as a general principle in dealing with the reform of competences. No self-payment shall be made, for example: adults taking an educational offer aimed at those seeking education in general. But it's open to taking off payments for special study offers. The assumption is that there is a study offer other than basic appropriations and that the institution’s activities are measured. There shall be very special course arrangements which are not financed within the university's normal operation. According to the information we hold in relation to the specific courses requested by the representative, Rikvam, they are within this regulatory framework. Two discussions remain. Either we can discuss whether the legislation is wrong and that should have changed. That principle has been joined by the Storting. But then we have it concretely, whether these courses are within the regulatory framework. I am open that if you find a course that is being used incorrectly, you have to correct it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1785	This really raises more questions. First, the Council of State uses the term ‘normal’. What is an ‘abnormal course’? That's the first thing I want to ask the Council of State questions about, and that he's also problematic about. I want to perceive the courses that we're talking about here as a normal course at the institution. The special thing is that they're offered as web education, they're targeting people in general. People sign up, and they have to pay. This is normal basic education. The second question goes not only to the Council of State, but perhaps as much to the Storting. Int. S. No 78 for 1998-99 we were clear that basic education should be free of charge. We have also opened up so that in special cases one can charge for this type of course. The question is: does the Council of State perceive that there is a conflict between what a majority of the Storing said in the Innst? S. No 78, and what was said in the budget position? Is there a conflict here? It is important to know if he perceives it so that there is a conflict here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1792	No, I do not see that there is any conflict between what the Stortinget said in the position of the competence reform, and what is in the budget decision that I referred to. Both have the underlying principle that higher education in Norway should normally be free of charge. But we've given the institutions the opportunity to charge for some special rates, which I've referred to in the past. And of course, it has to be checked that each price at which this option is used actually meets the criteria set for the use of this type of financial instrument. Then you can discuss whether any higher public education should be free of charge. In that case, I think our public education institutions would be out of competition with all private individuals offering courses on the continuing education market. Here we have to be able to get to both of them. We need a generally free public education offer for higher education, but at the same time provide institutions with the opportunity to enter the continuing education market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1799	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1813	The reason for this interview is that I have been contacted by a number of people who have been injured during their work in the healthcare system. The common denominator for all of these enquiries is that it takes a very long time to get compensation paid, while many people feel completely left to themselves, in a constant fight against the insurance giants. Another major problem is that the system, as it works today, in which the insurance companies' own appointed and paid specialists try to oversee other specialists, causes the occupational victims to feel suspicious despite the fact that the only thing these people have done is to be injured while doing a job in the healthcare system. Many of those who come into this situation experience that the security they thought they had through the local authorities' insurance schemes in the event of any damage proves to be a lonely, year-on-year dispute over compensation with the insurance company in question. I want to use one of the letters I have received as an example indicative of what many have experienced. Being exposed to a professional injury is turning its back on life. From being a healthy worker, one ends up in a health service investigation. Many opinions, from different therapists, can make this a big impression for the injured. One becomes a throwball in the system. Both of the two who have written this letter to me have been brutally attacked by psychotic, aggressive patients in psychiatry. After the damage, the employer – which in this case is a county municipality – signed a claim notice and forwarded it to the social security office and to a brokerage firm with which they had rented services. The social security issue is fairly easy to get through, and the disability pension is a fact. The brokerage company, on the other hand, remains in place, pending a solution between the injured and the insurance company. At this stage, the employer has been quite silent. Soon four years have passed since the damage occurred, and the employer has not made contact at all. The employer has insured his employees for all kinds of injuries. The insurance company appoints its own lawyers and doctors, and in many cases they review all the opinions of the handling bodies that you have undergone after the damage has occurred. The result of this is that a tenant brings in a private lawyer to get a proper procedure – a lawyer simply does not do this himself. This also costs money. These two persons further write that the workers are organised in large organisations. It seems that the trustees are not sufficiently informed about the proceedings in such cases. From being a happy and healthy worker, one remains ruined, both economically and healthably. The situation these people are in is unfortunately not unique, but turns out to be the case for a lot of people. I would like to challenge the Council of State to answer whether these are known issues, and in that case, what is being done to bring about a legislation that is such that those who are injured during their work in the health care system do not have to undergo a year-long process to obtain compensation that is allegedly entitled to? Another question that one has only to ask about these matters is: What responsibility do the municipalities and county councils have as an employer for these persons in order to follow up these cases and, if necessary, to assist, so that the injured worker does not stand alone in the fight against a large insurance company which initially does not want to pay more than the maximum necessary? This is the starting point for many things. Does the Council of State consider that the municipalities do not have such a responsibility even if it is the municipalities that sign the insurance for their employees? Is it not a disclaimer from local authorities just to hire services from a brokerage company so as not to do anything further for the employee who has been injured? This is a matter of very fundamental importance for the many thousands who work in the public health sector in Norway. Finally, in this article, I would like to ask whether the Council of State will initiate work to address these issues, so that they will not be able to arise in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1832	The representative Nesvik points to key issues relating to the possibilities for workers to obtain claims in occupational injuries. The person who has suffered a professional injury should be assured of a sound, sound and, in particular, effective procedure. This means that the injured party is to be paid the compensation that he or she is entitled to under the law, without having to wait unreasonablely long for the decision and without the process until a decision is made, is neither heavy nor burdensome. The current system of occupational injury coverage is not satisfactory with respect to this objective. In Norway, we have two schemes which give the right to cover both occupational and occupational injuries, which are assimilated to occupational injuries. Firstly, the People's Security Act provides for the right to certain special benefits in the event of occupational injury and defined occupational diseases. In addition, under the Employment Insurers Act, we have a compulsory insurance scheme whereby employees are also entitled to benefits from the insurance company in which the employer has taken out occupational indemnity insurance. The insurance cover of a professional indemnity gives entitlement to benefits in addition to benefits under the Law on Social Security and aims at providing full compensation to the employee. The costs of compensation payments are largely returned to the injurious business, such as: municipality or county municipality, through their payment of the contribution to the insurance against accidents at work. In practice, the premium payment also covers a substantial part of the cost of social security in the case of occupational injury, since a reimbursement scheme is in place for insurance companies to pay an amount equivalent to a certain proportion of compensation paid in respect of social security. This proportion is included in the premium. The current systems for the coverage of occupational injuries raise several issues. Firstly, I refer to the fact that there is a two-track system whereby a professional injury case is to be assessed both by the social security authorities and by the insurance company concerned. Although the main principles of the damage and disease to be covered by the two laws are broadly consistent, there are also some differences. The proceedings under the two schemes are conducted independently of each other. Social security authorities and insurance companies are in principle not bound by each other's decisions and there is no overall body coordinating practice. Therefore, a professional injury case is more likely to be the subject of double treatment by taking a decision by both social security authorities and the insurance company, for example. the existence and degree of incapacity of a occupational injury. Occupational injuries can often be difficult to deal with because medical assessments are uncertain, for example: the assessment of the cause and effect. In such cases, several medical statements may be obtained and other types of information may also need to be provided. When assessing such cases both by social security authorities and insurance companies, it goes without saying that the handling of a professional injury case can be extensive and time consuming. Today's system travels from a social perspective questions about what is a reasonable use of society's resources. I refer to the importance of this dual treatment in terms of additional administration, the use of partly scarce medical resources and the possibilities of overall follow-up in prevention and rehabilitation. However, there is not least a question of the position of the injured party in the current two-track system. Too many victims – perhaps most of them – I would assume that the system appears incomprehensible and confusing. And for the victim, it often feels as extra burdensome in a potentially difficult situation of life to deal with two different and not coordinated bodies that require their medical assessments and information. In some cases, the injured party also feels that a claim is rejected under one scheme, even if the damage has been recognised as a professional injury under the other. It is also a challenge that, in some cases, the procedure takes a very long time, so that the victim must in practice wait many years before he or she receives a final answer as to whether the damage is accepted as a professional injury and, if necessary, the amount of the compensation. In view of the problems I have now mentioned, the Government has been working for some time on these questions, including: the question of harmonisation of the rules. It has met challenges. The Government has therefore decided, for a period of time, to set up a sample to examine the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. The committee shall assess how the occupational injury system should be organised to meet the challenges I have described. It shall, in particular, consider the possibility of simplification and the best way to ensure rapid, correct and effective settlement for the injured. This will be central to the work of the sample. The fact that we have two schemes that give us the right to cover in the event of occupational injury is historically justified. The rules of the Swedish Social Security Act on occupational injury cover have returned to our first social security law of 1894 on accident insurance for workers in factories. Although we have gradually developed a more general social security system, special rules on cover for occupational injuries are still in place. The adoption of the Occupational Insurers Act in 1989 has updated the question of the basis for maintaining two parallel systems. However, the fact that the rules of the People's Security Act have remained in place has, among other things, background to the criticism raised against the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. It is therefore essential to look at the possibilities for changes to the Professional Indemnity Insurance Act before any two-track system is abolished. One of the main questions to be considered by the sample is whether it may be appropriate to transfer the benefits of occupational injury in social security to the occupational indemnity insurance scheme, but, as I said, it requires first changes to the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. The second main question to be considered by the sample is how, where appropriate, to organise proceedings in the field of occupational injury. The sample will be asked to assess different organisational models, e.g.: whether there should be a so-called settlement office or a complaint body or an entity to assess professional injury. Of course, this question needs to be considered in the context of the question of the winding-up of the two-track system. I hope that the work of the Selection Board will quickly provide the Government and the Stortinget with a good basis for making improvements to the current occupational injury-recovery schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1860	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive to hear that a job has been started, and that some of these issues will now be followed up by the Government. I'd say it's actually time. These are issues that have probably been known for years, and the legislation has been very complicated. What is important now – and I hope at least that the sample will do so – is that the legislation and the arrangements make this predictable. It must be easier for employees to get involved in what rights they have and how things work if such damage as is mentioned here arises. Another thing that I hope the Council of State may also ask the sample to look at is the role of the employer in this, because one of the biggest problems for many employees is precisely the disclaimer shown by the employer. It is important to have help on such a matter and not to feel ‘cut into pieces’. It is therefore important to look at this piece, precisely in view of this problem, because when an employee goes out against an insurance giant, we all know that it will take a reasonable amount of time, and it costs money for a person who might have to engage his own lawyer. I hope you will view this as very important. At the same time, I also hope that they will ensure that this sample does not spend more years in their investigation. Unfortunately, it is often the case when you ask for investigations, and in some complicated areas, that it takes a long time. I hope you get a sample here that can work fairly quickly, so that in the future you will avoid such difficulties as you have had until now. Because in Norway we have a situation where, among other things, there are not so many people who come back after damage and jobs in the healthcare system. It's a pronounced female drug, there's a lot of sick messages and many people get hurt at work, especially in the psychiatric community. It is a stupid signal to send out that if a damage occurs, it takes a very long time before a possible settlement is made. Therefore, we need better solutions in place, so that you feel secure in order to achieve the rights you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1875	I fully agree with the representative of Nesvik that it is important that the sample can work quickly. Of course, it must not work so quickly that the basis we are given is not good enough for us to have a good order. So here we have to balance. We are also concerned — and that is why the sample is not actually physically reduced — that both mandate and composition are based on a discussion with the employers’ and employees’ organisations. The third thing I would like to mention is that with regard to the question of the role of the employer, I very much agree with the representative Nesvik that the employer has a responsibility for employees who are injured in the job, has a clear obligation to follow them up, be interested, etc., but at the same time it is also that in the matter of measuring compensation for a professional injury, it is the employer who is a perpetrator, and so is the counterparty to the specific case. Thus, it is not as easy as saying that the employer should in some way have a kind of lawyer role for the employee. Nor is it certain that it is in the employee's interest. So here you kind of have to be able to keep both roles in place at the same time. There is no doubt that the employer has an obligation to employees who are injured, but is at the same time the person who is the perpetrator and the person who is ultimately responsible for some kind of payment, and that is the requirement that is in principle addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1884	It is a serious matter that the interpellant takes up, and after this interpellation became known, I have also been contacted by a person who has been the victim of such a case. This enquiry confirms the problem raised by the interpellant. The problem for a worker with occupational injuries is also that she or he seems to be standing alone against a formidable opponent, and that after the occupational injury at first instance has been assessed by the Social Security Agency, and granted. It must be possible to avoid this double drive. I have noticed the Minister of Justice's positive reply. She says that the situation of occupational injury is not satisfactory, and in her statement the Council of State pointed out a number of weaknesses in the current legislation. I hope that the selection work that the Council of State outlined will result in a simpler regulation in the foreseeable future. Earlier today, in the Question Time, I had a question about competence and health professional competence in assessing UDI medical statements regarding the repatriation of asylum seekers and refugees who have been diagnosed with tuberculosis. In this area we are talking about here, I believe the Swedish National Agency has competence. I also do not dispute the competence of the doctors associated with the insurance companies, but these are in a way a party to the case, and in my opinion it would be more orderly if one were to remove this double procedure, both in terms of trust in the system and in terms of the safety of the individual injured worker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1893	It is an important area for this interpellation, and for those who suffer an occupational injury – not least in the care profession, which has been affected here – it is also important to have a rapid clarification and to be able to obtain the compensation to which one is entitled. That the area is complicated, one might admit. This means that this must take some time, but once the damage to the profession has been found by the authority to test such questions, the procedure should also be both faster and less complicated. The Council of State said that this was based on two laws, both in the People's Security Act and in the Occupational Injury Act, and I hope that the Council of State can come up with what is now outlined by her and her department, that we should try to achieve the best possible coordination of this, and that, if necessary, it can take place through a settlement office system. We have a system of compensation for patients, and that system has been tested and has now received its final treatment here in Stortinget. I think that a system created after the same reading as the patient compensation scheme could be a template that could at least also be part of the mandate of a sample to look into this. And I just want to further encourage the Council of State to set up a selection and give it a mandate as soon as possible, so that you can get a better practice of this, so that people don't wait long after it's found professional damage, to get the compensation you're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1904	There are more issues related to the question of occupational injury than the interpellant addresses. One is the illogical fact that matters can come to a completely different conclusion, depending on whether they are dealt with by popular or private insurance companies via, among other things. their advisers, at least for the undersigned, it seems obvious that there should be coordination. I noticed that the majority of the Social Committee – and SV were in that majority – argued that in the case of systems related to patient injuries, which are initially a slightly different issue, but where there is still a parallel, all cases should be dealt with by Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, including those relating to private enterprises. If I do not remember correctly, the Minister of Justice argued in connection with the debate in the Chamber against such an arrangement, even though I am a little uncertain about the reason for it. I would have thought that it would be logical to have a professional body – under the authority of the National Agency in this case – which makes the professional assessment of the existence of a patient injury, and in that case what kind of level of medical disability is triggered. This is a complicated piece of legislation, at least until now it has been up to 15 pst. medical invalidity does not trigger rights to professional injury, and therefore a number of those who have been exposed to what they consider to be a professional injury feel completely unlawfully treated, because there may be coincidences associated with the determination. I also want to draw out another moment. SV proposed two years ago that a number of occupational diseases should be assessed in line with occupational harm, as women in the care professions in particular fall outside the scope of current legislation. This means that suffering, which is quite obviously the result of occupational stress, per person. the current date is defined and not accepted. And when the government now, as I see it, is going to review the system of occupational injury – and I guess it also includes occupational diseases – I take it as a matter of course that you make an overall assessment and also look at whether there are new groups that should be included. And I hope that the Minister of Justice will be able to comment, because I know that a number of women in the care professions have been waiting for that assessment. They feel that they have to go out of work because of a professional injury, and then they will not be compensated for the damage that has been done, so that there is also a need for clarification in that area, which I hope the Minister of Justice will be able to comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1913	First, I just want to repeat what I said instead, that I'm very happy that this work now seems to be going on from the department, and that you'll start looking at these issues. The Council of State stated that no mandate or selection has yet been given, but that it has been worked on over time. My call to the Council of State will then at least be for a mandate to be drawn up quickly and for the sample that we have requested to be set aside, precisely to make progress in this work, because it is clear that the longer it takes to agree on the mandate of the sample, and before the sample is reduced, the longer it will take before a decision is made, and before this is put into place. It says itself. One of the things that has been little mentioned by others other than myself is just this feeling that the worker has when standing alone in this fight, and you shouldn't have to worry about it, because you feel very often powerless and get big problems when you're going into such a fight alone. It is true that the employer is a counterparty to this case, but the employer has a responsibility towards the employee precisely because it is the employer who has taken out the insurance on behalf of the employee. And as long as it is the employer who has the conditions of insurance that apply and the arrangements that apply to individual employees, the employer has a material responsibility to follow up on these matters. I hope that piece won't be left standing when you look at the arrangements that are, and how you're going to grips with this. For example, a scheme may: the employer must be in charge of part of the costs incurred in connection with legal assistance if a lawyer is appointed on behalf of the employee in order to be able to assist him. I hope that this selection that is to be reduced now will be reduced, and that you start working, so that this goes fast, and that it does not go both winter and ours one and two and three times before anything happens. I hope you take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1928	What I said, and which is still right, is that the government has decided to bring down such a sample. That decision was made not very long ago, but a while ago. What we haven't done yet is complete the mandate and find the final names, but we'll do that in the next month. When it comes to the issue of the employer's obligation, I can also mention that one of the other issues we are discussing in this area is the question of whether it would be an advantage to regulate employers' information obligations towards employees about the occupational indemnity insurance scheme in a different way from today. We're not done with that evaluation, but it's one of the topics we're also discussing, including: in the light of the issues raised by the representative of Nesvik. Then to the representative of Ballo's reference to the treatment of the patient injury law. It is clear that what was the result of Storting's treatment when it came to the Patient Damage Act, we have to include ourselves in this work, because I agree that there are some parallels to what was the majority's decision there. But at the same time, I would like to point out that one of the reasons why there is at least a bigger bump in the way in this area is that the cause requirement per. today is different in the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance and in the Law on People's Rights, and thus it is simply a different assessment theme under the two schemes. Although there are little differences, there is little difference that makes it an extra challenge before full coordination can be achieved, and that's some reason why we have to do a job before we can come to a conclusion that simply gives us a better coordinated and preferably a one-track system in the future. The last representative that Ballo raised was the question of occupational disease. It's going to come back to that, but as anyone who thinks about it understands, the issue of extending the arrangements is also an economic issue, and thus this must be addressed in contexts where the economy is being treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-02.ana.ud2649e1945	Case No. So 2 is done.
