ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e75	The called alternate of the Vest-Agder County, Sigmund Kroslid, has taken the seat. The representative, Odd Holten, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e83	On behalf of the representative Ivar Østberg and myself, I would like to propose that labour market measures «Protection of sheltered employment» be organised as a share company and receive operating grants from both the State and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e88	The representative of Terje Johansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e91	On behalf of Mr. Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I would like to propose the interconnection of resources to strengthen Norwegian food security and the development of Norwegian high-quality, competitive agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e96	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e108	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there are no lines given after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e117	The Labour Party will have a good school with room for all, regardless of social background, religious affiliation, abilities and value base. The ball is a meeting place for the missing person, and it has to give you all the equivalent possibilities. The ball shall also represent a common platform for children and young people. The proposal we are dealing with today is about the Oasis Children's School, which has a teaching system that is common to many schools, the ACE-pedagogics. Example from the textbook in social science, from which I take a great distance, and which is directly noisy, is mentioned in some of the newspapers today, especially in the World Gang: women should be men in subjection both at home and at work. Luckily, it's out-of-date politics. Today's debate is also about what we want Skule-Noreg to look like, and it is about the quality of the school. For me, the children are actually the most important thing. I don't doubt that's the goal of the other parties either. The Christian People's Party, especially Bondevik, owes it to the Workers' Party for the lack of tolerance in the view of private schools. This is a bomb shot and shows it's out of the hour. The Labour Party thinks we should have a supplement to the public schools through private schools. The Labour Party is still going to approve private bullets, as we've done and done through the law that we've been running for decades. Tolerance means accepting. We accept and respect private spheres as a complement to the public common sphere as long as they fall under their private school laws. But we don't want private schools with extreme educational arrangements, without regard to religion, life views or values. The Private School Act states that the Department will approve educational plans. This means that the Ministry is obliged to go through the curriculum and instructional arrangements. The government is obliged, according to the law that Storting has decreed, to exercise a certain discretion. That judgement has been exercised in this matter. Based on the law and the processing, we believe that the council's handling of the application from the Oasen private children's ball is correct. The proposers call for similarity to the law, and for the purpose of the law to be based on the purpose paragraph. Does this mean that the purpose of the private school law is to approve each application to create a private school on a religious basis, without appreciating the teaching system? Does likeness to the law mean that a new government is bound by what the previous one has agreed? And does similarity to the law mean that state councils should not exercise the discretion that the law says the state council should do? In October 1999, Minister of Education Lilletun received a message from the Equality Office on the ACE Schools’ educational material. It pointed out that the learning material was contrary to the Equality Act. Lilletun chose not to consider this. In addition, Lilletun received letters from the Norwegian Church on women’s and gender equality issues. They insisted that the ACE-pedagogics «may hardly be said to be particularly Christian, but it represents a sub-order ideology which can seriously harm the sex identity and self-image of girls and boys». Lilletun overlooked this too, and approved the school. Then Lilletun says to the VG yesterday that he «never approved ACE pedagogy, but applications from Christian life schools». Is it possible to waive responsibility in the way Lilletun does? I want to add that in 1995 there was a case of Muslim schools. State councillor Hernes said no to Muslim schools after an overall assessment also based on discretion. The progress party was not occupied by the parent right in that case, so they said nothing about it. In 1999, Lilletun said yes to Muslim schools, and he founded this with the parental right. In the Labour Party, we accepted that the council had the right to exercise discretion, and we did nothing about it, despite the fact that we knew that we had multiples in the hall together with the Progress Party. It is said in the law that one should exercise discretion, and it is also important that each government can do so. Some proposers have said that private schools are the most important in relation to their parents ’ right to choose schools for their children. I agree that parents' right to choose schools is both important and correct. However, when a school requires government funds in relation to the private school law, parents should feel confident that the state demands quality of education and material return.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e157	It's a special issue today. It is nothing less than democratic principles such as freedom of mind and tolerance. First, I want to establish that the Christian People's Party is a strong supporter of a good public school. It was supposed to be missing, because it's 98 pst. by our students. But at the same time, the Christian People's Party also insists that it is a democratic right to provide alternatives to the dominant school system. That's why we have a private school law. Certainly, it is left to the Council of State to exercise some discretion in the matter of approval. But it is not equivalent to its own power, as the Council of State has exercised in this matter. He doesn't want any ACE school anyway. That is why he is constantly changing his grounds for refusal. In kilograms. the resolution reads: ‘However, limits must be set on how far a school can go in emphasising religious matters in education.’ The oasis school will include the Christian faith in all subjects. This is nothing new. For Christian health schools, this has always been a goal. The Christian faith should not only shape the subjects, but also the social life of the school. That's why you have your own Christian schools. Private School Act Section 3 says: ‘In order to be recognised as eligible under this law, the school must either be a. Ships of religious and/or ethical grounds’, etc. So it's the school as such, not just a Christian subject. The Councils of State are high on the job as ministers of the Church with their actions as tolerant and adapted to the minorities. But how does this fit him as Minister of Education? Should the tolerance apply only to the actions in which he himself agrees? Christian schools or Muslim schools must be able to exist even if Giske or I didn't like them. We cannot say that we are educating democracy in a state-unified society. Freedom of speech and freedom of speech must prevail in school. And we're talking about the parents' children – not the state's children. The Council of State tolerance is now being tested to allow schools that conform to basic concepts of living democracy – parental rights and freedom of spirit. This has been the nightmare of all rulers through history. The Council of State has value problems with this matter, because it does not follow its own values in terms of self-determination and freedom of choice in relation to parental schools, and shows intolerance to different thinking. We notice this well when we hear the caricature of the Council of State of this school outside this house. In Norway, we have several ACE schools that have previously been approved with the same curricula that Oasen will use. I'm asking, what does the department think is going to apply other than equality to the law? The Ministry of Education sent teaching materials used by ACE schools to the Equality Ombudsman for assessment. It was concluded that these educational materials violate the Equality Act, and this was then appealed. The Oasis Primary School has informed that it will comply and follow the decision taken by the Klagenmendamenda for Gender Equality, and I ask: Has not the Ministry achieved its goal by making the school comply with the Equality Act? Furthermore, it says that the students have to show tolerance even when their life - vision stand is different. I ask you, does this also apply to state councils? What is the matter here is that the teaching system is stamped as very individualized, and I ask: is cooperation excluded when we have individual learning plans in public school and do project work across the subjects? The Ministry has also assumed that the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child will not be respected. The Ministry questions whether the school complies with the requirements of Article 29d of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Yes, perhaps we should look at the content of this article, namely that the child’s education should aim at ‘preparing the child for a responsible life in a free society in a spirit of understanding, peace, tolerance’. Furthermore, in paragraph 2: ‘No part of this Article or Article 28 shall be understood to interfere with the freedom of persons and organisations to set up and manage educational institutions’. I agree that certain demands must be made for all schools. The democratic principles must apply. Therefore, we must operate according to approved professional plans. I remind you that the approval system for textbooks has been removed. I will then take up the proposal, and I expect a new application from the Oasen primary school to be looked at with new eyes and treated as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e204	Elsa Scarbøvik has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e207	This case is not about whether the Storting likes or dislikes ACE education. Nor is this a matter of whether it at all times likes or dislikes the profile of the schools that submit an application for approval under the Private School Act. The objective paragraph of the Private Schools Act of 14 June 1985 reads as follows: ‘The purpose of this Act is to help ensure that private schools can be organized and run.’ Of course, it does not imply, as the chairman of the committee suggested, that the proposers should feel that anyone submitting an application is automatically entitled to have it approved. The law continues to define clearly the conditions on which the application is to be evaluated, and it is the duty of the Ministry to ensure that these conditions are satisfied. In 1999, more specifically on 1 March, the department sent a letter to Live Word Primary School in Bergen, which is a school of the same kind and with the same curricula as the Oasen Primary School, where the department defined a number of prerequisites for school acceptance. It said, among other things. the following: ‘The school shall provide adapted training for each student and must focus on working together between the students, including across the subjects. This applies to all class steps. The school must focus on the development of social and community relations, including gender equality. This must be taken into account in the choice of material and working methods. The school also has its educational freedom, see Section 4 of the Private School Act, including freedom of use of ACE material, as far as it is useful in carrying out the training according to the curricula approved by the School under Section 3(a) of the Private School Act. The Ministry asks for confirmation that this means that the school will withdraw the remaining parts of its ACE application. The school will subsequently have its approval under the Private School Act § 3(a).’ This is an exemplary exercise of what is the Ministry's obligation under the Private School Act. When it is said in the proposal by the proposers that it is expected that any new application will be dealt with on the basis of the ‘principle of equality of law’, which is an obvious principle in any legal State, it is to refer to the fact that it is not possible in one case to use anything as a condition for approval and in the next case identical to that, to use the same as the justification for refusal. It's a completely blatant breach of the requirement of non-discrimination. The proposal presupposes that the purpose of the Private School Act is not to protect the free exercise of discretion by the State Council at all times. It is not for that purpose that the Storting gives laws. The Storting provides laws to ensure a reasonable degree of predictability for Norwegian citizens when they wish to make use of the rights granted to them both under international conventions signed by Norway and under national Norwegian law. I started by saying that this case is not about what sympathy or lack of sympathy you might have for what is called ACE pedagogics. Let me also stress since part of the press campaign you've seen in recent times, it's made up as if it's in the capacity of educational alternatives that these schools have applied for approval, that it's actually not. They have applied for approval for the life-synthesis criterion in the Private School Act. It's not about whether you like the theology that distinguishes the congregations that want to run these schools. I'm going to assume that most people in this country know that my theology is a bit away from the theology that applies in these groupings. Let me also add that for myself I would not have dreamed of sending my children to this school. But that's actually not what it's about. It's about respect for the parents who, on the basis of their conscience, want it to be this school offer that their child will have. What is the problem in dealing with this matter by the Council of State is that it leaves an impression of arbitraryness and immaturity. After a few days in the Council of State, the Council of State withdrew the approval given by the previous government, at that time with one single reason, namely the opposition from the local government in the Songdalen and in view of an expected decline in the number of children in the public school in the municipality. Then, last June, the Stortinget clarified the legal text, in order to make it clear that the private school law cannot be interpreted in such a way that this consideration alone can set aside the principle of the free choice of parents. The State Council then changed the justification by defining the problem as a question of equality law and whether the learning material was in conformity with the Equality Act. Despite the fact that the school stated in a letter to the Council of State that it would comply with the outcome of the equality Ombudsman's treatment of the case, this resulted in a delay of more than half a year before the Council of State in the appeal he submitted and had the King in the Council of State to adopt, and replaced this justification with three new reasons, none of which had been involved in the matter at an earlier time. It is therefore opposed to the relatively unique administrative practice that the conclusion has been maintained and replaced as it turned out that the first premises could not be used. The three premises included in the Royal Resolution are, in my opinion, both individually and collectively useless. Not a single one of them holds goals in relation to the criteria of the Private School Act for the approval of schools. Long debates can be held on the division of roles between the Government and the Grand Duchy in general and on such matters. It is true, of course, that it is not Storting's job to deal with individual matters, but it is Storting's job to make sure that the Government does what it should do in the administration of Norwegian law. And especially in the case of a minority government, it's the government's job to exhibit the little musicality required to perceive what the majority of the population thinks, and then align with it. In this regard it has been seen to be relatively unique that an alliance of the Human-Ethical League, Muslims and all parts of the Christian churches in Norway have written letters to the Norwegian Government and expressed concern about the Government's relationship with freedom of the spirit and religion. It has not happened before in peacetime, and I think it should worry the Council of Churches and the Minister of Education – both in one person – and it should also worry the Prime Minister of the country, because it is relatively rare that such broad alliances occur in Norwegian society. The proposal promoted is both in form and content a moderate proposal for the exercise of the control function of the Storting compared to the Government. The proposal states that the Oasen primary school is entitled to what other applicants have, namely a dialogue with the department – that dialogue they have never achieved in the time of the Council of State – and to find out whether the conditions that may be imposed for approval can be accepted by the school. In that case, the matter will be resolved. As far as I can understand, the bulk of the population cannot choose a softer and more friendly form in relation to a matter where you could have chosen a significantly crazier form.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e245	The question of the approval of private schools in general and the Oasis primary school in particular has been addressed in this room earlier. As late as May–June last year, the Oasen was an important theme. We in the Progress Party already saw at the time that the Workers' Party would do everything in their power to prevent this school and similar schools from being approved. It was on this basis that we proposed a clear instruction already at the time. Faith in the councils was then great, and we remained sadly alone. It is gratifying that there is now a majority to take a real hold on this kind of practice that the Council of State and the Workers' Party are conducting. Although the children have missed a year at this school, it is still better late than never. The Progress Party will also refer for its own part to the trainings and problems that the Labour Party Government finds to burden others applying for approval. This applies, inter alia, to: Montessori schools. Another example may be the application for recognition of a school in Bjoa, the municipality of Ølen, which has now been trained due to legal formalities relating to the application. This applies, for example: also Alta Christian elementary school. It should not be too much that sometimes the Council of State could show a minimum of tolerance to people with different desires and views than the central government worker party thinking. The needs and self-perception of what is best for children — their children — must never be subordinated to an ideological socialist idea of equality that stifles and denies the idea of the individual’s peculiarity and inviolability. Children in Norway must also enjoy the same human rights as we require other countries to practice. Giske has seen and thought almost in the clouds through the media in many things. That we have a government council that throws out views in the cabin and the weather, gets to be, but when he deprives people of the right to choose, then we and society have a significant democratic problem. This is particularly problematic when the government's refusal is based on more or less qualified vision. Speculations à la ‘possible may conflict with equality rules’ cannot in themselves be enough. This is easily resolved by the granting of the authorisation subject to compliance with Norwegian law. ACE schools have shown that when it has been established that some books are not compatible with the requirements of equality authorities, these books have been removed from education. If the Workers' Party believes that teachers should be examined in terms of attitudes, vocabulary and assessments, we can have an interesting control, because we assume that the Workers' Party is related to the Norwegian law and the prohibition of arbitraryness and the like in the administration. A review of teachers’ communication skills and quality will in no way be opposed to the Progress Party. We have wanted this in the State School of the Workers Party for a very long time, without having received any support. The fact that the Workers' Party will shape all children in its image cannot be a good enough reason to refuse others to choose another ideal. Just diversity provides the opportunity to find an offer that is well suited to one's unique and very special children. We appreciate diversity. The possibility of getting the most appropriate offer in the situation you are in is important for the Progress Party. It is regrettable that the Labour Party consistently believes that freedom of choice should apply only to those with a thick wallet. They can pay for the training they think their children should receive. The right and obligation of parents to choose the best for their children depends on the existence of choices and the existence of financial rights for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e260	Let me begin by stressing that the Center Party wants a strong public school where there will be room for everyone. We want a school where everyone can be integrated, regardless of the level of function, ethnic background, or religious orientation. A few years ago, Norway has been a homogeneous society, in the sense that we have had a similar cultural background. This has radically changed in recent years. This has, among other things. a. has led us here in Stortinget to introduce the CRL subject. The profession was to gather children from all faiths on the basis of the intention that the public elementary school is important as the common arena for children and young people. However, the private school law is maintained in respect of parents’ right to choose training according to their own conviction. It is claimed from several teams that there will be more applications to set up Christian schools because there is too little Christianity in the CRL field today. This is likely to be a very central topic of debate in the coming weeks. The centre party believes it is a challenge to create such a good and inclusive public school that there will be no great demand for other options. But to think that we can avoid some parents wanting a different alternative is to be blue-eyed in my view. So what do we do? You can change the private school law, but so that international conventions don't break. But it's predicting the future, and I don't go into it anymore. The centre party has a restrictive view on the creation of private schools with government grants that are not based on alternative pedagogics, based on the objective that we primarily want one school for all. However, the programme for the next period states that provided that the approved curriculum and Norwegian law are followed, the same rules must apply. The centre party has established equal treatment for its position on this matter, i.e. that the schools approved last March must be entitled to the same treatment. The Songdalen municipality board appealed approval based on the situation of the municipality's own schools. It is a significant argument that the Centre Party has assessed in its entirety. We therefore did not support a proposal from the Progress Party last May that the Council of State should approve the Oasis. But after the applicant filed an appeal against the municipality's appeal, and there is no real danger to the public school in Songdalen, other arguments were made on the part of the department. In such a situation, one must be allowed to ask whether it was really the heart of the host municipality that was most important, or whether it was the discovery of a hopeless doctrine of equality and a special methodology that was the main reason for the rejection. Or is it that the council doesn't like the school battle, which is the main reason for the rejection? I have reminded myself of a statement by the Human-Ethical Federation – there have been many requests to the members of the Committee on this – and I quote: ‘If the KUF is concerned about the teaching material in private schools, it may require a minimum pension — which may include education on gender equality in Norway, but it should not be refused recognition because it does not like parts of the syllabus to which it is added.’ I also show that the State Education Office in West Agder had recommended that the school should be approved in the autumn of 1999. It's the different treatment of the same type of schools at the same time as the Center Party thinks is unfortunate. Let's make it clear that we're taking a distance from schools that add up to uniformization and indoctrination. I've said that several times. And that's exactly what the department through its supervisory function is going to make sure it doesn't happen. I allow myself to mention that I have had enquiries from people I know well, who have their children in Christian schools that follow parts of the ACE methodology. They are not recognised in the descriptions produced in several media. Furthermore, the government has expressed a negative opinion that students are being teased in Bible verses. I don't know if learning Bible passages is trickling, but I'm so old that I learned both hymns and Bible history without going to primary school, so I can't stand to stand up to the fact that parents who profess Christian faith actually want to integrate Christianity into training. Of course, this should not delay vocational training. I will once again refer to an opinion of the Human-Ethical Federation: ‘Tolerance is just about being able to live with opinions and attitudes in which you differ deeply.’ It is generally a challenge for many in Norwegian society to respond to this ideal. The centre party believes that equal treatment for the law is the important principle in this case. Norwegian law and approved curriculum must, of course, be followed. The democratic aspect as well as the gender dimension is not least important in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e298	‘The aim of training is to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others. It shall give each student the ability to take care of himself and his life, and at the same time the surplus and the willingness to stand by others." This is the introduction to the general part of the curriculum common to primary and secondary education. For approx. two years ago I had an interpellation after the department had approved the Rainbow School in Lørenskog. This is a school that's run by the same organization as the one that's behind the school we're discussing today. My claim at the time was that schools using the American-inspired ACE pedagogy should not have been approved as eligible. I explained this with, among other things, first, that the structure of ACE pedagogics is fundamentally contrary to the curriculum at primary school. Secondly, they practice an assessment system and criminal practices that do not conform to the curriculum’s view of learning. Thirdly, they operate contrary to the Training Act in some key areas. First of all, to the syllabus. A basic principle of the master's syllabus is that pupils are required to have adapted training, that they take into account the abilities and assumptions of students. This permeates both the general part and the vocational syllabus. The content of the subjects shall stimulate and promote creativity, cooperation, environmental awareness, identity, understanding of fundamental values and cultural heritage, general education with expertise. The dissemination of knowledge, facts and attitudes, and not least in the choice of working methods and practices, will achieve the objectives. Cooperation between pupils, teachers and school management is necessary to develop the school as a learning environment and a workplace. Training shall promote democratic working methods and contribute to the development of social skills by students. The curriculum underlines that project work is to be carried out both within and across the disciplines. An assessment system that uses punishment and reward to six-year-olds, who do not have the opportunity to see its context, fundamentally violates the curriculum’s view of learning. In all learning, there must be consistency between wrongdoing and punishment. What I didn't have the opportunity to see through two years ago was the obvious contempt of the Education Act for the management of the school. Under Section 14 of the Private School Act, the requirements for education in the Education Act also apply in the Private School Act. In School Focus No. 6 for this year the headmaster of the Rainbow School, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In fact, it can be an advantage if you are a teacher at an ACE school that you do not have a teacher’s education, because then you take ACE education more easily.’ What the man says is that he ‘gives white’ in Norwegian law, while he expects the community to finance the business. There is reason to remember that only one of the school's teachers has approved education. In retrospect, we have also received evidence that parts of the educational equipment used conflict with the Equality Act. The education director of Oslo and Akershus has now made an assessment of the school and it should not have been approved with State aid. We said this when the school was approved. The case does not concern Rainbow School in Lørenskog, but it is about a school to be run on the same ideological basis. We know that the organisation behind it has ambitions to establish dozens of schools in the next few years. There are no good reasons why the community should finance this type of school. We cannot prevent them from being established, but it is our responsibility to ensure that children are trained according to Norwegian law. Therefore, these schools should not receive grants because in key areas they break the Training Act and other laws. They use learning methods, teaching materials and assessment methods that conflict with curricula, and – not least – they have leaders who clearly show contempt for the training system and the laws adopted by the Stortinge. This is not just a particular school, but a training system that the Ministry is obliged to focus on when assessing State aid. Therefore, the Council of State has done the right thing when this school is not granted State aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e328	It violates ideology on deep water in this matter. As the Left sees it, it's about the seventh and last thing about how minorities are to be treated by a majority when international conventions first exist, and there is national law. For Norway, international conventions dealing with parental rights and freedom of life and freedom of religion have joined, and we have national legislation in the private school law that regulates how this should be handled. From the left's point of view, therefore, the Oasen case – as the representative described in an excellent way – is about how to ensure real non-discrimination and real predictability of treatment. This should include, inter alia: means that if there is something you wonder about in a scheme, you ask first without concluding. It could also mean, as it's always been before, that if there's something you want fulfilled, you set terms. Is it really, when you go into ideological matters, that there are some minimum conditions for membership of the Norwegian community that provide public support? Yes, it is. For example, when you set up a Muslim school, it is a minimum condition when you follow Norwegian law that you actually follow the human rights conventions. Anyone who has tried to get involved in the debate within parts of Islam knows that it is not uncontroversial. In parts of the Islamic world, it is very controversial, but it was obviously not controversial for those who applied for Urtehagen in Oslo. Similarly, the Norwegian law underpinning any school, including those under the private school law, will require compliance with the Equality Act. And it will assume, as we said and have been proposers to and expressed, that when we show respect for the outlook of life and the faith that parents have, this must not be carried out in such a way that it covers the peculiarities of the different subjects. It means in plain text that a subject, whether it's mathematics, physics or biology, has to be carried out in a real way, but you've of course been allowed from your faith to tell what it means when it meets this. That is the principle in this case, and it is very surprising that I have seen the handling of the matter, for I have been present in part at some meetings where the Council of State has been, where it seems as if the undersigned and some others actually are to approve schools that I do not know anyone will approve, and where it seems to be that a caricature of positions is a better debateable tool than dealing with the properness of matters in the handling of a case. I think it is a requirement to be able to expect, when you sit and deal with Norwegian law, that you are strictly factual. So it might be that when you get into the matter, it sparkles ideologically that that's the way it is. But in that case, it's real. And here I come to my second point. I have the impression that, in dealing with the Oasen case, the Council of State has also violated an unwritten Norwegian law called being real. Being real in Norway actually means that people who all realize that you don't like, even strongly disagree with, act in such a way that everyone can nodded afterwards and say: this was really handled. And it's not really handled when the argument changes from one round to the other. It is not really handled when public debates choose to assign opponents positions that they do not have. What's real is to deal with procedures that make people have to answer right and relevant questions, that they have to deal with conditions, and that of course the State Education Office does the supervisory work they're going to do. And because it hasn't been really handled, there's an alliance in this room that someone's been amazed by, between the five parties that are here, but also outside the hall, as the representative Wage pointed out, by being able to keep the Human-Ethical League together and various variants of the Christian Church because you're becoming deeply troubled. Or as one person wrote to me, I don't think I like what's behind this school battle, but I like even less the way it's handled. It was a person who was very safe in his personal view of life, very safe in his own pedagogy, but who believes that it is a sort of minimum measure of what kind of properness one exhibits toward people, and where it is not enough just to dislike or disagree, it must be handled properly. Finally, I will allow myself to say the same thing in this case that I said when in another role in life I met someone who would introduce an American Christian program into Norwegian prisons. Then I said that you are welcome to do it as long as you hold on to the core of your faith, but otherwise you are culturally that it is in Norway that you are. Then translate the ideals into a language that wins respect in Norway. It's not in the law, but I allow myself to give wise advice to those who are operating within the ACE movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e345	Let me first say a few words about the procedure, since much of the document is available. The 8-proposal deals with the ministry's examination of the Oasen Bible Centre's application. Oasen Bibelsenter applied for the approval of Oasen Children's School under the Private School Act 9 September 1999. The school was to use the same curricula that were previously approved for ACE schools. The ministry said yes to the application by decision of 13 March 2000, four days after the Bondevik government had fallen into Stortinget, and four days before the government took over Stoltenberg. On 3 April 2000, the local authority, the municipality of Songdalene, complained about the decision of the department. They indicated that the majority of local government went against the establishment of the school because they were concerned about the number of students in public school. In the light of this, the Ministry reversed the decision and rejected the application on 15 May 2000. The Labour Party has always considered that such concern for the closure of public schools should be given crucial importance. I've chosen to support the community's view. The decision was appealed by the Oasen Bible Center on June 2, 2000. On 13 June 2000, the majority of the population changed the private school law so that the resistance of the community is not sufficient reason to reject private school applications. It is therefore not right, as the representative on the pay side said, to interpret the private school law. You changed the law on private school. Therefore, the Ministry had to carry out a full examination of the case in order to assess all aspects of the application. Some have considered that in their appeal proceedings, the ministry can only consider the aspects of the case which have been raised in the grounds on which the complaint was based. That's not right. On the contrary, Section 34 of the Administrative Act states: ‘If the appeal is taken during the proceedings, the Board of Appeal may examine all aspects of the case’. The law also says that: ‘shall assess the views of the complainant and may also address matters not of concern to him.’;» After kgl. Resolution of 9 February 2001 the complaint of the Oasen Bible Centre was not followed. The teaching materials in ACE schools have also received a lot of attention. In a letter dated 21 October 1999, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman wrote that the ACE material violates the Equality Act. The Ministry replied in a letter dated 23 November 1999 that it was not permitted to approve the teaching materials of private schools. In a letter dated 25 February, the Equality Ombudsman repeats his questions about education. At the same time, they draw attention to the fact that although there is no system of approval for the teaching material of private schools, Section 7 of the Gender Equality Act imposes requirements on the educational materials regardless of authorisation schemes. Despite this and despite the fact that the teaching materials have been attached to the application, the Department therefore chooses to approve new ACE schools on 13 March 2000. After I took over, the ACE teaching materials were sent to the Equality Ombudsman for assessment on 17 July 2000. The decision of the Equality Ombudsman in the case existed on 2 October 2000. The Ombudsman found that the teaching materials used by ACE schools are not based on gender equality and that the schools using the educational materials are breaking the Equality Act. Letter of 10 October 2000 to the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research of the Office of Equal Opportunities assumes that the Department does not approve any more ACE-based schools until the issue of the legality of the teaching materials is decided by the Gender Equality Complaint. The complainant took a decision in the case on 22 January 2001. ACE Norway appealed against the decision of the Equality Ombudsman to the Equality Board. Nevertheless, they wrote in letters dated 23 October and 27 October 2000 that they wanted to use teaching materials that were in line with Norwegian law. The document also states that the Training Act does not apply to schools that are approved under the Private School Act. This isn't right. The first paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Training Act states: ‘Children and young people are required to attend primary school and are entitled to public primary school education in accordance with the statutory and related regulations. The obligation may be discharged by public primary education or by other equivalent training.’ In other words, training in private schools should be equivalent to that given in primary public education. And so it has to be. It cannot be the case that those who attend a private school receive less training than other children and lose weight to them. The discussion of the issue of ACE schools has made a strong impression on me. It impresses me when the Council of Churches writes that the ACE pedagogy “represents a sub-order ideology that can do great harm to girls and boys' sex identity and self-image”. It impresses me to see textbooks with a mother who denies her crying child with a bald tree. It impresses me when it is revealed that small children in the recording questions have to answer if they are saved. It gives me the impression when an ACE rector says that he sees it as an advantage that the teachers who are going to teach in ACE do not have teacher training. It impresses me when the slave trade is almost described as God's way of Christian negation. Some of these things are cleared up, others are not. The parental right is important. Parents shall have the right to choose the kind of faith in which their children are to be taught. But for me, it is also important to take into account the children. Every child in Norway has the right to a good schooling. Every child has the right to have the knowledge and skills needed to function in our society. Each child shall be allowed to attend a school which gives the best possible start to life. That's why it doesn't matter how each school teaches, what it teaches, what the kids teach and what they don't learn. That is why we all have a responsibility to ensure that the children receive such a good offer. And that's why the ministry has not only a right, but also a duty to make sure that all the private schools that are to be supported meet the basic requirements. This debate has not been about yes or no to life views schools, which some have tried to present it as. ACE schools represent a brand new American imported pedagogy. It is so extreme that the Council of Churches says it can hardly be said to be particularly Christian. So it is also not right that it has been presented earlier in the debate here, that there is a coherent Christian environment that supports the ACE schools. In Norway we are looking forward, with more cultures, ethnic groups and religions, we need meeting places. Where should these meeting places be if not at school? It is my challenge to those who will release private schools – fortunately those lines do not correspond to the lines in this case. Where are we going to meet? How are we going to get to know each other? How can we be a society when children and young people grow into adult life without the foundation of growing up together? That's why I think it's so important that we can call the community school and that we can give it the quality it deserves. I think today's decision is not a step in the right direction, but I take note that the majority has a different view. I also see that not everything in the proceedings has been equally fortunate. I understand that it can't be that easy to have a private school application inside the department when you get a change in political direction. In particular, it must be difficult when the change takes place in the middle of the process around such a case. Therefore, the proposers have a point when they write that Oasen Barneskole has not received any comments from the department's assessments in the final phase before final decision was taken. I will take the decision Stortinget will do later today, to inform you. When considering any new application under the law, I will ensure that the Department is made aware of the decision and will inform it that it will be the basis for future examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e408	A good public school will be the most nearby and best option for most parents in Norway. And as politicians, we should have the main focus here. But not all parents feel at home in public school. The less than 2 pst. Of the Norwegian students who choose a high school, in reality the valve is the one that ensures that the public school is completed by 98 pst. by the students, and it's amazing that it's these 2 psts. which gives rise to the largest involvement in Norwegian school policy. Today's debate is about important principles: Should life-vision schools show their peculiarity? Should parenthood mean something? Should a democratic right as freedom of religion mean something? The matter we are now dealing with puts these principles to the test. They also challenge our ability to tolerate. What does the majority want with today's proposal? When I have engaged in this matter, it is to get a treatment of any new application based on the similarity of the law and the purpose paragraph of the Private School Act. I want to give applicants predictability and reasonable treatment. In this case, it seems to me that the Council of State has drawn the conclusion in advance, in order to find arguments that suit the fasit. But do the arguments contained in the royal resolution hold true? No, no, no. The reasons given by the government cannot be undisputed, therefore, because they would have to have educational implications for the public school in Norway; because assumptions cannot be a decisive criterion; and because the justification erodes fundamental principles such as parental and religious freedom. The procedure shows, in my opinion, an irregularity, as other representatives have pointed out, and there is a changing argument during the course of the proceedings. The main problem in this matter, in my opinion, is that the Council of State draws a sense of reality that is both caricatured and ideologically anchored. The last thing I think is okay, but the citizens of Norway must have a claim that the laws apply regardless of the ideology of the Government. I agree with one of the leaders of the Social Democratic Movement, Tony Blair, who, on March 29, this year in a speech to the Christian Socialist Movement in the United Kingdom, said the following: «Church schools are a true partnership between the churches and the government. They are a pills of our national education system, valued by many parents for their faith character, their moral empathy, and the high quality of education they generally provide. Since 1997 we have been happy to form partnerships with other faith groups to provide state funded schools.» In this context, the Council of State sounds more like an old-fashioned socialist. And I'm not in any doubt about what I prefer -- it's Tony Blair. The Christian People's Party emphasises that primary schools should comply with Norwegian law. Applicants must comply with the Norwegian Equality Act. Furthermore, it is important that the characteristics of schools are expressed in a way that does not cover the specific nature of subjects. The representative, Mr Reikvam, pointed out in his contribution to a school other than the Oasen to justify his refusal to this proposal. It is important to remember that schools are on their own and need to be assessed individually in terms of law and quality requirements. To say that a case involving another private school should be the reason why this school should not be able to be approved does not hold. Finally, the Council of State said, referring to the treatment of the private school law by Stortinget in June last year, that Stortinget amended the law. The correct thing is that the Storting clarified the law in order to clarify the discretion that the Council of State claimed in the treatment. This clarification was important because the discretionary room was used incorrectly, a way that was not in line with the intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e435	Previous speaker's example from the United Kingdom makes me think of an old story about the school councils of a conservative government that stood in the House of Commons and said that she did not really understand all this mass of public school, because no one she knew sent her children there. I hope that this is a situation that we will never get into in Norway. To say something completely unnecessary: The Storting deals with today Document No. 8:75, but we do not deal with an attitude from the church, education and research committee. It has an obvious weakness, namely that it is only part of the Storting that has been given its premises in a documentable form. And because I am among those who have asked for reforms in relation to how the Storting should treat the so-called Document No. Eight proposals, I hope that the president and also the majority of the population who last week decided on this form of treatment, take the rather important moment inwards. Let me quote paragraph 3 of the Private School Act § 25 : ‘The competent department shall decide on each individual case whether the school complies with the requirements of this Act and whether, after an overall assessment, the school shall be approved with the right of appeal.’;» There are several important things here. It says "by case". This means that no application is to be treated in summary terms on the grounds that similar or similar schools have previously been approved. Such summary treatment would be contrary to the law. It also says ‘after an overall assessment’. This means that many facts can be drawn to find out whether it is in accordance with the law to approve a school. So here, there's a significant degree of judgement. There is an obligation to treat schools individually even where we are going to strive for equality of law, but there is also a considerable degree of discretion, and this discretion lies with the ministry. Of course, if you get a very close review of the department's discretion, the majority of the population is entitled to it, but then you should also think about how close you are to the parliamentary distribution of power and how it might weaken the responsibilities of the Council of State towards the Stortinget. Then I'm not going to have any bombproof perception of which schools should or should be approved. In his post, the Inge Wohnung said that he expected that his theological vision was well known in the country. I can't take credit for that. But I hope I have a reasonable reputation for a certain tolerance. And tolerance means approving things you don't even agree with, it's a way of life, a pedagogical method, or whatever it is. But the recognition of a school within a law and regulation is something far more than showing tolerance. It is a question of putting a public quality stamp under the administration of a law. And you can't condone that with a simple moralistic argument about this. It is a commitment that the Council of State has, and that the Storting has a right to control, but in my view hardly to over-test.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e451	The speaker who is given the floor hereafter has a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e454	What we see in this matter is that the Council of State is attacking Christian diversity in Norway when he is constantly out with a description of the Oasis that is wrong. That council would have done if he had something to object to, was much more to enter into dialogue with the Oasen, making demands and clarifying the disagreements that have been surrounding the curriculum and what they are to build on. But the Council of State is far more concerned with countering those who want something creative, those who want diversity in the Christian schools in Norway, and I think that is worrying. I think the parents' right to choose what their children should do is absolutely the best. And here I don't think the Council of State can overdo what the parents want. I think one should facilitate that the parents, like the way it is in all other areas of society, should take responsibility for their children, and will be allowed to participate in and decide in what way they will be taught. But it's clear that if there's something wrong with teaching, the Council of State has a duty to point it out and get into dialogue about it. But I think that one has seen from the Workers' Party in this area, where the Oasis has been countered from the first day, lacks parallel in Norway. Never has dialogue been the most important thing for the Council of State. The most important thing for the Council of State and the Department has always been to present in the media the people who have gone into the brink of this Christian, the good alternative, in a way that I think is completely unworthy of a Council of State. In line with the Council of State, I think one should respect the diversity of other congregations and other religious communities in this country, and the right that parents have to participate and have a decisive influence over the teaching of their children. So the decision that Stortinget will make today is a help on the way so that the Council of State, which in my view has dealt with this matter in an unjust way, by constantly changing the reason why he would not approve the Oasis application, can now get down to his legs – by the majority of this room today sweeping into doubt and giving them a helping hand so that they can get a teaching offer that is the children and the parents who want the children to receive such education worth it. But of course the Council of State must follow up, and if there is something that is contrary to Norwegian law, it should be pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e463	I record that the Workers' Party and SV in particular are concerned with the claims that these schools are not good in terms of gender equality. As far as I understand it, you've been left open to remove the contentious books. Discrimination is nothing new in our society. In particular, it is significant in part of the cultural environment. I wish one had been equally concerned to settle with the discrimination, the violence and the coercion that, among other things. women in Muslim environments are exposed. But this may not be so politically feasible for some. I think we should be much more concerned about whether the children who go to schools that use all or part of the education of ACE schools, learn good Norwegian, mathematics, science, etc. – what is important in order to survive in society – and teach them to respect other people, other people’s property, etc. Do ACE schools have problems with violence and bullying and lack of quality, as we struggle with in public schools? Nope. Personally, I think these things are far more important. The representative Inge Wohnning said he would not send his children to these types of schools. Even I'm not that categorical. I wouldn't say no if I thought it would give them a good education. I am also skeptical of the woman’s vision that you preach, but I respect that you have this vision. I may also belong to the last generation that was set to incubate hymns and sing hymns, and that had much Bible knowledge at school. I don't think we did any significant damage to it. Finally, a little bit of a depression. In Norway today we have come so far in the equality hysteria that all textbooks are full of family descriptions where mother is a fireman and father is washing up. It is almost so that it limits against human discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e476	I can reassure the representative Knudsen that I have stopped putting children into the world, so that's not an urgent issue. When I mentioned it purely hypothetically, it was just to point out that my four children have all passed the public school apparently without taking permanent damage from it. I fully agree with all the good things that have been said both by the Council of State and the head of the Committee and others from the Workers' Party, that it is excellent to have a common public school and a common meeting place – provided that it is not a meeting requirement, i.e. voluntary use of this offer or alternative offer. When Ranveig Frøiland says that for the Workers' Party, private schools are a supplement, it's probably a comprehensive description of the party's attitude. But for the parents who accept these offers, it's not a supplement, but an alternative. And that's what's the whole point, that there should be alternatives. Also for the workers' party councils that over the years have sent their children to Steinerskolan – it occurs in the best circles – I assume that there has been an alternative and not a supplement. And you've chosen it deliberately because you thought the kids would get better and get a better learning process that way. There are many countries — including our Nordic neighbourhood — that have a long experience of accepting minority schools for Jewish children, for Muslim children and for other minority groups. You don't have to go beyond the borders of Sweden. And there is nothing to suggest that the integration of minorities is worse in Sweden than in Norway for that reason. On the contrary, all the research available in this area suggests the opposite. Where parents feel secure in their choice of the school they send their children to at the nursery, integration into the big society is better. Similarly, a recent research report in Sweden, which now has seven times as many students in private schools as in Norway, shows that in all the municipalities in Sweden where private schools have been established in the last eight years, there has been significant progress in public schools, which has improved qualitatively for that reason. Then why are you afraid that the Norwegian society will crumble and go up in the glue, when it has not been proven to have happened in our nearest Nordic neighboring country? Finally, I am pleased that the Council of State landed as he did — safely and well on the runway — after he had flown very loudly in his rhetoric, and after he had used a cartoon of what he is polishing against. But he landed well, and when the end is good, everything is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e490	Arne Lyngstad commented that I used Rainbow School in Lørenskog as an example. I did because it's a school that's established on the same ideological basis, based on ACE pedagogics. It is a school that has been assessed by the supervisory authorities. The conclusion came today — or at least it is about to be published. The education director of Oslo and Akershus – the education directors responsible for supervising private schools in general – has assessed this school and has concluded that in some areas it clearly conflicts with the objective of our education system and that it should not have been approved. That was the starting point, and what I think it's important to bring with us when we're going to consider a new school that's going to run the same type of pedagogy. Although there are different schools, teaching material is essentially the same, ideology and pedagogics are the same. That was my starting point when I used Rainbow School as an example. The whole debate is full of some misunderstanding, I feel. It has soared many beautiful honor words through the hall – Odd Einar Dørum was the exponent for it. We're going to show liberality, we're going to show honesty, and we're going to act with a Christian mindset, it's the honeymoon that's swept through the hall. But that is not what we are discussing! What we're really discussing is whether the type of pedagogy, the type of school and the type of business meet the requirements laid down in the Private School Act. That's what we're discussing, not the honeymoon. My claim and my argument are that in many areas they are acting contrary to what is the objective of the general curriculum of primary school, and also to the curricula. And they give – as I said – ‘blank’ in the Training Act in terms of the requirement of educational staff. That was the starting point, and that is what we need to assess – not the question of liberality, Christianism or honesty. I regret if the conclusion of this debate is that it will be more or less automatic here, that the type of schools and the type of applications that will eventually come will be more or less automatically accepted. If that's the situation, we're on very wrong roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e503	I first want to grab hold of something the representative of Frøiland stressed. It was that these schools especially represented an extreme view of value. Who defines what is an extreme view of value – for 4.5 million people? Is it possible or desirable to adopt common values for all in Norway? That's just a little question. This school has been approved on application for life views. The application did not concern alternative pedagogics, which is the second option under the private school law, although too many seem to have wanted it. To Rolf Reikvam: When he pulls in the Rainbow School in Lørenskog, when he mixes it up into this and tries to get politics out of it, he forgets, or he lacks complete knowledge, that both the Rainbow School in Lørenskog and the private school in Skedsmo have acted as a kind of security base for students from surrounding municipalities who have been bullied out of public schools without these schools having lifted a small finger to protect these children. And it's actually also immigrant children who have moved to these life views schools, and it's working perfectly – despite the fact that the representative of Reikam obviously doesn't accept it. The aim of all training, whatever method is used, must be to prepare children for an adult and responsible life, to be able to take care of themselves and their own families once in the future. If God's Word is then to the detriment of doing this, I am unable to say anything about it. But it's obvious that others here are. When one goes further on this manic attitude of the Workers' Party and SV to private schools, not only to ACE schools, but also to montessori schools – they have the same attitude towards several of these, and they have the same attitude toward common Christian schools, which do not have ACE education – I draw the conclusion that they are against private schools, and not just against ACE education. Then one has to go in and see why they're so enormously nervous for 2 pst. of 550 000. Well, that's because we're seeing a growing parental uprising in Norway, and I'm referring to the representative of pay from Sweden – it's increasing, and it's increasing fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e521	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e524	The representative Tom Thoresen and Rolf Reikvam have both stressed and interpreted the law to the effect that each application should be dealt with in detail and separately. There's no disagreement about that. But I think it is right to point out that the Council of State in its statement, otherwise very commendable, admitted that on this point the proceedings in this case did not meet objectives, precisely because it had not entered into the dialogue in which the ministry is obliged to enter, with the applicants. I think it's very respectable of the council that he admits it. Finally, let me just refer to one of the many statements of the Council of State that have been quoted in the media, where he has polemized against exactly this type of school. In Norwegian Skoleblad nr. 4 for this year is as follows: ‘He said it would be a real pleasure to reject new applications from schools that will run ACE pedagogics.’ I assume from the statements of the Council of State today that he has at least admitted that the pleasure should be a mixed pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e553	At the request of the family, cultural and administrative committees, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President proposes that one of the independent representatives be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e562	The form field runs public administration and private business as a mare. We're probably the world's most tax-paying, tax-paying, through-regulated and controlled people, and no matter what the different governments say, this just gets worse and worse. The skembunk was huge under Jagland, it increased under Bondevik, and under Stoltenberg it seems to take completely off. Only the consequence of the last overall budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Centre comrades has imposed an additional workload of 540 million on Norwegian industry. kr, which means that the total cost to industry is applied annually through constantly new forms, has increased from 30 to 30,5 billion kroner – and this increase has only come in the last three months. This last form growth is a direct result of political decisions taken by the Workers' Party and the Centre. And someone should be required to take responsibility for this by signing out the necessary forms with their signature. The scales do not only put a high cost on business, they increase the volume of work to the bureaucracy that there is a cross-political consensus to reduce. For some, these forms have to be designed and some have to check the completed forms. So how many extra red tape hours are needed just to deal with the forms that are the result of that budgetary settlement, we'll never know. One would not think there was a shortage of labour in Norway with the crazy resource waste that lies in a form bureaucracy that grows as intact as a ferment in a heating cabinet. And what is the purpose of these forms? The forms drawn up after Christmas shall, after business has spent 540 million. kr to fill them in, feed our treasury a few million in nine months, and then exactly these forms are going to go away. But I am not a moment in doubt that they will then be replaced by new forms, if we have not in the meantime received a more conscious government. This current situation illustrates the need to calculate forms before they are adopted. I wonder if the forms that business is now raging over, and which the voters are laughing at, would have been adopted had it been prescribed in advance to calculate the impact on business accounting departments. I would at least believe that the easy money move with the following form needs that was made in a late night's hour at Hotel Oslo Plaza in November 2000, then had been somewhat more sober, to say it like that. Politicians ask for trust, and they take full voluntary responsibility for representing the voters. They must then also be able to bear in their name the consequences of the decisions taken when they impose additional costs on business. It is this responsibilities that this proposal aims to define. Actually, any new form should make two existing ones obsolete. In that case, the Agency’s strategy would be targeted. Actually, all the departments should have a schematic account, as well as an economic account, to present each harvest. Everyone seems to agree that the form field needs to be reduced. Nevertheless, it is so difficult to get it implemented. If the primary responsibility for drawing up the forms also had to be confirmed by signature, then perhaps both politicians and bureaucrats would think twice before adopting or supporting proposals that trigger new forms. Yeah, maybe that would even lead to a mutual competition about who could get rid of the most forms during a fiscal year. So a schematic account doesn't just have to be a rice behind the mirror. It could be an inspiration to really get started on the form boards and cut them down to the strictly necessary. Maybe we also got rid of some of these idiotic regulations that are just for the sake of people, and that nobody really sees the need, except the form producers and the controllers, but they could easily be relocated into the working life screaming for the labour force. One of the first things I learned as a public choice was the need to distinguish between ‘need to know’ and ‘nice to know’ – do not call for investigations, do not ask for information that is not strictly necessary, it increases the amount of bureaucracy and, in our case, the volume of work and contributes to the withdrawal of resources from productive work and the provision of services for desert-free paper processing. This simple basic knowledge was more likely here in the house and in the bureaucracy that should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e588	The working party agrees that the amount of forms in the public administration should be limited. At the same time, it is important to see that reporting is also involved in ensuring a good and fair overview of society’s overall activities, such as: the taxes and charges to be borne by the State from business and private individuals. Therefore, it is important that the debate on the so-called form field does not construct a black and white image of what is an important control function for the state. But we recognize that today the amount is too large, and so we have to make sure to get the number down to a decent level. In this case, the Workers' Party is committed to reducing reporting requirements, so that we achieve what is agreed on, better and simpler framework conditions for business. Therefore, a reduction in the reporting requirements is an important part of the renewal project of the Government. We know that we are working very well and specifically to remove many of the triggering functions on the basis of which so many forms are produced. The error with the measures outlined by the Right and the Advance Party is that they will not limit what they call the Form Field. However, there is reason to believe that a model where you have to visualize the cost of each new form will lead to more bureaucracy and not less. We therefore want to focus on the rules on which each reporting form is based. Here we, Stortinget, also have a responsibility. By eroding the laws and regulations, we impose new regulations and new reporting requirements on the agency. Therefore, this is not just a ministerial responsibility, but something that this assembly should also be aware of. The proposal of the Right and the Advance Party that the Council of State should personally approve each new business form will be a red tape of the political leadership of a department. This is to misunderstand the responsibilities and trust that will exist between politicians and expertise. In our opinion, in very many cases it would be a hopeless job for the Council of State to assess the professional consequences of a form for business. This will make the Council of State an inspector and not a political actor. The Government's renewal program has now started. The Labour Party is aware that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is running a pilot project which belongs to the business community prior to changes in rules. The working party is aware that the results of this experiment are very good. In addition, as late as 26 March 1999, the Stortinget unanimously adopted the following: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up efforts to reduce the scope of laws and regulations that business needs to deal with. In particular, the Government is asked to assess all economic and administrative implications for business before the introduction of new laws and regulations.» The Labour Party therefore considers that the Government should have time to assess the most sensible and targeted measures in relation to the decision taken at the time. New hastening decisions could interfere with the work now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e604	There is reason to pay tribute to all those who contribute in some way to reducing the form field and unnecessary red tape in public administration. Most of us have listened for years to frustrated and stated business managers, especially in small businesses and businesses, who have had to use weekends and holidays to fulfil the obligations imposed by the authorities. Although calculations have been tried, hardly anyone has a full overview of what this has cost society and the individual, not only in the form of lost value creation, but also in the case of wear and tear on the body and soul and family life. It is therefore necessary to continue this important work until conditions are acceptable, both from the business side and from the public. No one will deny that society also has a vital need to record what is happening in all business activities and that this needs to be achieved in some way. But there is no doubt that this has evolved over the years to be a crag around the foot of many, not least business managers, and it is also doubtful whether this complicated bureaucracy has benefited the public interest. I think it's hard to prove that it does. It was against this background that the Bondevik Government launched the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme in 1999. This programme covered three main areas of activity: cleaning up and simplification of the regulatory and regulatory framework, simpler administration and greater freedom for municipalities. As stated in our comments, the first reporting, carried out in January 2000, showed that the progress made on some important projects for business was not good enough. Simplification work had, in fact, been put under considerable pressure in central government. So, the NHO, the NHO, has recently produced a status report, «A simpler BusinessNorway? – word or action – what has happened?”, which shows that ‘after the government took over Stoltenberg in March 2000, and incorporated ‘Simplify Norway’ into ‘this government’s public sector renewal project’, the simplification work that is important to businesses has been stopped or much delayed’, according to this status report. In that case, it means a setback for business. I just note that this is said on the part of the NHO, and I would like to ask the Kosmo State Council here today to comment on the NHO statement on this point. In line with this, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have also put forward proposals in the position where a request from the Government will carry out simplification work as soon as possible, which is important for the companies through sub-projects in a simpler Norway, which have been scrapped or severely delayed. I assume that this is a proposal that several other parties can also subscribe to subsidiaryly, so that it can help to increase the pressure on this important process. With regard to the draft document by the representatives of the Party of Presidents, there is every reason to show an understanding of the matter at hand. In concrete terms, the Christian People's Party would agree that it is important for the Government to establish a system for investigating the economic impact of the introduction of new forms on business. The proposals for the personal approval by the Councils of State of any new form to be used by the Ministry could also have a certain effect. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it should be up to the Government itself to consider whether they will organise the work of cleaning up the form field in this way. The same applies to the proposal for the personal approval of new forms to be applied to business by heads of state. It is clear to the administration whether they consider it appropriate to establish such procedures, but this is considered to be of the kind that the ministry and the administration themselves must address. The key objective is to facilitate the daily lives of managers and employees, not least small businesses and businesses, and to provide more efficient but affordable bureaucracy and less form fields. Which roads lead to this goal, we have to live with the fact that there is still some disagreement about. With this I address the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e623	Ola T. Loans have taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e626	The form field costs a lot of money to the business community. In particular, the form field affects small and medium-sized enterprises, which must spend a disproportionate amount of time and resources responding to the same tasks as larger enterprises. The form load on Norwegian enterprises corresponds to over 7 000 annual works. The main business organisation has estimated that the meeting of Norwegian companies with public bureaucracy and form fields costs approx. $30 billion a year. Per. On 31 December 2000, 649 different government forms were registered in the Task Register. Work on reducing the form field has so far failed to produce results. In recent years, there has been a net increase in the number of state forms. In Document No: 8:87 for 1999-2000 proposals are made for each State Council to personally approve and sign any new form to be used by the Ministry in relation to industry. On the basis of the approval of the Governments, an analysis of the economic impact on industry of the form shall be prepared for each new form. The aim is, of course, to increase political attention to the negative consequences of the form field for the creation of value in enterprises and raise the threshold for introducing new forms. Similarly, it is proposed that the senior executive of the state budgets should personally approve and sign any new form to be used by the establishment in relation to business. The business federation and the NHO have expressed support for the proposals. The works association has pointed out that the same requirements should also be set when revising existing forms. Other measures will also be necessary to reduce the form field. Right will point to the following: As a general rule, any proposal for a new form, new law or regulation shall be accompanied by proposals to remove another one. For the annual presentation of the State budget, a summary of the number of forms, laws, regulations and administrative provisions in business must be drawn up for each department. I should also like to refer to Document No. 8:1 for 1999-2000 where representatives Per-Kristian Foss and Ansgar Gabrielsen from the Right asked the Government to take action to reduce the form field and the number of laws and regulations that business needs to deal with. There were a lot of suggestions there. I'll mention some of them: Arrangements shall be put in place to reward employees in public bureaucracy and administration promoting feasible proposals for simplification and removal of unnecessary forms, laws and regulations. As a general rule, any proposal for a new form, new law or regulation shall be accompanied by proposals to remove another one. In order to make it easier for businesses to keep their overview and to adapt their own procedures, two annual publication dates are set for tax regulatory and regulatory changes with implementation two months later. The business register in Brønnøysund’s work on coordinating forms from different public bodies needs to be strengthened so that the public does not demand the same information several times. It is particularly important that the collection of information by the Statistical Centre is included in this work. The majority rejected this proposal when it was examined in Stortinget, cf. Inner. S. No 47 for 1999-2000, and said it was satisfied with the government's work in this area. The right is not satisfied with the work being done in this area, but believes it is necessary to put stronger searchlights on it. On the part of the Labour Party, Mr Tariq's representative has almost become dismayed that this proposal will lead to greater bureaucracy. If signing new forms is going to be such an enormous workload for each State Council, it does show that the number of forms is too large and that the time and resources of industry are too cumbersome when new forms and new rules are being introduced. We believe that there should be a reduction in the form field and that it is necessary to take action in line with the proposals in this Document No. The 8th proposal, and to the extent that it also refers to what has been promoted by the Right, in Document No. 8:1 for 1999-2000. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party: ‘The Ministry is asked to take action to reduce the form field in line with the proposals in Document No. 8:87 [[1999 - 2000]] At the same time, I signal that the Right subsidiary will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. All measures that can help to simplify and reduce the form field are good. In this context, at least the proposal of the centre parties is a step in the right direction. I also take part of the signals from Ola T. Loan as positive, pointing out that some of these measures should be implemented by the Government itself. It connects to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e664	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e667	There were many wise words in the speeches by representatives Trond Helleland and Inger Stolt-Nielsen that I will not repeat too many of, but we agree with the main points of view that were taken in the field. It's with mixed emotions The progress party is related to the setting we're dealing with today. As author of Document No. I am pleased that the Right and the independent representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, are in agreement with us on our whole proposal, that we see the need to get rid of the form field, and that we see the need for a very strong lynching in order to address the problem. We are also pleased that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party agree that a system of economic analysis and investigation of the economic impact of new forms on business must be put in place. This would be lacking only in a situation where paper mills charge companies over 30 billion kroner a year in costs and over 7 000 annual works! The working party and SV are definitely the most victims of action in this case. It refers to the Government’s public sector renewal project, a project that has so far become little more than beautiful words and speeches. And then, behind the unanimous decision of the Stortingen on 26 March 1999 to intensify the work towards the form field, is covered. The size decision is referenced in the setting. For this reason, the Workers' Party and the SV consider that new decisions are unnecessary. My claim is: it is! New decisions are needed. Despite the unanimous decision to increase the form field only. In the year in which the Storting took its decision in the spring, the number of forms increased from 628 to 649. The rapporteur pointed out further increases that have occurred in the subsequent period. My claim is that there is no one in business who has noticed the consequences of Storting's decision. At least it shows the feedback we get from the business community. The proposals of the Progress Party and the Right must be called drastic, but I am not in doubt that they will work. The representative Tariq considered that the proposals would lead to increased red tape. I would like to admit that they will lead to more work for some leaders and governments, but for those for whom it is important to protect, namely business, the proposals will in the long run lead to a reduction in the number of annual work for this unproductive activity. Finally, I understood the representative of Greece that right-wing subsidiary will support the proposal of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. I assume that the voting can be put up so that the Advance Party can also have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e686	This is an important matter. If you look at the setting, the setting is split into three. It must not be interpreted to mean that not everyone is concerned with reducing the form field. I would say that, in particular, those parties that want a strong public sector should be extra alert to the development of a large and hopeless – to use that expression – bureaucracy, which makes people feel alienated from the administration. It's very important. And I'm sure the Council of State also sees that if you're not alert to the development of a large and unmanageable bureaucracy, you'll get completely different political forces that won't exactly strengthen the public sector. That's why it's very important to get into this seriously. That's what the central government did. And in fact, if you're going to simplify a bureaucracy, there's a lot of paperwork related to the simplification procedures, and to clarify what can happen. That's what the central government did. It presented a proposal for ‘Simplifying Norway’. I think it is important to be able to move on with the work that has already been done. For example, in the proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the representative of the Coastal Party, Mrs Inger Stolt-Nielsen, it says.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «For the annual presentation of the State budget, a summary of the number of forms, laws, regulations and administrative provisions in the business sector shall be drawn up for each department». Whoever's been at the center of government knows that it's going to be completely unmanageable. That is why it is good that there is no majority in favour of such proposals. But I'm going to challenge the Council of State to go on with the work that the central government actually did, and therefore also prevent unnecessary new paperwork from being started in terms of simplification, because it also requires quite a lot of going through everything that exists, and so it did the center administration. I hope that it was not in vain, and I hope that the Council of State will take up the challenge and look at the possibility of moving forward with the scheme that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e700	I agree a hundred percent with Anne Enger Lahnstein's representative when she says that at least the parties engaged in a strong public sector must also be concerned that the public welfare systems meet the needs of the population and are able to manage them in such a way that it provides good welfare and does not create unnecessary bureaucracy. That's why I don't mind any of the points or sub-projects listed in the project that the central government started and got implemented, which went to a simpler Norway. So we're trying to follow up those points, but we want to go a little bit further. As we will see from the Government's Public Sector Renewal Action Programme, we have two main fields of action in the nine programme areas we have presented. One of the main areas of action is to look at the governance structure. It is quite clear that the distribution of the administrative structure is in Norway — in a general Norwegian state, 50 state institutions are represented, and all have tasks that lead to activities that hit either business, municipalities or individuals, to which it is to be replied to — this creates a huge form of form, and it creates a large bureaucracy. So we have to do something about the management system that creates all of these rules and this system. Just removing a rule or a form won't help, if we don't do anything about the system that produces this. The second main area of activity is the project which is a direct follow-up to the project ‘Simplify Norway’, legislative changes — legislative changes in the relationship between the State and the municipality, between the state and the business community, and indeed within the country, because many of the forms and reporting requirements that are being made require enormous administrative extra work in the country. But also there I am concerned that there is something called legal certainty; there are some obligations that the government has to follow up the decisions taken in the Stortingen by law and regulations. We can't just ignore it. That's why we have to present complete schemes that make us achieve all of these things at the same time. It must also be clear that the Storting must have the full right, either by law or by other means, to take decisions that are of such a nature that we need to implement schemes that require red tape, and that require that there are some who report back on how the single decision of the Storing works, such as: in the case of a budget. It's part of our democracy, and we still have to live with it. But it's quite obvious that there's a lot that's been done, and there was a lot that was done with the work the center government started. We've done a great deal to get regulatory changes and regulatory simplifications over the time we've been sitting, and we'll do more. Although we do not want to be so zealous about reporting back to Stortinget, it is quite clear that, in the context of the Stortingen annual budgetary proceedings, it will be natural for us to give feedback to the Stortinget on how this is going in general. Let me end by saying that I am familiar with the NHO report. The investigations NHO did — if I remember correctly, and I think I do — and that was the basis for that report, moved a few months into our reign. Most of the information underlying this report was from the time before the Workers' Party took over the government power. But the big, wide-ranging political issues are really completely independent of who has the government power. There's no one to knock on the chest and say that they're better than others. Here we have a job to do all of them. When the NHO report is to be followed up in the autumn, I hope that we will be able to show results, both as a consequence of the central government programme on a simpler Norway and the worker party government programme on the renewal of public activities. All the numbers I have an overview of today indicate that it is going the right way, but no one should believe that we are finally in the goal. This is a work that needs to be continuously followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e721	As I pointed out in my main post, there is a unanimous decision in the Stortinget on 26 March 1999, and that is also referred to in the vote. Despite this, there is a great deal of evidence — the figures that have emerged in the media and the figures that emerged from the case rapporteur — that we still have an increase in the number of forms. My first question to the Council of State is: When can we expect concrete effects of what the departments are doing to reduce the form field? My second question is from the Week of Economics Friday, August 18, 2000, where it says: "Knudsen makes form fat rules" This is not about Mr Knudsen, but about Minister of Industry Grete Knudsen, who wants to make the formula for bureaucrats. It further states: ‘The rules shall be clearly visible at all State offices where forms are produced.’ Some of the purposes are also to simplify the forms that are being created. I wonder if the Council of State can tell me how far this work has come, and whether these formula rules are now hanging in all public offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e742	It's a little difficult for me to answer directly to a question that really should have been addressed to another state council, because this was an output from Grete Knudsen. I hope that the representative understands this when I say that the rules and the form requirements for business as a result of business decisions are a responsibility attached to Grete Knudsen. But of course, I'm going to make sure that in another context I have the overview that is necessary to give a correct answer, so that I'm not accused of coming up with bold words and big parties from Storting's pulpit. I have to say that I noticed the use of words in the main posts of the representative. I would also like to say that the best way we can actually use to ease the pressure on business in communication with the public sector to provide the public sector with the information needed to drive this society forward is to speed up electronic processing and day-to-day management. It allows business to exchange information and forms with the public through electronic processing. In this way, you can really get the simplification that business is asking for. We are doing this very well. There is something that needs to be solved in connection with this, for example: the electronic signature, but we have an ambition that during 2003 most of the communication between public and business should be done electronically. It will be a great revolution and a great improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e754	I have to complain to the Council of State if he feels offended by what I said about party speeches and bold words. What I want to achieve is that when you make claims and promises without doing anything to follow them up, I think this is a correct description. I also understand that the Council of State cannot respond to this in concrete terms, but I assumed that he might be able to respond to this with the formula rules, as he is also working on simplification in the state apparatus. I can put the question into practice. If these rules are completed, I assume they are also in the State Council's own department. Has he seen these rules hanging in the offices of his own department?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e759	The President will remind the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e762	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e769	I don't feel offended. I am concerned about this work and am trying to get results. Some of these results are actually going to be presented during the spring, when we're going to discuss the relationship between government, big business and municipalities in terms of giving municipalities greater freedom of action. There will be quite a number of dozens of rules and regulations that will be proposed to be removed. I'm looking forward to that debate in Stortinget like a little kid. This also has a bearing on how the Storing should act and govern in relation to other management and business, and how, through its mandates, it actually helps to develop bureaucratic governance models. I just have to admit that I have not or have seen such a poster on simplifications as the representative Knudsen asks for, but I actually have a poster on good administration, which goes on how we can make sure that the administration is able to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e776	It is nice to hear that both the government party and the centre parties are busy getting reduced form fields. It is not so incomprehensible that none of these parties wishes to accept responsibility for the form explosion resulting from a settlement between these parties, with which the business community is to be plagued for a period of nine months. Then we get hope, when these nine months have passed, that one really gets started and gets done something to reduce the form field. I fully agree with the Kosmo Council when he says that there is also a responsibility on the representatives of the Stortinget not to impose and adopt laws that trigger a need for new forms. It is absolutely right that it is a cross-political responsibility that everyone has to take seriously. So I guess the Stortinget will have the chance to expect that there will be a bill change proposals where the Stortinget can consciously participate in and reduce the form field, which is annoying for all of us. Then I would like to say that I would like to give subsidiary support to the proposals of the centre parties. So the representatives of the Coastal Party, the People's Party, are going to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e783	I have no objection, on behalf of the Government, to accept responsibility for reporting back to Stortinget through annual budgetary documents on how progress is being made, and in and on behalf of the Government, to accept both the brilliance and the indebtedness associated with such reports. It seems to me to be a natural way to report back to Stortinget. But then there must be a systematic approach here which makes one relate to that reporting in the context of the annual budgetary documents. One cannot expect to report to the Grand Duchy based on surveys carried out by the NHO, and that these surveys should be the sole basis for the policies of growth and government for the further development of society in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e788	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e794	It is good to hear that at least we have a government that, unlike some representatives, is busy doing something about this, and does not hang up paper notes on a wall. What struck me, especially when I heard the Right Spokesman in this debate, was that there are obviously some people who have the impression that public bureaucracy is okay as long as it cares about other public bureaucracy. Why in the world are we going to use taxpayers' money to build up even more bureaucracy, as today's proposals would mean? It doesn't want the Workers' Party to be involved, we believe that such bureaucracy will only help to weaken the welfare state's position, but that's perhaps what the Right Party and the Advance Party are at the bottom of the line to do. ‘Simplifying Norway’ called its proposal — yes, there were only several forms and several regulations. Now the bourgeois parties will decide that this work should be intensified, so if the workers' party government succeeds as well as the central government, there are no bright prospects for bureaucracy. Therefore, the Workers' Party's view is that the only thing that helps is to do something about the systems and the need for control. It will produce results in line with the intentions of the proposal, even if the medicine of citizens is wrong. But pissing in the pants to keep the heat might be good enough for the bourgeois parties, it's not for the Workers' Party, and we've been presented with what the Council of State thinks in this area. What sometimes strikes me when we hear debates in this area is that it seems like some parties, especially on the extreme right wing, have the impression that other parties are as concerned as possible with introducing as many regulations and as many forms as possible. But now you've started a job that you might want to do for the first time, much better than what you've been able to do with any other proposal in the past. It's okay for the Storting sometimes to remind yourself that at the end of the day we have the top control responsibility and are the source of a lot of the forms and regulations that are being made, and as a result of that, we need to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e819	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President proposes that one of the independent representatives be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e828	Int. S. No 261 for 1996-97, a majority of the Committee stated: ‘The majority sees particular problems related to the situation in which a former member of the government, including State Secretaries and political advisers, goes directly back to a position of office after having resigned from his political position. The Committee sees the need to assess whether quarantine is to be introduced in such cases.» All parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party, supported that proposal at the time. It was emphasised that in such cases, there could easily be doubts as to the integrity of the civil service in relation to a new political regime following a change of government. The Committee has noted that the decision of the Storting only raised questions by allowing officials to return directly to a post in the Ministry after a period of political leadership. No questions were asked about access to the first role-change, i.e.: from office to political leadership. The types of positions it was considered problematic to return to were also not clarified. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Government in this Communication also discusses the conditions for the imposition of quarantine upon the return of a ministerial post. The Committee is committed to the development of rules in this area which ensure the cleanliness of government changes. And the Committee believes it is important that consideration be given to the fundamental condition of Norwegian parliamentary democracy for the participative and neutral functioning of the civil service. We are pleased that the Government has now assessed these questions, and that the matter is brought before the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, considers it appropriate that members of the Government or the political leadership of the departments be subject to a three- to six-month quarantine by returning to certain types of ministerial posts. The majority share the Government's view that, in the event of a return to the same department, the quarantine period should be six months and, in the event of a return to another department, the quarantine period should be three months. The Committee agrees that there is no basis for differentiating the quarantine period as a result of having been a State Council, State Secretary or political adviser. The majority of the Committee also consider it appropriate to limit the quarantine provisions to those who return to ministerial positions in a direct advisory relationship with political management, and to agree with the Government's assessments in this area. It is appropriate, in the Committee's opinion, to reduce the quarantine time in that kgl. the resolution appointing the Council of State and the Secretary of State for political advisers in the letter of addition. The Committee asks the Government to implement the proposed measures as soon as possible. We also point out that in 1997, the Stortingen asked the Government to develop guidelines that could help to draw up clearer boundaries in the relationship between the government and other heavy social actors and interests. The Committee has noted that the Government of the present Communication has delimited the theme of staff transitions and agrees to this. We believe that the exchange of personnel between the public and private sectors has many positive aspects and sees it as important not to build unnecessary barriers to the transfer of personnel between the public and private sectors. However, transfers of personnel between the public and private sectors may in some cases also be problematic, for example: by providing access to sensitive or strategically important public information to private interests. This may be done by the transfer of an official or official to businesses with interests related to his former State employer. In Norway, as opposed to a number of other countries, general rules have little been laid down in relation to such staff transfers. The Committee endorses the Government’s review for various reasons which it will be important for the State to take care of in this context. We have also noted the Government's review of the existing legislation regarding professional secrecy, loyalty obligations, abuse of authority, flexibility and access to redundancy during the period of notice. The Committee agrees that, in addition to the existing legislation, further measures are necessary to prevent situations in which transfers of personnel may allow private operators access to sensitive and strategic public information and where the general confidence in the objective and unhindered behaviour of central government is impaired. The Committee has noted that there are no rules allowing the possibility of a refusal of contact and agrees with the Government's assessment that such rules could be difficult to practice. However, the Committee agrees that imposing a prohibition on a person is an instrument of strong intervention in the wider career of the individual, and that such an instrument should only be used where there is a significant disadvantage for the State that the former employee uses his or her understanding of the subject matter, or that it confers a competitive advantage on a new employer in relation to others. The Committee assumes that the Government will, where appropriate, come back with legislative proposals for a ban on the aforementioned premises. The Committee considers quarantine to be an appropriate instrument and asks the Ministry to ensure that a standstill period of three to six months is put in place before a new position or own activities can be taken in specific areas. I would also refer to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e873	In a living democracy, institutions and bureaucracy are the main tools for policy-making. Equally important are the constitutional guidelines in the relationship between politicians and bureaucrats. Ever since the introduction of parliamentaryism, the senior management of the office has taken its legitimacy from the Stortinget. As is also pointed out in the Storing Communication, the border between the political and bureaucratic decision-making systems ‘throughout the Council of States, which has a dual role as a bureaucrat and politician’. In order to succeed as the political leader of an office, the Governing Council must be able to rely on the knowledge and expertise of the bureaucrat to be given to the political leadership of the department. Here it is important to distinguish between the party political exercise and the function of the State Council as the Ministry's external ambassador. A mix-up can quickly lead to a weakening of the objective discretion set by the law on bureaucracy. This is an important principle in the Norwegian administration. Although political leadership in a department is running, bureaucracy remains. It's not like that in every country. In the United States, large parts of red tape is changing in the event of a presidential change. In Norway, the fact that red tape has never gone as far as replacing red tape with government change is probably due to several factors. There is reason to claim that this is historically conditional. On the one hand, there has been a need to use the power of experts rationally, while the traditions of a strong central power have always been important – ever since state formation in 1814. In combination, these forces have helped to lay the foundation for a very capable and loyal office, which has acted neatly in relation to the sitting government. Norway has had very few, or almost no, problems with transitions from employment in the state administration to the private sector. As the Committee points out in its comments, this may be a problem if you have access to information that could harm the State. In some other countries, the purchase and sale of state information is a good store. The causes of such a culture – or maybe I should say unculture – are often different and complex. Without going too far in generalising cause and effect statements, I believe that one of the main reasons for the absence of such cases here to the country is that there is little labour penetration in the workforce. This trend is changing, and more and more jobs are shifting from employment to the private sector. This is why it is right and important to create a clear borderline in order to ensure continued high levels of confidence among the population and politicians. One of the main pillars of the rule of law is a free and independent bureaucracy. That's why the good culture that our government has built up is important to take care of. For this reason, it is absolutely necessary to act before a deterioration occurs. The measures proposed by the Government in this paper shall prevent and prevent such developments. It is, with the eyes of the Labour Party, a pleasure to record a broad political consensus on the measures proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e891	In the communication on the relationship between the civil service, the political leadership of the ministries and other social actors, the government makes a constitutional upswing, which is both timely and clarifying. The notification can best be characterised as an ‘ordering agency’ from the opposition parties at Stortinget in the period 1995-1997. The background of Storting’s orders to the Government from these years is briefly described in the communication. One was the so-called letter case in which the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party addressed himself in writing to a Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office and asked for material to be used in the election campaign, and where that Secretary of State forwarded the letter to the departments with a request to reply directly to the Secretary of the Party. The second case referred to a concrete change of role in the spring of 1997, when a person changed from office to political management and returned to office. On the basis of a proposal from Lendens Lars Sponheim and after a part back and forth between Storing and the department, the Stortinget reached a unanimous decision. In this Decision, the Government was asked to develop guidelines that could help to draw up clear boundaries between civil service and political management and with other heavy social actors and interests, as well as to assess quarantine provisions. I also refer you to the good report by Mr Trond Helleland, and I do not think it is necessary to say so much in relation to what is in the position. But it is Christian People's Party's assessment that the government in this message has consistently made good and balanced balances in relation to the issues in question. There is reason to stress that it was most necessary to require such a review after the events referred to in the introduction. It is also to hope that this review can lead to greater care for the future, regardless of the grouping from which the government may derive. It is important to avoid weakening the confidence of the population in the integrity of central government. It's solid. The setting also shows that there is a cross-political consensus on this. I therefore find no reason to go into the various issues discussed in the communication – they are OK. In the notes, an overall committee has made the necessary clarifications. With regard to the two proposals of the Progress Party, the answer is that one considers it neither appropriate nor required to establish such high barriers between government and political management as have been proposed. The principal and practical guidelines and proposals for quarantine rules, etc. which is outlined in the communication, appears to be both well-founded and sufficient in the light of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e906	As the representative Lånke concluded, the Progress Party has put itself on a slightly tighter line. But in general, we are very pleased that this message has been presented and that at least decisions are taken in the right direction. The Progress Party believes that this is a very important matter because it is a topic that is very important to the credibility of the administration – quite simply. A real clean-up of these kinds of issues is crucial to the credibility of management and not least independence. As Lånke was also involved in his post, we had several unfortunate cases in which employees in the department have had a too close connection to the government party, and where employees have changed sides from one day to the other. Such transitions are very unfortunate and are in the process of weakening the credibility of government, and not least the reputation of most people. The introduction of clear rules of play between the civil service and politicians is essential for people to have confidence both in the political system and in the administration. The fact that there are many old ‘partisan pomps’ in important posts in the departments could contribute to speculation that we might have a political office. Introducing a clear distinction will also be very positive for the government itself, because they cannot be accused of having a political connection. It will ensure the independence of the civil service. The Progress Party believes, as I said, that there should be some stricter rules than the rules for which the rest of the Committee is in favour, in particular for the transition from the Office to political positions in the departments and vice versa. The Progress Party will point out that today there is a ban on employees in the departments being able to make deposit-taking choices according to the Basic Law § 62. Nevertheless, it is fully legitimate for them to become the Council of State, the Secretary of State or the political adviser. According to the opinion of the Progress Party, it is probably so critical that senior officials in the departments move to political positions as it is that they become magnificent representatives. Nor do I see any reason to elaborate on this issue any more, and I will simply end by addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e921	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will announce that the called alternate of the Rogaland County, Olaf Gedrem, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e926	I wasn't going to take the floor in this case, but when I first got it, I just wanted to clarify what I said in the previous case, because there I pointed to the concern I have for a bureaucracy that seems inaccessible to people. I would then like to take this opportunity to make it clear that of course I see that bureaucracy is necessary and important in a society like ours, and that we also have excellent, competent professionals in our office and in our bureaucracy. I also have the experience of being completely loyal to the ministry – of course. Nevertheless, I think it is important to get this clarification in the matter we are dealing with now. I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, and I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e935	Let me first say that I am pleased that there is such broad and general support for the principles set out in this document. While we were going to answer the questions asked by the Storting, we also took the opportunity to review some principles that should apply in the management of the relationship between policy and management. I am pleased with the opportunity to present these fundamental views on this important issue, and at the same time to get the excitement in the Stortinget that we have received, on what we believe to be the rules of the game. Then I allow myself to say that I am both proud and impressed by Norwegian government. I don't think I'm going to be able to explain either the social policy stance or the party-political attitude to the leadership group in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, even though I've been working pretty closely with them for a year. And at no time has there been anyone who has once suggested what were political positions in the previous government. So for the administration, the population and the Storting, there's every reason to be proud of the position we have in Norway, and of the role it can play in maintaining neutrality, while at the same time performing important core tasks as a political secretariat for any government and any council. But if we are to be able to maintain the trust that it is necessary and justified to have in the Norwegian office, it is also important that we remove what may be of uncertainty, as the Storting has now agreed by ending the proposals made by the Government. Then I have to allow myself to say that in the proposal of the Progress Party – and I am not going to mention it so much – it actually says that ‘The government is asking the government to design a regulation that means that employees in the departments’ – i.e. employees in the departments – ‘cannot be appointed to the Council of State’, etc. That means that, by saying yes to it, we are imposing a ban on the appointment of the Council of State for any employee in a Norwegian department. It is not that a prime minister can wait six months to appoint him. That happens overnight, so I think that proposal will be completely impossible to deal with in relation to the right that every human being in this country has to actively participate. But then, of course, you have to be able to make demands on how to deal with the end of the Council of State. I believe that we have set proper guidelines in this document.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e949	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e963	This case concerning Aetat took up the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on its own initiative. The background was claims of possible tricking with employment figures in the Employment Service and the report from the Norwegian Veritas on the registration of placement figures that came on 18 October last year. The report revealed a comprehensive error recording of the number of communications in Aetat and concluded that the scope of over-registrations may have been 25-30 pst. of the total turnover for 1998 and 1999 and that only a small minority of the offices report having only registered intermediates which have been in conformity with the legislation. So these issues were so serious that the Committee decided to raise a case. So how could such relationships arise? In the report from Veritas, most interviewers report high pressure on the achievement of targets for the number of placements as the main reason for the registration of non-compliant communications. The Directorate of Labour points out that difficulties related to the recording of the number of transmissions linked to new requirements for conversion and efficiency have developed into something more – an unculture in parts of the building, characterized by trixing and impurity. The Committee has had both meetings and correspondence with the State Council on the matter and has taken note that the State Council has taken the matter seriously and that it has initiated a full review of Aeta's working methods, which was necessary to ensure the complete clean-up and restoration of trust in the establishment. The Directorate of Labour has now implemented a number of measures to clean up the situation that was revealed. In order to ensure that all employees understand and practice the applicable guidelines for the recording of communications, procedures and practices for the recording of communications at all Aetat's local offices have been reviewed on the basis of a separate instruction from the Director of Labour. A new review of communications was carried out between 20 November and 5 December last year, and no case of intentional misregistration was detected. Other aspects of Aeta’s registrations and statistical production have also been examined and only minor deviations have been found. In order to assess the reasons why the deviations revealed by Veritas were not captured by the established audit and control systems of the establishment, the internal audit has reviewed the quality system and other governance documents. Their report concludes that it was due to the design of the quality assurance procedures that the deviations were not captured. Disseminations were not considered a risk area and therefore the audit did not cover that part of the activity. The Committee welcomes the implementation of the actions undertaken by Aetat but considers that there may be a need for review of procedures to assess simplifications and that Aetat is working further on the understanding of correct registration. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Council of State will follow this up with the establishment. A unanimous committee recommends that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e993	The rapporteur has now presented the Committee's unanimous position in an excellent manner. Let me just add that also for the Workers' Party, this has been a very serious matter, and I think there is reason to state that we are very satisfied with the way the Council of State has cleared up the matter. We would like to refer to, for example: the thorough and rapid implementation of the various measures taken by Aetat to clear up the cover-up with dissemination figures in the autumn of 2000, to which the rapporteur of the case was quite right. Let me just say that in this regard, we have noticed that there have been no examples of deliberately cheating to ‘pain’ on the achievement of results, and that Aetat case handlers have shown full transparency to the inspectors. The review also confirmed that the legislation and procedures are and have been very complex. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State will provide for a review of established procedures to assess not least simplifications and improvements. I have also registered with satisfaction that Aetat is working further on the understanding of correct registration. I therefore believe that there is also reason to trust that the Council of State will follow up this relationship with the department. It is also reliable that the Council of State has asked the Directorate of Labour to prepare a written statement of the overall audit and control effort of the Agency and, as the Council of State says in a letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee: ‘In so far as this reveals conditions with which the Storting should be known, the Storting will be appropriately briefed.’ Finally, in connection with the further development of the Ministry’s management of Aetat — and I will refer to the Ministry’s letter of 10 November 2000 — a specific review of today’s target and result indicator will be carried out. I am pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has agreed on this point and is pleased that unhidden companies have also been used in this area, and that, as has already been said, examples of deliberate fraud have not been found. Now the press release is empty, but if there are channels outside the house, I think there is also a reason in this case to bring out the media. We're not always as happy with each other, we big-time representatives and the media, but in this case, I think it's good reason to give honor to a wake-up and ongoing press. Maybe I should have named the papers. I will not do that, but at least I will give the media credit for having also put this matter on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1013	Just a brief comment: Aetat has been taken for cheats thanks to critical journalism, and both the department and its management and employees are scandalized. I'm not going to add stone to the burden, but of course the trick that the floor has done is not acceptable. It's an unculture. But I think it speaks to the benefit of the establishment that when this became known, it immediately took the necessary grip to get things in place. It was the committee that took the initiative to bring the matter before the Storting, and I hope that it in itself afterwards is deterrent to both this department and any other agencies. It underlines the seriousness of the matter that it ended up in the main hall. The state council's resolute handling of the matter is satisfactory, and therefore from the Right we have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1022	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1036	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President proposes that one of the independent representatives be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1047	The company Moxy Trucks AS is located in the municipality of Fränna in Møre and Romsdal. The company was established in 1972. The main product has been and is a global framework-driven plant dumper. The company probably has 200 employees. Following financial difficulties, the State-owned company A/S Olivin entered the owner’s side in 1991 with 2/3 of the share capital. Japanese Komatsu held the last 1/3 of its capital. Komatsu withdrew as owner in 1997. As part of the partial privatisation of A/S Olivin, the State took over the shares of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in December 2000. After Komatsu withdrew, the sales unit was weakened. There was a significant reason for a decrease in sales volume. The company continued its production at a level that led to the build-up of stocks and to a very difficult liquidity situation for the company. The company could not function further in that situation. On the part of the company, a draft new operating model and refinancing of the company were presented. The ministry engaged Hartmark Consulting AS to carry out an independent review and assessment. The conclusion is that if a refinancing is carried out on time and adequate management resources are deployed, Moxy Trucks can be established as a viable company under given conditions. The majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, invite the Stortinget to allocate 50 million. kr in share capital and to authorise the Ministry to provide a guarantee for an operating credit of 30 million. kr and authorisation to sell the State’s shares in Moxy Trucks AS. The Right, the Progressive Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen do not support that proposal. They have their own proposals, which they will probably justify in their own speeches. Now that the majority is in favour of the proposal, it is based on the assumption that once the state is the owner of a production company like Moxy, we must handle that ownership in a professional way. This implies that one has to assess the values held by the enterprise. One has to assess the product, market and sales apparatus, and last but most importantly: the human resources and competence of the enterprise. The majority of the assessments, in line with the department and the conclusions of the consultant, are that the only realistic option in today's acute economic situation is State refinancing. But that in itself is not enough to secure the future of the company. State ownership is not a good and lasting solution for an industrial company like Moxy. Market contacts, networks and distribution channels need to be developed. A good owner shall contribute to alliance construction and product development. Therefore, it is important that an immediate start be made on collecting private owners who can provide the enterprise with these important elements and who can participate in and develop the enterprise and provide safe and good jobs in the future. Last year’s product development with a new series of dumpers as a result, which was very well received in the market, was an important factor for the majority. It would be pointless and not professional by the state that owns not to help the business to continue now, just now that the new product has come on the market and has been well received by the customers. The trustee has also been in contact with the employees and the new management of the company. Here are people who believe in the product, who see the need to convert orders-driven production, and who see the need to have private, industrial owners with good networks and to have an internationally effective sales apparatus. I would like to pay tribute to the company's human resources department, which, despite a difficult year last year, in cooperation with Aetat, used the situation for upgrading and building skills in relation to the employees. This is also an important element of the overall assessment of refinancing. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the way the matter has been handled, and for the necessary action being taken on the part of the owner in line with the consultant's recommendations, which include the introduction of a new adequate management. Under these conditions, I believe that the company can provide good, long-term and developing jobs for the benefit of both the individual, the region and those who choose to use the company's products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1075	I am pleased that a majority supports the Government's recommendation on this matter. The fact that, on a principle basis, the Progress Party is negative about the involvement of the large community in securing more than 200 jobs in District Norway should not surprise anyone, but it is worth noting. Once again we are shown that communities with problems have nothing to pick up from that party. In the farm, the principles are more important than the consideration of ordinary workers – when it comes to concrete action. The Labour Party primarily wants this type of enterprise to have private owners, but in our view, society cannot rely on enterprises that need support in a transitional phase. And that's what we're talking about in this case. The company in question must be said to be a corner stone company in the municipality of Fränna, and closure will have major consequences. For the alternative to the Government proposal, private investors are not in line to invest in new equity – the option is just closure. Therefore, I am disappointed that the Right is not more pragmatic in this matter. I would also like to refer to the report from the consultant company Hartmark Consulting – the company that has made a thorough assessment of the company’s ability to survive on a commercial basis. According to the consultant company, the company has a good product, while it seems to master the production technology. Under given assumptions, the firm will be able to be established as a profitable enterprise as from 2002, if a refinancing is implemented on time, at the same time as adequate management resources are deployed. It is this conclusion that the Government has followed up through its recommendation. It is apparent from the proposition that Moxy Trucks AS has, over several years, made significant investments in new and modern production facilities. The company has also developed a new generation of plant dumpers. The main problem is today to be found on the market side. The consultant points out that market intervention needs to be concentrated on the United States and the main markets in Europe, and that adequate distribution channels are being reestablished in the United States. According to the Ministry, it will be possible to re-establish a well-functioning sales and distribution apparatus if the company's financial base is strengthened. The Ministry sees this as a prerequisite for positive economic development. Consultation within the Committee has shown that the new management shares the views of both the department and the consultant. It was also found that the company has the capacity to build three times as many dumpers as necessary to survive. In line with the view of the Workers' Party that this type of enterprise should primarily be owned by private individuals, the Ministry is authorised to sell the State's shares at a later stage, after a restructuring has been carried out. With regard to the Right’s proposal to transfer the shares to SND Invest, there may be good reason to consider it. But the Labour Party is not prepared to go to such a step and adopt it today. The proposal is too vague for it to be adopted as a bench proposal, so I would recommend to the Right to forward it to the Government for assessment. If not, the Labour Party sees itself having to vote against the proposal. Finally, I would like to argue that this case shows how important it is that we have a political leadership that is offensively addressing the problems that arise, including in business. In this way, the Government ensures important jobs in a district that needs them, and it ensures a competence that Norway needs and may be a little proud of. The fact that a relatively small enterprise in France has been able for many years to claim among the big in a tough competition on the international market is more than admirable. I can only wish the company happiness further after this hand bill from the big community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1096	The Christian People's Party is pleased that today we are going to make decisions that can strengthen the Moxy Trucks AS. If one had not found a solution for the company and Moxy had been terminated, 300 jobs would have disappeared directly. It would have had major social consequences, because Moxy Trucks is an important corner stone company in the District of Fränna. Locally, there has been a strong commitment to saving the business, and one has succeeded. State refinancing of the company is not in itself sufficient to ensure the future of the company. In the opinion of the Business Committee, all parties have underlined that State ownership in this type of ordinary industrial activity is not a good, lasting solution. A company operating on a global market is dependent on owners who can develop market contracts, distribution channels and international networks. A large majority of the parties therefore regard it as absolutely essential for the future of the company to combine state refinancing with clear demands for immediate start-up work on collecting private owners that can contribute to this. Today, we're adding 50 million. kr in equity. This should enable the company to deliver positive results from 2002. We are opening today at the same time to sell the state's shares in the company. The new products are well received, and there is every reason to be impressed by product development. But the company needs alliances to build up a sales and delivery apparatus on the main markets. Moxy is one of two companies in Norway that manufactures vehicles. We have Think, which produces small electric cars, and we have Moxy, which produces frame-guided plant dumps, vehicles of a slightly larger dimension. Moxy represents a competence and an industry that is desirable to take care of and further develop. The competence of the company also allows for targeting the marine market and the offshore market, as the company’s own operating model suggests. The Christian People's Party expects that today's decision will ensure the continued operation of the Moxy and that it could be established as a profitable company from 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1109	What we have to deal with today is the question of whether the state should continue to put in some tens of millions and issue guarantees, which together amount to 80 million. kr, and, where appropriate, give an authorisation to sell to this company. We've got a consultation report that says a little bit about the possibilities, and we've had a review in the committee of people from both the management and the employees. As usual, the plastic sheets are full of optimism – the arrows point only one way. When you look at it a little bit historically, the arrows point completely different ways. Now there have been special circumstances associated with this company for a long time. At least state ownership cannot be said to have been an unconditional success. But now, after I understood the case rapporteur, what he called "adequate management" has come in, and it must be in contrast to the inadequate management that he has described in quite clear order in the local press up there. I feel that I have little competence to assess it as, for example, Molvær Grimstad had assessed, namely the product development, which she was «impressed over». I don't have the in-depth knowledge that I assume is common in More and Romesdal, but I think both what has been said and – perhaps not least – what has not been said illustrates in a good way that this is an area where politicians shouldn't be. But it's an election year. The reference from Molvær Grimstad to it being mobilized in the local environment also reminds me of all the mobilizations that have been every time a telephone centre has been automated in this country. Very familiar, one phone has not been automated since the morning without being mobilised in the local environment to keep the phone ladies who are sitting and studying. Should we have followed these advices, we would have been sitting and studying the whole crowd. I think it's time to settle with what goes on state ownership in companies of this type, which have only a historical justification and no commercial justification – none at all! If everything in this consultant's report is correct, we know about so many millionaires and billionaires in More and Romesdal who must have been supposed to be interested, but that's as far as I can see, just Grete Knudsen who is interested in spending money on this company, as well as someone in its immediate vicinity to be re-elected. The Council of State shall, in its IIIth order, have the power to sell the shares to the Ministry. Then I just want to say good luck! I hope it goes fast, so you limit the damage, because state ownership is obviously not preferable. I think, however, that in order to get ahead of it, it might be a reasonable idea, as a sort of interim solution, to make a transfer of the shares to SND Invest, which I experience as relatively professional in the exercise of ownership of the state. Breimo described the Right’s proposal as ‘a bench proposal’. I don't know where he came from. I do not think that proposals made in committee deserve the characteristic 'bench proposals'. Then it's just a bench proposal or the government's proposition that's on the ground. It's been pretty good time to think about, and I experience indirectly through what Breimo says, that there's not necessarily any very bad idea that comes from the Right. But so far, I will maintain the proposal to transfer the shares to SND Invest, and it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1126	The representative Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1129	In the case that Stortinget now has to deal with, the reality is that it will now be added 50 million. kr in share capital and to continue a guarantee of 30 million. kr to Moxy Trucks AS. It is not the first time that public funds are called for for this activity. I will go back in time, until 1991, when the stone company A/S Olivin went in with 20 million. kr. They got a stock increase in 1996, when the company was added another 10 million. kr. It won't stop there. The year after the acquisition of A/S Olivin Komatsu’s holdings, a further 30 million were added in 1998. kr. I want to get a little into Breimo's articles and invite us regarding our position here. Then I want to remind the representative, Mr. Breimo, that it has now been ten years since the reorganization of the Moxy Trucks, and there have been private stakeholders, among others. Danish-Norwegian Hydrema, which would enter and invest at an earlier stage. But what has the Workers' Party done in these ten years? Have they had an active involvement in opening up private capital in the business? No, there's always a suction pipe in the state treasury and in A/S Olivin to solve this business's problems. It is the only party to which the Progress Party has all the time said no. And as Gabrielsen's representative was: if what's in this consultant's report from Hartmark Consulting AS had been a reality, private investors should be in line to see the opportunities in this business to be further developed and really become something big for this region. We will soon have to learn that constantly adding state capital to private businesses is not life-creating, especially with the history that this company has. The fact is that in the case of privatisation of public enterprises, Norway is now lagging behind China. So I think we need to move on to another track now, and the Progress Party has, as I said, been consistent ever since the reorganization in 1991. We then have a proposal to issue a share issue in the company as soon as possible on the basis of the existing report. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State what has been done by the Ministry to try to raise private capital, because that should be a logical consequence of the present report. I will address the proposal from the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1147	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1150	As others have said, Moxy Trucks AS is a corner stone farm where it is located. It now has more than 200 employees and produces construction machinery. Last year's revenue amounted to about Three hundred and thirty million. kr, and 95 pst. of which came from export sales. The main markets are the United States, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Over several years, the company has made significant investments in a new, modern manufacturing plant and has also invested significant resources in the development of new product models. In the last two years, Moxy has also launched a new full-spectrum product program, and I fully agree with the representative of Kongshaug that it says it respects. As part of the partial privatisation of A/S Olivin, to which the Stortinget joined last June, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade took over almost all the shares. Since the autumn of 1999, Moxy has experienced a decline in sales volume, particularly in the North American market. This has resulted in a large build-up of stocks and a gradually very strenuous liquidity and financial situation for the company. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, as several have mentioned here, engaged Hartmark Consulting in December 2000 to carry out an independent review and assessment of the situation and plans for further operations. The consultancy company was to analyse business and market economics, business risk factors and assumptions in order to achieve a profitable business once again. In his final report, Hartmark Consulting pointed out that Moxy Trucks has a good product, and that the company seems to master the production technology. However, the main problem relates to the market side, where there is a need to replace parts of the negotiator network in the European markets, to reestablish the distribution function of the North American market and to strengthen market intervention in general. In addition, the firm's determined costs need to be reduced and an orderly production facility has to be switched over. The consultant concluded that, under given assumptions, Moxy Trucks could be established as a profitable company as early as next year if a refinancing was made in time, and that the company's management would be strengthened. At the beginning of February, a new Chairman of the Board of Directors was elected to the company, and some other changes were also made to the Board of Directors. Then the new Executive Director was hired. In my view, it was right to make these changes in the company's top management now. However, I would like to stress that the dwindling management of the Moxy Trucks must be commended for the efforts made and the results achieved in the construction and development of the company in the 1990s. The government is committed to strengthening the capital base of Moxy. Concretely, it is proposed to add 50 million. in new share capital. In addition, it is proposed to provide an established operational credit guarantee of 30 million. kr, issued by the previous owner of A/S Olivin, is continued by the State. This will enable a well-functioning sales and distribution apparatus to be reestablished, which is a necessary prerequisite for bringing the company into a positive trend. The proposed measures will be accompanied by expectations from the Ministry on an acceptable return on capital injected. I am pleased to note – when I read the position of the Business Committee – that there is a broad majority in favour of the Government's proposals. Any closure of this holding would have had major consequences in terms of job losses and loss of activity for suppliers, not only for Fräna but also for neighbouring municipalities. In addition, liquidation would cost society — the owner and the creditors — an estimated 150 million. kr. The government sees its proposal for government appropriations for Moxy Trucks in connection with the revenue that the government will receive from the sale of shares in A/S Olivin. In addition, the Government proposes that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be authorised to sell the State's shares in Moxy Trucks at a later date. After the submission of the proposition, Moxy has achieved a very uplifting trend in sales volume. The management of the company now believes that the sale of dumpers in the current year could be higher than the level of 220 units. The company also has enthusiastic employees. We have come up with a sensible approach to this matter, and I believe that through the measures that are now being implemented, Moxy will move into a sustained positive development. And finally, to the representative Hedstrøm: There has not been any private people who at this time have been open to enter the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1186	I would first like to comment on the last Council of State said, that it has been chemically pure for private stakeholders. When you have a consultant report tracking this activity, under certain given assumptions, great opportunities to be competitive in the dumped market in competition with Volvo, Caterpillar and the other big giants, there is something that is not right here. After all, on the basis of such a report, the stakeholders and the daring should have been in line to enter into capital and see the market opportunities. But I accept that there is a majority here in the main hall, next to the Government, that still and without imposing any concrete conditions will go in by 50 million. kr and continue a guarantee of 30 million. kr. But then I would like to ask the Council of State: would you give a signal to this business that it is now absolutely the last time that the state will go in with significant appropriations, so that this activity is put under pressure to develop alternatives while there is still time — if the situation would be different for the business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1191	I underlined in my contribution that it is primarily the market side that has failed, and it is also the one that has probably not received enough attention in a market dominated by some major actors. But from February this year – and perhaps it didn't get the representative with it – in fact, after we made this proposition, it has been a positive trend. We have to take that with us as something that is actually uplifting, after one has now given a completely different emphasis to the market side of the business. With regard to the question from the representative Hedstrøm about setting conditions, it is quite clear from the Government that this time it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1198	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1214	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1228	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1237	The treatment is St.meld. No 19 for 2000-2001, on the management of aborted foetuses. There have been no common guidelines, and there are therefore different practices in the different hospitals. This Communication has proposals for guidelines. The different handling has been pointed out both through the investigation of a public group and in the Stortinget. The government asked the State Health Authority to draw up guidelines for respectful and equal treatment. The previous government presented proposals for principle in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99. The government was later asked to promote the cause of the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget would have the opportunity to discuss the guidelines. The majority stressed that it should be considered that the woman should be able to choose treatment after 12 weeks on the basis of an independent initiative. It has been followed up in this message. WHO sets the limit of abortion and stillbirth after the 22nd week of pregnancy. The tomb does not set a lower limit on the right of the foetus to have his or her own grave. In case of doubt, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research assumes that the responsibility of the cemetery is to care for what the parents want. There is no rule for undeclared grave, nor any obstacle. It is therefore assumed that an agreement will be made between the hospital in question and the person responsible at the nearby cemetery. The abortion law sets clear limits for the woman’s independent right to self-determined abortion before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. In the regulations of the People's Security Act, the birth rate is after 26 weeks of pregnancy, even if the child is stillborn. Mortality before the 27th week of pregnancy is considered abortion, not stillbirth. The Richtray Works do not distinguish between stillbirth and foetuses for the payment of gravitational assistance. There is no lower limit on the payment of gravitational support for foetuses. The notification explains the medical history of spontaneous abortions and provocative abortions prior to and after the 12th week of pregnancy and explains a very different practice of handling the abortion material. In the spring of 1997, it was known that for several years a hospital had sent lists of women who had been subjected to abortions to a cemetery for identification by burial. This is a clear breach of professional secrecy, and the hospital was asked to change its routine. Monitoring of practice showed that by far the majority of hospitals destroy the material from before 12 weeks of gestation, while treatment is very different from different types of abortions and from stillbirths after 12 weeks. The variation is illustrated by the fact that a hospital puts all foetuses over 13 to 14 weeks in its own coffins on its own graveyard, while the neighbouring county hospital treats all foetuses up to 28 weeks as biological material if the parents do not ask for anything else. Sweden has a relatively consistent practice of cremation and burial or ash spreading without ceremonies unless specifically requested by the woman. The hospital should not be obliged to inform about the procedures, they believe. In Denmark, procedures for dealing with late abortions are being developed. Against this background, the Government has assessed how to treat the woman with respect and as much care as possible in a vulnerable situation. All batches want the guidelines to be evaluated after three years in order to assess whether they have acted as intended. The guidelines apply to hospitals and health professionals and apply to all abortions up to 22 completed weeks. After 22 weeks, the rules of the graviculture law apply. In case of abortion before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the foetus material is treated as biological material, while standardised written information is to be provided to the woman after the 12th week, but should not be asked. In case of provocation after the 12th week of pregnancy, the foetus is placed on a memorial site unless the woman expresses her wish to be treated as a biological material. Similarly, spontaneous abortions occurring in hospitals after the 12th week of pregnancy apply. The majority agree with the government's proposal, while a minority believe that the woman should be asked whenever she is abortioning in pregnancy, and whether it is provoking abortion or spontaneous abortion. I am concerned that many parties believe that the woman should be subjected to a so-called free choice in a vulnerable situation. The woman needs and demands to be treated with the best possible care and respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1265	The question of the treatment of aborted foetuses has been discussed by Stortinget in the past. On the basis of the Innst landfill treatment. S. No 33 for 1998-99, the Bondevik Government promoted proposals for guidelines in Ot. pp.. No 24 for 1999-2000. This was withdrawn by the government of Stoltenberg, which is now making its proposal. The difference between the proposals is that the Labour Party Government does not want women who require abortion by the end of the 12th week of pregnancy to receive some information on options regarding the treatment of abortions. So they don't have to know that they have a choice. Of course, abortions are to be treated with respect, whether they are treated as biological material or are set up in a cemetery or a memorial. It is also obvious that the information the woman should receive about the options should be standardised and written and therefore considerate also to the woman. It is not right, as the rapporteur claims, that the minority parties here want the woman to be asked and charged in this context. It is the same form of information to be made available, standardised and written, including after the 12th week of pregnancy. It's a paradox that it's the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the SV who claim the woman's right to choose, in this case what's going to happen to her aborted fetuses. The Labour Party and the Advance Party do not want women who require abortion within the 12th week of pregnancy to know that she has any choice. I can hardly see any other reason for this than that these parties want to maintain the mythology of the 12th week of pregnancy. The truth is, of course, that in no way does anything happen specifically to the foetus during the 12th week that would discriminate at any point in view of the question of how to treat the foetus after an abortion. There's no significant difference between a fetus in the 11th and 13th weeks, and there's no significant difference between the 9th and 11th weeks, for example. Foetal life is a gradual development, and the distinction in the 12th week is a purely arbitrary distinction that has been made legally by those who have felt it appropriate. It has no parallel in biology. Now women have different reactions after abortion. We know about various sleep and sorrow reactions, and one should respect the difficult situation that can result from an abortion. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that not all women should be entitled to neutral, factual information that she has a choice as to what will happen to her unborn child after the abortion. I address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1280	The representative Naess has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1283	There is a broad consensus, as the rapporteur pointed out, that there is a need for guidelines for the management of abortion material. There is also agreement on the importance of uniform handling in line with the guidelines, and that this applies to women must be met with respect and dignity, so that there is no burden on women who choose provoking abortion. During the 1998 debate, the Labour Party said that the grading of the abortion law should be used for the management of abortion material and that the guidelines should not equate abortion material from provoking abortions until the 12th week with stillborn children or foetuses until the 22nd week, as this would violate the requirement of the self-determined abortion law. As I see it, it is the same reason that now also applies, when they now propose together with the Progress Party that a clear distinction must be made before and after the 12th week of pregnancy, and that they will only give women the option of dealing with abortion material after the 12th week. They insist that abortion material be treated as biological material before the 12th week, regardless of whether the woman wishes otherwise. This implies that women should not be given the right and option to choose the form of handling before 12 weeks, neither in the case of spontaneous abortion nor in the case of desired abortions. The right also believes that the guidelines should distinguish between before and after the 12th week of pregnancy. The rule before 12 weeks shall be that the aborted foetus be handled as biological material, but after 12 weeks, the rule shall be that the foetus be placed on a burial site or herd of memory if the woman does not express her wish for a different procedure. Furthermore, we are concerned that abortion-seeking women and women who experience spontaneous hospital abortion need to be informed about the handling through standardised written information. She must give enough time to think through what she wants, and what feels right for her. But she should not be asked, as the rapporteur said. That's not right. But she herself should give notice, after receiving information, of the form of handling she wants. So the disagreement goes into the procedure before the 12th week and the woman's choice. Just because this question is so personal and private, the Right believes that it must be the choice of the woman that must be decisive. We have freedom of choice in most areas of life. In the health care community, we can choose a doctor. We have free hospital choice and not least self-determined abortion before 12 weeks. It must be obvious that women should also have the right to decide how to handle abortion material. We don't know how many people want to take advantage of the possibility of a reduction in memory before 12 weeks, but that's not the number that's the point. The main point is that the woman herself must be able to choose the form of handling that feels right for her. It is a paradox that the Labour Party and the Advance Party believe that women should have the right to self-determined abortion, but not the right to decide how the abortion material should be handled. It testifies to my view of the lack of insight and respect for the individual woman and her choices. They mix abortion law, information and women's right to choose. They want to deprive women of a personal choice in a very personal matter. An abortion, whether spontaneous or greedy, is too many women associated with feelings of loss and grief. Grief is a reaction we can't automatically choose away with reason. No, it's going on a deeper plane. The first step in the grieving process is to deal with what has happened. That's what women do in different ways. For some, it is natural and correct that the hospital takes care of the handling. For others, memory will be right, even before the 12th week. Reactions, and possibly feelings of loss and grief, depend on the individual woman, the circumstances around it, the reaction of the granddaughter, support in the community and the attitudes of society. The woman who has become part of me for 20 years as a midwife has taught me that it is only the woman herself who knows what is best for her, that only she can make this choice. This isn't about jus, it's about emotions and life's vision. The 12-week abortion limit is not a biological limit, but a legal limit in a humane and pragmatic law. As legislators, we have decided that women should decide for themselves whether to interrupt pregnancy. But life is not the same as law. There are many emotional and existential conditions outside the paragraphs of the law. To the right, this is about respecting the wishes and choices of the individual woman. Whatever view you have of the abortion law, the woman's feelings shall be respected, and she shall have the full right to decide what will happen after an abortion. I have full confidence that women can handle the emotional situation in which an abortion brings them up. It may seem that the Labour Party and the Advance Party do not have the same confidence in women. What they're doing with their proposal is taking away their women's natural right to decide what's going to happen to the fetus, and that's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1306	There are currently no common guidelines in this area. The practice varies from hospital to hospital. In St.meld. No 16 for 1995–1996, it was suggested that the State Health Authority should develop guidelines to ensure respectable and equal treatment of aborted foetuses. It has taken time, but the previous government presented proposals for guidelines in Ot.prp. No 24 for 1999-2000. This proposition was withdrawn by the current government through Ot.meld. No 2 for 1999-2000. It is against this background that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now presenting guidelines. These guidelines shall apply to hospitals and health professionals and shall be indicative. The guidelines apply to all abortions up to 22 completed weeks. In the event of an interruption of pregnancy after that period, the rule applies to the burial law. In the case of abortion before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the foetus material shall be handled in accordance with the same guidelines for the management of biological material. Women who require abortions after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy shall receive standard written information on the management of abortions and women should be given sufficient time for reflection but should not be asked. In case of provocation after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the foetus is placed in a cemetery or a memorial centre if the woman does not indicate that she would rather want to handle according to the same guidelines as apply to the management of biological material. Similarly, in case of spontaneous abortion occurring in a hospital after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. We agree with the Ministry's proposal that the guidelines for the management of aborted foetuses should distinguish between before and after the 12th week of pregnancy. The rule before the 12th week of pregnancy shall be that the abortion foetuses are treated as biological material, whereas after 12 weeks the rule shall be that the abortion foetus is reduced to a burial site, cemetery or memorial. It shall be made known to the woman in a neutral and respectful manner. Women who require termination of pregnancy after 12 weeks shall receive standard written information on the management of abortion material and shall have sufficient time to think through it so that they can choose treatment on their own initiative without being asked about this relationship. Furthermore, it is stressed by the Committee that the obligation of professional secrecy must be respected in relation to handling in these contexts. There is further reason to note that the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has said that they will facilitate the possibility for those responsible in cemeteries and cemeteries to assist hospitals with the dignified handling of aborted fetuses in accordance with the regulations of the Graveyards Act. There is also reason to stress that an overall committee has pointed out that spontaneous abortions could be a major psychological impact for both parents, and that this should be taken into account to the greatest extent possible. In the case of grief reactions related to abortion, it turns out that many women have such a reaction both after spontaneous abortion and provoked abortion, and we believe it is important that women who experience abortion or spontaneous abortion before the 12th week should also be allowed to choose how to handle the foetus, based on information given to these women in a neutral and informative way, and that they should then be allowed to have the same time as the rule after the 12th week, in order to reflect on this, and that they should be able to choose the way in which the foetus should be handled. And it's important that the woman's choices are followed. Like the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli from the Right, I want to say that this is to respect the individual and the woman, and that we should follow her feelings and choices. I don't think this is to expose the woman to undue pressure, it's to prepare the woman for the reactions that may come later, and so it must be right that we add up to a respectful and dignified handling of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1323	Most of them seem to be clear about the position of the lots in relation to the treatment of aborted foetuses. When I asked for the floor, it was because I perceived the rapporteur so that he did not understand what the minority really argues with. I do not mean, SV does not mean, and I have not understood it so that some of the others believe that one should actively ask the woman before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy about what kind of treatment of the aborted foetus is wanted. The general rule is that after 12 weeks, the foetus should be reduced to a degree of memory and treated as biological material before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. It will be only in those cases where the woman herself actively wishes for a different handling, that it will be appropriate to handle it in another way. That it should then be a burden for the woman, I think it sounds nice. If you have factual, life-vision-neutral information related to the routines in such a sensitive area that the ministry can initially design such a department it is appropriate from the guidelines, then why should there be a burden on the woman? If then the woman herself has views on this, why does the Labour Party seriously believe that the woman should be deprived of that right? I could imagine the rapporteur-in-Office justifying that. And that it would then be a burden for the woman who actively advocates another solution, it seems to me to be a wonderful way of looking at adults, independent individuals – that they should actually be deprived of the opportunity to make free choices. I would like to ask the case rapporteur once again: has she understood what the minority here is proposing? As a result of what was initially explained, it actually sounds as if the rapporteur did not understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1335	The matter that Stortinget is now dealing with has a long history, and the issue of abortion is still subject to great political commitment, over 20 years after women were given the right to self-determined abortion in Norway. There are currently no guidelines in this area and practices vary between hospitals. It is for the hospital owner to identify methods of safe handling. Women who have had abortions have usually not been asked about, or otherwise had to deal with, abortions. Tissues from early termination of pregnancy are usually treated as biological waste. Frosts from late abortions and spontaneous abortions are in many cases buried in a similar way to stillborn children, either in the memory, in the family tomb or in their own grave. In January 1998, a working group set up by the State Health Authority proposed that all foetuses and abortions should be reduced in a memory-based manner without the consent of the woman. The same rules should be applied regardless of whether the abortion occurred early or late in pregnancy. The proposal was strongly criticised for breaking the conditions for the law on abortion. In particular, reactions were strong to the fact that abortion material from foetuses prior to the 12th week of pregnancy was equated with stillborn children and tendon-born foetuses. In the same year, the majority of the Social Committee asked the government to promote the cause of the Storting so that the Storting could discuss the political basis for the development of guidelines for the treatment of abortion material. The majority of the board of directors wanted the matter to be referred back to Stortinget. The previous government presented proposals for such guidelines twice; first in the 1999 state budget and later in a report on changes in the law on transplants. None of these proposals, however, have been discussed in Stortinget. In my view, the guidelines should be related to when abortion takes place in pregnancy. WHO sets the limit between abortion and stillbirth at 22 completed gestational weeks. This means that in the case of abortion after 22 weeks, the handling of foetuses will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the gravitational code. In the case of abortions before the 22nd week, there should be a distinction at the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, in line with the graduation in the Abortion Act. Material from abortion prior to the 12th week of pregnancy should be treated in the same way as other biological material from hospital. Respect for women and the choice of women in vulnerable and difficult situations in life have been fundamental to the principles now presented. It has been stressed that there is no greater burden on women than a pregnancy interruption itself can cause. Therefore, like the majority of the Committee, the Government wishes only for abortions taking place between the 12th and 22nd week of pregnancy, guidelines should be drawn up to ensure a level playing field and respectable management of foetuses. It is therefore very important that such guidelines ensure respect for women in a vulnerable and difficult situation. The guidelines should be made known to the woman in a neutral manner. Women should be able to choose their own form of handling. It may be an additional burden for a woman to have to take a stand for the form of handling. It is therefore proposed that women seeking abortion after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy be informed by means of standardised written information, but not requested. If the woman does not express her desire to handle according to the same guidelines as for other biological material, the fetus will be reduced in the cemetery or amnesia. Furthermore, it is proposed that the State Health Authority, by virtue of its supervisory authority, draw up and transmit the final guidelines in line with the recommendations of the Storting. Since it has also been suggested in this debate that the issue is about jus, I would remind you that in this sensitive area, guidelines have been proposed which neither confer legal rights on the woman nor impose specific solutions. This means that a woman who interrupts pregnancy before the end of the 12th week may choose another solution if she so wishes. In this respect, it is not a question of depriving women of any treatment rights. The Government is asked in the proposal for a decision to ensure that the practice of the new guidelines is evaluated. The Committee wishes the guidelines to be evaluated after a three-year period. The proposal will be followed up in line with the wishes of Stortinget. The results of the evaluation will be communicated to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1352	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1355	Of course, the working party will not deprive the woman of any right to decide for herself. The working party will allow the woman to make the choice after 12 weeks on an independent basis. That's how we spare the woman, by following the law. Several political parties seem to have forgotten that fight. I don't think it's very kind to girls that, having decided to have an abortion, they're going to be subjected to a pressure to reduce the abortion material in the cemetery. The rule is that aborted fetuses are treated as biological material before the 12th week and buried in the cemetery after the end of the 12th week. When the woman then receives written information that she can freely assess, without being asked, it would be a gentle and elated way of being treated, as the Workers' Party sees it. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the Advance Party believe what they think, and that it is thus a majority in favour, and that the minority who claim that it should be a free choice for the woman has not been given any more. But I'm very surprised that SV says what they're saying here, because I actually thought SV was with us when it was self-determined abortion, and when it was about the problem of handling abortion material. I'm worried that there are forces in the political environment that are pushing to weaken women's more solar rights to self-determined abortion. It does not happen by attacking the abortion law itself, but it happens by indirect means. In practice, it becomes more difficult to have abortions carried out, and the woman is subjected to pressure even after the interruption. We think that's going too far. I refer to the matter we dealt with last week here in Stortinget, about the right of reservation in relation to the distribution of the abortion pill. I think that women who are so unhappy to get into such a situation deserve to be treated with respect and care, and that they need to be cared for in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1365	It is clear that someone is getting the spikes out in these matters, and the case rapporteur is in no way alert in this context. I need to make it clear that it's not the abortion law we're discussing right now. The abortion law has been passed by a majority, the Christian People's Party was opposed, but that's not what this is about. When the Council of State clarifies the significance of a separation in treatment at the end of the 12th week and refers to the abortion law, I do not understand what it is like for an abortion to be given an option, which conflicts with the woman's legal right to choose abortion. There's no necessary contrast here. It was claimed – it was both by the Council of State and by the case-rapporteur – that the woman should not be deprived of any rights, but she should not know that she has any choice, and then she certainly does not have many rights either. Then comes the case rapporteur with a claim that I would characterize as very inappropriate, when she claims that the woman should be subjected to pressure to lower the fetus on the graveyard. I would ask the case rapporteur to document that claim. As far as I can see, there's no such claim anywhere from any of the parties that make up the minority here. So I really want to ask the case rapporteur to clarify his claim that we want to put the woman under pressure to lower the fetus on the graveyard. That's not the case, it hasn't happened, and it won't happen either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1374	I would also like to take the floor to protest against the statement made by the case rapporteur, the representative of Gravdahl, where she says that women are under pressure to reduce abortion material in the cemetery. It is not at all in the proposal of the minority, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the SV. So the case rapporteur goes on to say that information is a gentle way to do it. Yeah, we mean that, too. But why then distinguish between 12 and 13 weeks of pregnancy for this information? Is it true that the woman is an independent person and is entitled to the same information in any case with a weekly separation in relation to how far the pregnancy has gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1381	I just need a short comment after the second article of the case rapporteur. This is where the principles of the abortion law and the woman's right to commit suicide and that part are put into practice. That's not what this case is about. We are discussing the management of aborted foetuses and whether there should be a distinction in the 12th week of pregnancy. That is the opinion of the Committee, that is the comment which is there. The party of progress has stood and stands for its choice. It is quite clear that here there is a minority and a majority in this case as to whether there should be a distinction before and after the 12th week of pregnancy. The point of view of the Party for Progress is that such a distinction must be made. But let's not start mixing the abortion law into this, then we're on wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1386	The applicant's rapporteur has defyed the line of argument which is made very clear by the fact that the Progress Party, which forms the majority with the Workers' Party, also departs from that type of consideration. I thought that was both clarifying and good to hear. SV has been and will always be a defender of the abortion law we have. We have no desire for it to be weakened in any way, or for other ways to seek to take a position in relation to, for example, the problem. this case which should be suitable for weakening it. Such a claim is really quite monstrous, I would say. It would have been appropriate if the rapporteur had moderated some of the statements that have fallen here in the Chamber today. This is the case for SV, in the same way as for the law on self-determined abortion, is to respect the woman's free choice. We've stressed very strongly that the information we're going to be talking about here should be both life's vision-neutral and written in such a way that no one should take offense at it. That means that the general rule, which I think will be followed in all, most of the cases, is that the abortion material by abortion before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy will be treated as biological material. So maybe there'll be isolated cases where some people express their desire for something else. SV says that they should be able to respect their wishes in that case. Is it that hard to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1393	The council said that it was not about taking away the woman any right to make this choice yourself. If he meant it, it's a pleasure, because what's going on is the choice of treatment before the 12th week. So if he thinks that the woman should also have an option there, that's good. But I'm afraid the joy was very short. When the President-in-Office of the Council took the floor, I was unsure whether we were dealing with the same matter. It is not the abortion law we are dealing with today, but there are guidelines on how the abortion material is to be treated and the woman's right to choose the form of treatment. For the right, what I said is, of course, that the woman should also have the right to decide how the abortion material should be handled, and the main point is that she must choose herself. I still think that there is evidence of a lack of insight and respect for the individual woman and her choices as the Labour Party now argues. They mix abortion law with information and women's right to choose in such a personal case as an abortion is. Because, as I said, this isn't about jus, it's about emotions and life's vision. And life is not the same as law. The right respects the wishes and choices of the individual woman and has full confidence that women can cope with this situation. I record that the Labour Party and the Advance Party do not have the same confidence in the women. What they are doing now is to deprive women of the right to choose their own procedures for abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1400	At the end of this debate, I would like to contribute to extending the joy of the representative, Sjølis. That's, as I said in my first post, here's about designing guidelines that will ensure an equal practice at our hospitals in this slightly sensitive area. It is not a question of introducing new rights in a legal sense. Nor is it a question of depriving any legal rights. Then there's a question here about why you connect a distinction up to the 12th week of pregnancy with reference to the abortion law. The background is that before the 12th week of pregnancy, there is free abortion in Norway. It also means that the person seeking abortion in such a situation should be able to obtain it without being asked any question regarding, for example: requests for the handling of aborted material. But as the representative Ballo says, there could also be a few cases here where the woman herself actively wants a specific handling of aborted material. I believe it is quite obvious that this type of wish should be fulfilled. In this respect, there must be no doubt that those who wish to have a specific handling of aborted material during abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy will also have their wishes met. There is nothing other than to define specific guidelines for the information to be provided on the possibilities after the 12th week of pregnancy until the 22nd week of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1410	I'm glad the minority has made it clear that they don't want the woman to be subjected to pressure. Then we are in complete agreement. In the vote, the majority of the person with an abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy explains whether it is a provocative abortion or spontaneous abortion. During the treatment in the Storting of Innst. S. No 33 for 1998-99, the majority asked that the case be brought to the Grand Duchy in order for the Grand Duchy to be able to discuss the design of such guidelines. The majority clearly stated that a distinction was to be made between the treatment of the abortion material both before and after the 12th week of pregnancy, and that it was important that the guidelines laid down for the treatment of the abortion material should be made known to the woman in a neutral manner and that the woman chooses treatment after the 12th week of pregnancy on the basis of an independent initiative. So what the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have done is follow it as a majority in the Storting said a little over a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1417	Here, at best, the case rapporteur tries to open wide-open doors. It has been quite clear from the minority that we do not want any pressure on the woman, whether the minority consists of trailers of self-determined abortion or opponents of self-determined abortion. But it must be possible even for a case rapporteur from the Workers' Party to show respect for the fact that even members of the minority are responsible for self-determined abortion, even if we allow ourselves to have a different view from the Workers' Party on the management of the abortion material. 'Cause I think that's a shame we still have. But there is a little hope in what the Health Minister said in his speech. I understood him so that only the woman is not made aware that she has an opportunity to choose a different handling from that of the entire Storting party to be the main rule of abortion before the 12th week of pregnancy, namely to treat it as biological material, she will have the right, without knowing it, to have the right and respect that she wants a different handling than the general rule. If it is the case that the Minister of Health believes it – which I agree he should think – then the question remains: what is the reason why the Workers' Party is today opposed to the minority's proposals, which are based on the following: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assume that the woman can decide for herself which treatment of the abortion material to be selected both before and after the 12th week of pregnancy and that she shall be informed of the possibility through standardised information.’; Is there therefore the possibility to be informed about this by means of standardised information which causes the Workers' Party to vote against the proposals of the minority? I'd like to be told that's what you're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1427	Are Næss has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1430	My concern is the same as Annelise Höghs. I perceive the Council of State so that the woman in abortion before the twelfth week will be given a choice. She should not be deprived of her choice, but she should not have any information that she has a choice. It seems to me to be somewhat contradictory. From that point of view, I believe, like Annelise Höegh, that the Council of State – and the Labour Party – should really support the proposal put forward by the minority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1435	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 2600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1460	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1469	The Social Committee has had two document No. Eight proposals for consideration. One is a public dental reform, and the other is a social security funding scheme for patients suffering from rapid or severe periodontitis. The Committee agrees that separating oral cavity disease from other diseases in the body is unnatural and unfair. According to the law on dental services, the county has responsibility for the availability of this service to the whole population. The county council is obliged to provide the priority groups with the necessary dental care, either by public servants dental practitioners/dentalists or by agreement with private individuals. The adult population pays about three times as much in proportion to public expenditure for dental treatment. The Committee asks the Government, inter alia: to assess a stepping-up plan with reimbursement of public interest based on priority treatment. The Committee also points to the unfairness of the fact that older people in institutions and users of home care services are provided with free dental services, while older people living at home with municipal home services do not receive them. The Committee sees it as a step in the right direction that a pilot scheme for the elderly living in two or three counties is planned in the State budget for this year. In this context, the Committee points out that dental care providers must be used to a greater extent than hitherto. It will release dental time and help increase treatment capacity and make better use of total care and treatment resources. This is socio-economically profitable and could lead to lower proportions of dental treatment. Cooperation between the different professional groups and between dentists and dentists from both the public and private sectors will, in our view, be a prerequisite for achieving the objective of better provision of dental services across the country. Here I would like to mention a project from my own county, Vestfold, where the health and social profession at the secondary school in Holmestrand takes dental nurses in as guides in oral hygiene. Health professionals will now have better knowledge of the importance of prevention to prevent dental diseases, which may in turn lead to other serious diseases in the body. Today, the elderly keep their own teeth. This requires much assistance for maintenance, including to prevent, among other things. misnutrition due to oral problems. The Committee also addresses the problem of dental deficiency in particular North Norway and Middle Norway. The dental resources are distributed incorrectly. Private dentists gather largely in central strata, while the public are in both central and districts — but there are too few of them in areas with a scattered population. Large replacements in the jobs mean that you get less out of a year's work. The stable dentistry in northern Norway is approaching retirement age, thus further strengthening problems over the next 10–15 years. It's been many years since the Stortinget asked the government to investigate the possibilities of setting up a dental study in Tromsø, where the public dentistry was to be focused on the teaching system. A working group has examined these issues, and the matter is nearing its decision. The entire Committee stresses that significant dental reform needs to be based on comprehensive investigations. Therefore, it is right that the economic impact of any dental training in Tromsø, an increase in dental training and an increase in reimbursement schemes for dental services should be assessed overall when budgets are presented and processed. We want a dental service where it's not just those with good advice who get proper dental treatment. Economics and residence must not be decisive for keeping teeth in order. It has been a long time since this area has had an overall review, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee believes that the prevention and treatment of diseases in the mouth must be more than hitherto equated with other health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1493	It is tempting to say that the results achieved by the Social Committee through the examination of these two proposals lead to a heavy step for the Government and a huge leap for the population. It is quite clear that what happens is getting a majority for the periodontite proposal from Øystein Hedstrøm and two other representatives from the Progress Party, is not in line with what the Government originally proposed. I note that the proposal was also discussed in 1994. At the time, SV and the Central Party joined it, while the proposal is now receiving an overall response – finally. Finally, there will be a decent reimbursement scheme linked to a condition that, on an annual basis, may incur expenses of perhaps NOK 30 000 to NOK 40000, sometimes even more. And then it's quite obvious that there are people who have that suffering, who simply haven't had the money for treatment. It will be late, but it will be well, as was said in the'skipper Worse', the action to be taken here. I get to congratulate Øystein Hedstrøm, who I see has put on the blues today. It's good that this gets into place. In the case of dental reform, it contains two elements. The proposals that I have promoted, on the one hand, seek closer cooperation between the public dentistry and private dental practitioners, as part of recruiting more people into the public dentistry, in many ways according to the model of the fixed medical system, where public health work is just to be done in combination with having their list days. I think that both private dentists and public dental staff have been too many bastant attitudes that what you do yourself has a professional level that others don't have. It is therefore important to bring these groups together in order to increase understanding between the groups and to increase recruitment to both disciplines. That is what I have proposed, and that, in addition, the possibility of balancing the differences between dental treatment and other medical treatments in terms of the social security reimbursement scheme and the cost to the individual should also be explored. The periodontite pass is just such an equalization. But I'm very pleased that the committee has come with the idea of going further and looking at other conditions in the oral cavity than just periodontite, and that the committee also believes that a public body should be set up to go through the whole issue of public involvement in dental matters. That's what I see as a saying that you've been given. I noticed that the Christian People's Party was the initiator of the committee for that, and I am very pleased about that. Then I see that there are other formulations that can help to add the leads associated with a public dental reform, which are essential. For example, the Committee says: that prevention and treatment of oral diseases are considered to be more than hitherto considered in line with other health services, and that is an important recognition. An overall committee also asks the Government to assess a stepping-up plan with reimbursement from public health based on the prioritisation of prevention treatment to stop oral diseases. So you can ask, what does that mean? Well, when talking about prevention and dental treatment, it must be the general treatment that is associated with teeth in order to prevent serious illness. And it's a kind of treatment that the whole population has to be able to make use of. I see that this is a clear lead in order to get reimbursement schemes, which you do not have today, linked to dental disease. I see that the time is running out. But there is one element on which there has been a good deal of discussion in the committee, and to which the committee notes, and that is to strengthen the training of dentists. There is a discussion about whether to open up a full dental course in Tromsø. The Centre Party and SV believe that a dental study should now be started in Tromsø, while there are other different formulations in the Committee that require the Government to take a closer look at them. In any case, I would like to challenge the Minister of Health here today with regard to the position of extending the capacity in relation to dental treatment, and ask whether the Minister of Health believes that there are currently too few dental practitioners in Norway and that there should be more training. I will come back with further comments when the Minister of Health has commented on it, related to other elements of the proposals that we have addressed. I would also like to address the proposals to which SV is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1519	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1522	It has been claimed that dental care in Norway is a health policy stepchild. Fortunately, the attention on the subject has increased during this period. The Christian People's Party is committed to prevention. We have always supported the use of most of their resources by the public dentistry for outreach and treatment of children and young people. There are probably a few areas of health care that we see as beautiful results from a leading good-looking attitude as in dental health. The need for treatment has fallen dramatically in recent years. A letter from the Minister of Health stated that in 1999 there was 74 pst. of 5 year-olds without caries, and 60 pst. of all children and young people surveyed did not require treatment. This is good! The use of fluorine and more use of dental practitioners in school health has made this possible. The Dental Association has been effective and flexible and has demonstrated the importance of ‘the right person in the right place’. Like the other parties on the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party wants access to good and equivalent health care for the entire population, regardless of residence and economy. We have been concerned with the injustice of the fact that older people in institutions and users of home care receive free dental care, while older people who live at home with only municipal home services do not receive it. The pilot scheme in two to three counties, to which the Stortinget granted funds in the 2001 State budget, is expected to start as soon as possible. The Equalisation Communication demonstrated a link between the economy, health and general living conditions. It's very negative to read that 200,000 Norwegians don't go to the dentist because of bad finances. In Document No: 8:66 on periodontitis is a clear example of the adverse outcome of the dental and other medical treatment reimbursement system. Poor dental status is available for infections in the oral cavity, which in turn may lead to poor nutritional status. It is illogical that follow-up conditions grant medical treatment rights, while diseases directly related to dental status alone do not. The Christian People's Party sees the need for a public sample to review the issue of public engagement in dental matters and to see it in an overall perspective. We believe that one should look at the organisation and reimbursement arrangements, for example. the possibility of partial participation. The establishment of universal arrangements for all will be expensive and must follow a stepping-up plan. The selection must take seriously the recruitment process. Part-time jobs with the possibility of private practice can be further developed and possibly increase the interest in public dentistry. Christian People's Party does not conclude on dental education in Tromsø. It's a big problem to get enough dentists in most counties outside the central eastern region. Swedish dentists have helped us in crises, but they are now needed in the home country. The nucleus of stable dentists in North Norway is approaching retirement age, so it's urgent to clarify it. A shared solution, a more integrated study compared to the medical faculty, can be an option. As mentioned above, the Christian People's Party will not conclude with what the sample should think about the various matters before it has thoroughly investigated them. However, we believe that periodontite patients have waited long enough for a better financing system and therefore support Document No. 8:66 proposal. We're in the majority on Document No. 8:60, and I'm just promoting the minority suggestions that we ourselves are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1554	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1557	The problems of public dentistry have been discussed here on several occasions in Stortingen. There are still significant recruitment problems, although recently there have also been some positive developments. Newly trained dental practitioners are now seeking more public jobs, not private jobs as before, and this is positive. The challenge will be to help this development continue, and not least to keep up with those in the public dentistry today. In this context, we have previously pointed to different measures and instruments and alternative models for today’s public dentistry. At the latest during the budgetary procedure before Christmas, an overall committee stated that the range of offers has now grown to such an extent that action should be taken and, where appropriate, a call for proposals related to the dental service in which various models that might be considered to be recruitment and geographically beneficial are investigated. The problems are very complex, and there is a need for a wide and thorough review of the entire public dental service. Therefore, the right supports the establishment of a sample to review public involvement in dental matters. A review of the organisation of dental care, the reimbursement arrangements we need, the groups to receive free treatment, and how to get uniform rates for dental treatment are necessary. A review there, among other things: These key issues will also provide a good basis for improving the situation. In connection with the state acquisition of the hospitals, I agree with the Government, which says in its consultation note that there is a need for an early clarification of the sector responsibility, ownership and functioning of dental services. My question to the Minister of Health is whether such clarification will come now. Several of the proposals that have been promoted by the minority in the Committee, which have been raised in the debate, will have major economic implications that we do not have an overview of today. It will require substantial increases in public expenditure on dental health and should be discussed in an overall context and in the context of the budget. Therefore, the right will not be in favour of any of the concrete proposals now, but will come back to this after the sample has examined all the questions that I was dealing with. In this way I have also seen the intention of the proposer of a dental reform and I am perhaps a little surprised that there have now been such concrete proposals, without having been a necessary review of both the needs and the economic consequences. In the right, there is a high potential for improving the supply, by better cooperation between the public dentistry and private dental practitioners. The size has also previously outlined different models to improve the recruitment of the unoccupied jobs. Dentists represent a major resource in dental care and need to be used to a greater extent than at present in prevention and health promotion activities, for example. by routine examination of priority groups. It will be able to free up dentistry and treatment capacities and in a better way than at present contribute to the exploitation of resources. It's a fact that the dental resources are distributed unevenly, especially across North Norway and Middle Norway. Right-wing believes, like the Workers' Party, the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, that there is a need for a rapid clarification of the need to increase the number of dental and dental students. In particular, it is necessary to clarify, as soon as possible, whether dental training should be established in Tromsø. In this context, it is also necessary to review the need for scientific personnel in any training in Tromsø and the implications for dental training in Oslo and Bergen. There is today, as we know, a great lack of scientific staff and a lack of recruitment. That is why it is absolutely necessary to look at concrete measures to increase recruitment to scientific positions, and I could imagine challenging the Minister of Health just that. As regards the second proposal, on social security funding for patients suffering from periodontitis, the Right considers, like the rest of the Committee, that this is a condition which should be covered by an extended reimbursement scheme. We also want a quick clarification of this issue, and are pleased that the Government will present proposals for social security funding in the budget for patients suffering from severe periodontitis as early as next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1587	I will essentially concentrate on the setting of Document No. 8:66 for 1999–2000 on social security for periodontite, or gum disease, in which the Progress Party was fully passed this time. There is a unanimous stance calling on the Government to propose social security funding for patients suffering from periodontitis in the context of the 2002 state budget. The setting is a happy message to the approx. 100000 Norwegian citizens who over the year have had problems with this particular gum disease that has led to the loss of teeth and where the full cost of treatment and dental status has been burdened on patients themselves. Many patients have not been able to bear this cost and have suffered a significant reduction in their quality of life, as the disease and toothlessness have reduced social activity and participation in the rest of their life. A proposal similar to Document No. 8:66 promoted John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party as early as 1993, but then the majority of the Storting was not mature to take the decision that has now been taken. So it's taken the Advance Party for seven years to work intensively towards this goal before one got a pass and accepted that infection in the gums should have a reimbursement system similar to any other infection in the oral cavity. Our neighbouring country Sweden has had a periodontite reimbursement scheme for the last 30 years, and it is sad to note that Norway has been a developing country for a long time in accepting that oral cavity infectious diseases should be treated equally with all other infectious diseases. It is reasonably well documented that severe gum disease develops a bacterial flora that can also lead to severe cardiovascular disease in some patients. For this reason too, Norway should have for the longest time established a reimbursement scheme for the treatment of gum diseases. In Document No: 8:60 in 1999-2000, the representative of Storing Olav Gunnar Ballo generally takes up the system we have with regard to dental services in Norway, namely that patients pay virtually all the expenses themselves. There are very few and negligible possibilities for dental treatment in Norway. Here we are also far behind our Nordic neighbouring country. The proposer in Document No. 8:60 also addresses the problems of public dentistry, with lack of dental coverage, especially in North Norway and in some outlying areas. In its comments, a joint committee recommends to the county councils, inter alia: exploit the possibilities offered by cooperation between private and public dentists in addressing the lack of capacity of the public dental service. An overall committee concludes that, in the case of a radical change in public dentistry in Norway today, this issue needs to be further addressed with impact assessments before the Stortinget can enter into reality treatment of a change in public dentistry, where self-payment for patients is significantly reduced compared to current practice. With regard to dental training and the need to increase it, the Committee does not take any position, but a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, states that a rapid clarification of the needs of increasing the number of dental and dental students is necessary. I would also like to commend the representative, Mr Ballo, for the initiative taken by the representative to have a dental reform on the agenda. In view of this, I think that this debate and the position we are holding here have led us a little further along the way, along with the proposals of the Progress Party on periodontitis. This is when you ask yourself the question of reality, when you follow some of the media debates that there are some other parties that are now going to pull this forward, and that have made a number of suggestions in the field of dental care. The case today shows that in fact in this round there are two parties that have been the ones that have been the driving force to get dental health on the agenda, and that is the Progress Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1608	The previous speaker, the representative Nesvik, gave a little self-esteem, and it must be listened to, because it comes from the heart. But I would like to point out that the Center Party was also involved in 1994 and supported a scheme for a reimbursement scheme for periodontite patients, and we asked the Government to come back with a comprehensive arrangement for dental care, including rights, priorities and funding. So there's a reason to say that something's been going on late, but when we get there first, we're going to be all right. And I think that's what I'm going to serve everyone who needs dental care in the future. In terms of the periodontitis case, I just want to bring some facts here. 40 pst. of the population aged over 50 years suffering from the disease and 7-10 pst. has a serious variation of periodontitis. For these, it is especially important that we can find reasonable arrangements now, so that you can afford to deal with this. Furthermore, dental treatment is too expensive for many people. Different living conditions studies show that those with poor financial outcomes also have problems keeping dental health in order because this is expensive. We should be able to do something about that now, and that is what is one of the clues to a future dental reimbursement scheme, that we should be able to provide reimbursements through popular health so that it is possible for everyone to have a reasonably good dental health. The county authorities are responsible for dental care and are available to the whole population. What's going to happen in the future, we don't know today, but maybe we know it tomorrow, after the government has put forward its proposal on reforms in the field of hospital services and health care. We just have to hope that it's on the agenda, and that we don't get any undue stamina in the dental service system because of this reform. The county has an obligation to provide assistance to priority groups. I'm not going to bring them here, but it's clear that due to dental deficiency and partly also due to poor county and municipal economy, there's not enough offer in terms of dental services across the country. Among other things, in North Norway, Middle Norway and in ‘dalstrøka innafor’, in District Norway, there is a major shortage of dentists. The situation is also marked by a lack of professional experience among those in short-term service, and with a high rate of substitution, the dental care to be provided is particularly poor. That's why it's important, we at the Center Party think that we're now getting dental education on the agenda by taking action that suggests that we're getting an education in Tromsø. Already in 1998, this was investigated by a group set up at the University of Tromsø on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the investigation came in 1999. I think we should now cut through and be clear that we need more dentists trained in Norway and that they should be trained in Tromsø. There's a lot of good reasons for that. So to this end, preventive dental treatment is preventive health work, that there should be no difference between oral and other diseases. This is important to get kneeling now. A good dental service, even if it costs, because this becomes expensive, means so much to prevent health that we will take it back into the long term. In the case of oral cavity diseases, they may be due to different conditions and may lead to different adverse reactions. In my opinion, today's arrangement for dental reform opens up so that more attention is given to the suffering caused by dental filling materials. In those cases, it is not least important to look at the relationship between dentistry and other health, and that this is treated in an overall perspective between both somatic and mental health and dentistry. Finally, I would just like to say that the Central Party should be involved in proposals No. 4 to 7 but we fell out because of the problem at the time of delivery. We shall vote in favour of those proposals. I also refer to proposal No. 8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, on a dental study at the University of Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1628	Ola D. Glötvold has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1631	I understand both settings so that the committee wants a broad review of the dental field. I agree that there is a need for this. I understand that in this round the Committee is concerned with three main themes: 1st@item: inlistbox A review of the reimbursement scheme2. A review of the law3. Questions concerning the training of dental professionals The Committee considers that the prevention and treatment of oral diseases need to be assessed more closely in line with other healthcare services. In this context, amendments are proposed to the reimbursement arrangements for the treatment of periodontitis. At the same time, the Committee notes that a smaller bureaucratic system should be found with regard to dental social security support. The Ministry has already consulted proposals for simplifications of the current reimbursement system and changes to social security rules for dental care benefits. Now, when we are going to lay down the final legislation, I would like to pay particular attention to the comments from the committee setting. Social security payments for the treatment of periodontitis cover only a small percentage of the patient’s costs of treatment. An increase in social security funding for patients suffering from periodontitis will be assessed following a professional review with relevant settings in Norway. I will come back to this in budgetary terms. The Committee further requests the Ministry to carry out a review of the legislation in order to facilitate the strengthening of cooperation between the private dental sector and the public dental service. In today's legislation, provision is made for the county councils to enter into such cooperation. This has happened on a very small scale. One of the explanations is probably that in those parts that the country where there is the greatest unemployment in public dentistry positions, there are hardly any dentists who practice private practice. This excludes desired cooperation. The development of the dental market suggests that action should be taken to contribute to equivalent dental provision throughout the country. With regard to the human resources of dental care, we have some major challenges. Geographical bias and lack of staff, especially dental practitioners, are a major problem today. Without changes in educational capacity, problems will worsen in the years to come. We need to increase education capacity in Norway. I have here noted the Committee's recommendation to the Government to clarify as soon as possible whether dental training should be established in Tromsø. Such training may significantly increase capacity and, in addition, contribute to a better geographical distribution of dental practitioners. I aim to clarify this issue as soon as possible. The Committee is also concerned with the division of tasks between dental professionals. I record the Committee’s recommendation that more dental nurses should be trained and that the content and scope of the training should be assessed. The competence of dental practitioners should be exploited to a greater extent than hitherto. In my view, there will also be a need to increase the competence of dental practitioners either by providing basic training with a broader professional content or by continuing training, so that the profession is better equipped to meet the future demand for dental services. The length and content of basic training is currently under evaluation in the two departments concerned. In the private sector, the right of establishment and free pricing are free. With a declining number of professional dentists, there should be better use of dental care skills in this sector, without having to be governed by public authorities. As mentioned at the outset, I agree with the Committee that there is a need for a broad review of dental policy. In this context, it would also be natural to discuss and finalise the future organisation of dental care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1662	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1665	In the context of the budgetary procedure in More and Romesdal County, it was cut in the frame of the dental clinics and recommended that elderly and sick people be able to draw teeth, but then go toothless because of a lack of finances. It is very unworthy and serious to propose such solutions. The county does not succeed as a service provider and currently uses the dental service as a balancing item in its own budgetary procedure. Some district municipalities in More and Romesdal that are so lucky to have dentists and well-functioning dental clinics are now threatened with closure if the municipality itself does not contribute financially. That the municipal politicians in the respective municipalities now claim that they get toothache from the whole problem is fully understandable. When the municipalities are ordered to conjure up several hundred thousand dollars in order to maintain county councils, statutory services, yes, there is a high time dental reform where you look at how the public dentistry should be organised in the future, and also look at how you can improve recruitment. The dental service is a primary health service and should be organised in the municipalities with state responsibility. I could imagine hearing the views of the Council of State on the following issues — if possible: Can the county authority oblige individual municipalities in the districts to contribute financially in order to avoid the closure of dental clinics in order to balance the county's own budget? Is the county free to increase the tariffs for paying clientele in order to prevent a dramatic reduction in public dental provision? And finally, is the Council of State going to ensure that the responsibility for hospitals is lifted by the county council and over to the state to ensure that the public dental service is transferred to the primary municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1676	: the tooth solution disease periodontite is caused by a pinch of specific micro-organisms that produce substances that break down the denture. These micro-organisms may be transmitted between humans. It has been established that there is no difference between this disease and other infectious diseases that are treated by doctors with reimbursement from public health, but for some reason, dental unemployment is not to any extent specifically covered by schemes that give rights to reimbursement from public health. In fact, Norway, like many others, is the worst financial support for dental treatment for adults, and we compare ourselves not with developing countries in Africa and Asia, but with the Nordic and EU countries. Many people in our country find this very unreasonable, and more and more people wonder why we do not have the necessary dental care arrangements, which other countries' politicians have prioritised a long time ago. You can have a heart-car disease, a broken leg, ulcers in the jaw, ulcers on the tongue or anywhere else on the body, and the expenses are largely reimbursed. But when the disease comes from the gums, it's all of a sudden nothing. That's what people find incomprehensible and unreasonable, and have become mighty tired of. If there's an inflammation around your teeth, you have to pay about everything yourself, but there's an inflammation that's a few millimeters away, for example. into the sinuses, the fear of the people comes in. As a dentist in civil society, I know well the problems that these people who get a serious inflammation of the gums experience: the fear of losing their teeth, working gums, bumps and open painful wounds, teeth that wander, some start to lick, it becomes difficult to chew and find the food, mental problems accompany, and someone doesn't work socially, and much more. I have been proposing, on behalf of the Progress Party, reimbursement arrangements in this area since 1994. It is therefore very gratifying that a unanimous increase today is in favour of a social security funding scheme for patients suffering from periodontitis, and that this will be included in the government budget from next year. It's given a clear mandate to the Government, and we'll follow the evolution of the arctic eyes. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Ballo and the members of the Committee for the work they have done on this matter. Today, a monotonous staggering makes sure to put a line across a historical temple within the Norwegian dental service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1689	I'm looking forward to the government dropping a sample to evaluate the entire dental service. I am also very pleased that the Storting in consultation with the Government will now provide reimbursement for the gum disease periodontite. And even though I don't like Document No. Eight proposals, I will give the representative Hedstrøm right in that this was a good proposal. There is dental deficiency in parts of the country, and the worst is the situation in the northernmost states. A prerequisite for a dental service for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, is that we get dentists to the entire population of the country. In the northernmost counties, public dentistry is the weight of dental care. We have experience that general medical training at the University of Tromsø led to an actual improvement in medical coverage in the north. I would therefore like to commend and support our representatives from Troms, namely Bendiks H. Arnesen and Synnove Konglevoll. They are strong ambassadors for dental training in Tromsø, and I expect their arguments to be heard and welcomed when the Minister of Church and Education must give priority to increasing the provision of education on the health side. I am pleased that the Council of State, i.e. The Minister of Health, here today, is in favour of an increase in educational provision, and that the Government will work on this issue and make a quick clarification as to whether we can receive dental training in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1698	I spoke a few days ago with the dentist at the dental clinic in Alta, Jan Nilsen, about the situation that now exists in the public dentistry. He described the situation as very serious, and you didn't even, if I've understood him correctly, ready to recruit a stately. You had to resort to an emergency solution, which is actually a violation of the law, because you had to put a dentist in this position. A number of municipalities in Finnmark no longer have a dentist to offer at all. Also municipalities that have previously recruited well are now struggling significantly with the recruitment. It makes it visible that there is a great need for action to be taken. I record that the Minister of Health has been interviewed in the Official Journal of the Norwegian Dental Association No. 2 this year, when he said that one should have an extension of the coals by 60 to 70 students each year. I have been informed that the University of Umeå has offered study places pending the start of an extended offer in Norway. As far as I know – the Minister of Health can comment on this – no response has been received from the Department. What dentists say to me is that one thing is to discuss the launch of an offer where one gets the effect in maybe ten years, something else is going on with measures pretty quickly. And if you have capacity in a neighbouring country, as in this case in Umeå in Sweden, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if you should not then use this opportunity and give a positive response to the enquiry you have received. I can't do it with my best will to see how the government here has been the initiator of action. In the previous speaker's articles, you could get the impression. Of a TV 2 entry, a few could have the impression that it was almost the Workers' Party that was a driving force here, and that the Minister of Health now wanted to take a number of initiatives. A little bit of audacity isn't out of the way. With the decisions now taken by the majority of the Social Committee, the Minister of Health will have to follow up, even if he can be left with the impression that he would have preferred to give priority to areas other than what he needs to do. You have to show the heart's desire to be liberal, but it doesn't matter whether or not it benefits a party other than one's own. I actually think many in this room are good at that, but the Workers' Party is no good exponent for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1707	In my first post, I asked two questions to the Council of State. The first was with scientific staff at universities. We know that there is already a shortage of scientific staff and that they have major problems with recruitment. My question is whether the Council of State has thought about how this can be resolved both in relation to today's situation and also in relation to wanting to increase the number of students and possibly get a dental faculty. The second question I was dealing with relates to a consultation note on state ownership of hospitals, where it says: ‘The responsibility for dental care was initially not planned for the state takeover of hospitals. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has received a number of interviews on what to do with dental services. This has provided the Ministry with an understanding that the future ownership and operation of this service should be decided fairly quickly.’ Then my question is: can we expect a clarification of the situation with regard to dental care quite quickly? I believe that uncertainty about this issue will help to make the situation of the states more difficult. They have enough difficulty as it is. And if there's any uncertainty about where this is going to be put in the future, I think it'll help to increase the problems both in terms of economic and administrative. They live in a kind of vacuum, and that will lead to maybe you don't prioritize this particular area. It's going to be a step back, because after all, there's been some positive signals now. We've put in some positive incentives for it to get better. So I could imagine getting some signals from the health minister that there would be a quick clarification of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1719	I want to link some comments to the Council of State posts, just to make sure that everything is clear. He said in his speech that he wanted to pay attention to the comments that came from the committee, and he also said that he interpreted it so that the committee wanted a broad review of the dental services. However, it is important to stress that it should be included in concrete proposals in relation to the 2002 State budget for the purpose of the social security pooling scheme for periodontitis. There can be no doubt that a unanimous committee wants to do so. He also said he would seek contact with professional environments in Norway. However, I would also recommend to the Council of State to seek contact with professional communities in countries that have had reimbursement schemes, among other things. for periodontitis for 30 to 40 years, and which has managed to do something about ‘child diseases’, so that you do not go into the same traps as you have done there. There is a great and groundbreaking work to be done in a relatively short time, so I expect that the Council of State must invest considerable resources in order to be able to comply with the clear mandate of the Social Committee has been included in the proposals for decisions to be taken today. I would like to remind you that Prime Minister Olof Palme, Social-Democrat, won a election in Sweden by introducing a new dental reform, and it could be a signal for a Labour Party Council to take on board that the population weighed this very much as they put their notes in the ballot boxes at the next election. I therefore thought I would ask the Council of State if he would follow my advice to seek information and knowledge a little further and not just in Norwegian environments, because there is a lot of experience in this area out there, and also about how he intends to put this up, as it is a short time to be presented to the State budget for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1730	In the course of the debate, I have received a number of specific questions that I will try to give quickly some feedback on. Firstly, according to what I understand, the county councils cannot impose on municipalities to contribute financially to the maintenance of dental clinics. I think that's pretty clear. With regard to the question of whether county councils are free to set tariffs for the reimbursement of costs of dental services, the rule today is that county councils have to comply with the tariffs set by the Ministry. However, it is to be considered whether to also make changes to that legislation. As regards the future organisation and future ownership and functioning of dental services, several have asked for it. It is true that it was also included in the consultation document that we sent out on a state acquisition of the specialist healthcare service, which it is about. I would like to repeat, as I said in my first post, that a review of the whole dental policy should also cover the issues of organisation and form of operation and association, and I will contribute to allowing the Stortinget to discuss this on the basis of such a review as soon as possible. However, there will also be an opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss this in the context of tomorrow’s case on the future organisation of specialist health services in Norway. With regard to the question of recruiting from abroad and training abroad, I was not in my first post. I concentrated on the need to increase education capacity in Norway. But until that happens, you will continue to use funds both for recruiting dentists from abroad and for training Norwegians who want to take the dental study abroad. With regard to the question of university scientific personnel, it is right, as was pointed out, that there is a significant challenge here. I have to ask for understanding here that this isn't just, perhaps not initially, a responsibility for health policy, it's a responsibility for education and university policy, but it's a problem that the entire government is naturally concerned about. Finally, the representative, Hedstrøm, mentioned: I meant to say that we also need to consult professional environments in Norway, but of course abroad, where we have more experience in this field than we do in Norway. I would also like to thank the Council representative Hedstrøm once again for the organisation of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1749	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that we extend this morning's meeting until today's map has been finalised and is of the opinion that it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1753	I noted with interest that the Council of State in its last speech underlined that the issue of the future organisation of dental education in Norway is a question of education and research policy more than a question of health policy. That is why there is also reason to stress that this may not be the very best reason to discuss the matter. It is promoted as a side-proposal or a side-circuit for the examination of a Document No. Eight proposals, which are really about something else, and the matter has not at all been submitted to the committee responsible for research and education policy in the United Kingdom. So I hope that when we get a debate on these issues in the future, there will be a more solid basis and a more solid assessment than what you have had in this matter. Let me also add that I noticed with interest that the representative Ballo stressed that this is one of the areas where Nordic cooperation should be able to throw something away in the short term. I think that is a good advice and that should be assessed. In the long term, however, it is primarily a question of assessing: What is the future need in Norway? We are facing the problem that we already have the best medical coverage in the world in relation to the size of the population, and we still believe that we need to increase capacity. I'm not saying that the same is necessarily the case when it comes to dental education and dental care, but there's a problem that we have to give crucial attention to when we're planning for the future. Let me also add a comment that relates to my own seagoing service as a university student. I have recorded that international discussion is about dental education and its organisation, and the trend internationally is not about creating new odontological faculties. Instead, it is in the direction of defining dental services as a speciality in medical care, and also taking into account its implications in research and teaching in this area. I also believe that we in Norway should make a thorough assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1764	I asked for a note after the payroll article. I would like to point out that I, as the proposer, and as the one who also raised this issue in relation to the education in Tromsø, have also proposed in writing to the Committee that the matter should be referred to the Education Committee, but that I did not get the majority to do so. And that's why the education committee hasn't had this case to deal with. With regard to further proposals available, I have discussed with the co-suggestants the proposals that SV is behind, and this also concerns the proposal for a dental study at the University of Tromsø. It would be very unfortunate if it were voted down here in the hall, because I perceive that there are quite clear signals that can go in the direction of actually establishing a dental study in Tromsø. Therefore, both the proposal and the other proposals that SV is behind, we want to convert to transmission proposals to the Government. Then there's a suggestion we're not behind. It's going to be a little bit of the same thing that the Center Party was in here earlier – we could have been behind that. It concerns proposal No. Three, and to the extent that it is promoted, we can vote in favour of it. However, I would like to ask the rapporteurs that there should also be a transmission proposal, so that the minority proposals as a whole become so. Because here, there are also leads through the comments that draw in the same direction as the proposals do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1773	As I announced in my post, we agree with all the proposals from the No. 3 to paragraphs 7th@item: inlistbox And when the representative Ballo now takes up this with transmission, that we turn these proposals into transmission proposals, I support it. Proposal No. 3 is then converted into transmission proposals, and the other proposals that we are in, we also agree to be able to do so. So just a little line to the representative's salary. He was concerned that it was almost irresponsible case management to make a proposal that measures should be taken to start a dental course at the University of Tromsø. I'm not going to go into what has been said and discussed in the committee in that context, but at least I can refer to my own party and my own group. We have had a communication on this – also with the representative of the Church and Education Committee – and we support such a proposal. So it's communicated with the trade committee there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1780	Without extending the debate unnecessarily, it was tempting to add some comments to this exciting topic. I can admit that I know this professional problem fairly well. My first acquaintance with the public dentistry was correct as a patient, but I have participated as an employee for a number of years, at least after the mid 1970s. I want to give praise to the committee, which has given this theme a boost without changing the sun and the wind between the different parties. Overall, there is a boost for dental care that comes from the Committee now. In terms of places of study and stuff like that, I have nothing to worry about, except that there are a number of external framework conditions governing recruitment. I just want to remind you that in the near past, because of external circumstances, there have also been problems filling the places of study that have been available at the universities where we have had such education. My main remark goes to this with anchoring in the future. And that's obviously an open question. I would like to remind you that the public dentistry had its heyday from 1959 until 1975, when it was a government service. Without directly reducing the size of the county municipality, it is at least that one has to think carefully about before removing the view from a future state anchoring. And if someone were to think about assigning responsibility to the primary municipality here, then we're talking about completely different primary municipalities, with a completely different competence and of a completely different size than what we have today. So don't focus on a good state story for this service!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1791	First, let me make a little comment to Mr Ballo's representative. I believe that for us, and certainly for the majority of the committee, the reason is that the proposal for dental training has not been submitted to the Committee on Education for an opinion, that it was not intended to be dealt with in that committee, because the whole matter was dealt with by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and not by the Committee on Church and Education. And then we've talked a little bit about some of the parts. And after the signals that have come from the Minister of Health today, we will go in to transmit all the minority proposals in the attitude of the Government, so that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1798	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9. [[See page 2601]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1806	Before we go to voting, we have to take our stand on a permissive request. From the Workers' Group, an application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås as of the evening meeting, starting at 5 a.m. on Thursday 5 April. 18 and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1826	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1833	The proposal in Document No. 8:75 to be referred to: ‘In any new application for approval under the private school law §3a of Oasen Kinderschule, Stortinget Regieringen asks the Government to lay down the law’s purpose paragraph and the principle of equality for the law to underpin the examination of the application.’ Ranveig Frøiland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1841	Only whole map. Since the matter has not been in the committee, there is nothing about what is the Workers' Party's view. But it is no surprise that I am asking the Labour Party Group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1846	Rolf Rekvam – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1849	I have strong faith in the ability of my party colleagues to think. But in any case, we must vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1854	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, so we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1865	I voted wrong – I should have voted against it!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1872	It'll be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1879	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Trond Helleland, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, proposal No. 2, from Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry is asked to take action to reduce the form field in line with the proposals in Document No. 8:87 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1902	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out, as soon as possible, simplification work which is important for enterprises through sub-projects in ‘Simplify Norway’, which have been scrapped or severely delayed.’ The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left have notified that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1931	During the debate, Mr Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a legislation requiring that employees in the departments may not be appointed as State Council, State Secretary or political adviser. If they wish to do so, they must have terminated their position and have a quarantine period of 6 months, 12 months within the same department. Correspondingly, the transition from a political position to the ministry shall apply.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to design the legislation so that senior executives in the underlying agencies are given a six-month quarantine period for transition to political positions in the general ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1978	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward: proposal No 1, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1988	In the course of the debate, the Labour Party came with a call to the Right to make proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal, which may indicate that they are in the process of seeing the light. The proposal is therefore turned into a transmission proposal. I also recommend that the Right Group vote against I and II, and for III.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e1995	The author proposed that proposal No. 1 is converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that State shares of Moxy Trucks AS be transferred free of charge to SND Invest AS.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any discussion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to implement a share issue providing the necessary risk capital by increasing private ownership participation in Moxy Trucks AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2088	There is a vote on the motion for a resolution on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent study of the actual importance of the housing obligation for the residence and other activities and developments in the districts.’ Erling Brandsnes – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2096	I would recommend the Workers' Group to vote against this proposal. We believe it must be more appropriate to carry out such an investigation when both the old and the new rules have been for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2109	Sir. President! It is a little unclear who voted in favour of the proposal, and I ask that the vote be taken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2116	Sir. President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2123	Are there any others who have voted incorrectly? – The President will then take the matter up to new voting, if no one opposes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2134	Sir. President! I voted wrong. I should not vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2141	The proposal was then rejected by 62 votes to 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2148	During the debate, Are Næss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assume that the woman can decide for herself which treatment of the abortion material to be selected both before and after the 12th week of pregnancy and that she shall be informed of the possibility through standardised information.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05.ana.ud424e2184	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party proposals No. 4-7, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 8, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. In the course of the debate, the rapporteurs have converted all the proposals for transmission proposals and they are amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess measures exploiting the total resources of the public dentistry by increasing the use of dental nurses in prevention and health promotion activities.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that more dental nurses are trained and that their training is more comparable to other comparable groups and adapted to international agreements and Nordic health care agreements. In addition, priority must be given to continuing training.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess measures that could lead to cooperation from the study period on where dental care is also involved, inter alia. interdisciplinary projects with dentists.» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the extension of the reimbursement scheme for the treatment of serious diseases in the oral cavity.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess measures that balance the economic divide between dental and other medical treatments.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘The Government is advised to review the system of reimbursement for dental treatments in the public interest with a view to reducing high levels of indifference and presenting the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine changes to existing laws and regulations relating to the public dentistry with a view to facilitating closer cooperation between the public dentistry and private dental practitioners.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate measures to start dental studies at the University of Tromsø.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
