ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e40	This year's grand election gave a bourgeois majority on the Grand Duchy consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party with the addition of two district mandates from the Left. The election is in a way historic because the socialist bloc of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are now in a clear minority in this Chamber. We have a natural and clearer distinction between the political blocks, and it was well at the heart of a majority government, but such a formation was blocked by the Christian People's Party. The party of progress, however, had to join in as a birth aid for the new co-operation government we have now received. Let me add that political birth aid is not free in this country either. Today's debate is based on two documents: the census of the outgoing Stoltenberg Government and the Declaration of Accession of the present Government. If you put these two documents next to each other, there's an amazing similarity in terms of pious desires and non-committal promises that we're all going to get so much better with the different government options. However, there is a fundamental, decisive difference between the two documents available, namely that the languages of the throne and the Stoltenberg government are based on collective human vision, while the policy of the Cooperative Government is based on the freedom, integrity and organization of personal life. This is an important difference. From this point of view, it may hardly be a surprise to some that the Progress Party, with its ideological stance, gave its support to the establishment of the new cooperative government. As demonstrated by the Declaration of Accession of the new government, it has its values anchored in the democratic principles of the rule of law and the Christian, humanist cultural heritage. The party of progress also has the same ideological position. A cross of thought, then, is for me to record that it is the value view and human vision of the Advance Party that would exclude the party from government cooperation. I think one should be very careful in political life to characterize political opponents according to a religious value scale. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is looking forward to the policy and, above all, the political results that this government will produce. In my own field of expertise, health and care, there is much to be done to improve the well-being and quality of life of a significant number of Norwegian citizens. I take it that the hospital reform is being implemented as planned by Odelstinget, without any delay of any kind. I also assume, as suggested in the Sem Declaration, that the Patient Rights Act will be amended as soon as possible, so that legal treatment is granted to patients who are beyond the time limit set by the professional team. I also expect the Government in its draft government budget to increase the input-based funding from 50 pst. until 60 p.m., which all hospitals have asked for. This has also been a right-wing requirement in recent years, and I then consider it reasonably certain that this will come into place. I also expect the cryptic mechanism to be removed, so that hospitals get full DRG payment for all patient treatment, and that the number of patients treated is not taken into account. It is my and the Progress Party's recommendation to the Government regarding the escalation plans in cancer care and psychiatry that these plans are reviewed to see if maps and terrain are consistent. I personally suspect that both the psychiatry plan and the cancer plan are no longer up-to-date with the intentions of the Stortinget in its time about a significant upgrading of psychiatry and cancer care. In cancer care, there is a particular lack of radiotherapy that is eye-catching, and there is also a good part of life-help in the terminal phase and a generally better provision of pain treatment in our hospitals. We still have unworthy and unacceptable situations in the care of the elderly, which have recently been revealed in a report by the Norwegian Medical Association. Now, once and for all, we have to take seriously the situation we have had in the care of the elderly for a long time. It's really a crossroads that we now, after spending 26 billion on the upgrading of old age care, have a worse health care coverage than when the reform began three years back in time, and that we have seriously failed in the internal care of very many public hospitals. When the hospital coverage is as poor as it is, it is in my opinion that the municipalities have given priority to nursing homes for purely economic reasons, and therefore have failed to build enough sick homes for the most needy. In this context, I believe that both the former Bondevik government and the Stoltenberg government have followed up too little and have ensured that the need for nursing homes was met in the first phase of the old age plan. The Progress Party believes that the ageing plan must be continued, but with a stronger priority for health care centres to meet the need for such places by the end of 2003. The Progress Party included in the 2002 draft budget an increase of DKK 300 000 for the investment grant for the construction of nursing homes in order to underline just the priority I have mentioned. I would also like to signal on behalf of the Progress Party to this government that we have a strong desire to shift drug care out of social legislation and into health law, and that care becomes a state responsibility from 2003. We also have the same desire for dental care, which is unfortunately in a serious vacuum today. In this election campaign, the party of progress has focused heavily on the theft committed by the state in relation to couples who become pensioners, where the couple together are stolen approximately. NOK 25 000 in retirement. We believe that this is deeply unfair, as the pension must be regarded as an individual insurance and a right for pensioners. The argument for doing this cut into the spouse's pension is that there should be cheaper household for two than for one. This is an argument that the Progress Party rejects in cash. The pension is a legitimate benefit for the individual who has paid his or her pension contribution in his or her working life. I would recommend to the Government as early as next year's government budget to start a slowing down of the pension for couples and couples with partners. Although this was not unexpected, I have registered with great disappointment that the Co-operation Government is signaling a more restrictive approach to the problem of genetic and biotechnology. The Sem declaration announces that it will go against therapeutic cloning and research on fertilised eggs. The Progress Party agrees, of course, that genetic and biotechnology can confront ethically difficult choices where the precautionary principle has a relevance, but this principle must not be so strong that we prevent Norwegian research environments and Norwegian clinicians from participating at international level in the development of genetic and biotechnology. We also need to make positive use of this technology for the benefit of our fellow human beings. I have no understanding of the idea that we in Norway should be able to use research results obtained in the field but that we will not allow research in our own country. The Progress Party will pursue a positive and constructive policy in cooperation with the new government, but this in fact means that the Government is also positive and constructive in cooperation with the Progress Party. The corrected State budget of the Cooperative Government will give a signal as to whether this government will have a good relationship with the Progress Party or not. I hope it will have a good relationship with the Progress Party. Finally, I take up two suggestions. One is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the positive attitude of the Government of Stoltenberg towards the establishment of injection rooms.’ The second is: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to transfer responsibility for drug users to the health services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e80	The representative Alvheim has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e85	Having now heard the representative Alvheim explain again his ideological position and to the extent that the need for individual people for freedom and the absence of Community solutions, I am turned off by the enormous attention of the representative Alvheim creates in health and social policy, not least verbally, and most often only at one end of the chain of action. It only helps very little when human beings have become patients, or for example. in the field of criminal policy, when the youth has committed a criminal act. The most effective health policy is to prevent disease, create fewer patients. The most effective criminal policy, and the most pleasant, is to prevent crime. Here the Progress Party is not known to go ahead. We heard a few notes about this from the head of the Social Committee. The policy of the Progress Party has been the opposite of prevention, for example: policies for increased availability of drugs and local reduction of recreational services for children and young people. For this reason, I would like to challenge the representative Alvheim and ask if he agrees that such a focus on prevention is now necessary, among other things. to improve the effectiveness of the Norwegian health system and to reduce Norwegian crime. I would also like to ask him: will the Progress Party help prevent by, among other things. reducing the availability of alcohol and drugs, and thus the total consumption of drugs, and, for example, increasing the contribution to the necessary effort on child and youth activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e94	I do not know whether the representative, Mr Storberget, who is new in the Chamber during this period, has had the opportunity to look into the political documents that we have produced in this great process. He could not have done that if he wanted to label us as not being for a preventive health service in all fields. Actually, we are. We're all in this house. But what has been the problem, and which has virtually prevented the efforts we all want to make in preventive health work, has been that the queue on the outside of our treatment hospitals has been so large and strong that priority has been given to those who were actually ill, and it has gone beyond the prevention of health work. There is a great deal of discussion about whether alcohol abuse has any relevance to the availability of alcohol. If you don't get access in the usual way in regular sales, restaurants and poles, we all know that there are plenty of opportunities to access alcohol on the black market. So I don't believe that restrictive attitudes towards the marketing of alcohol will help improve the situation with regard to alcohol abuse. Alcohol is a legal product, and we just have to accept that. I can't believe that someone here is going to ban alcohol sales or serving. Prevention by reducing drug availability — yes, you know, the world, I like to go with Storberget and anyone in this room to reduce drug availability. But I am not sure at all that it is a right policy for the poor drug addicts, heroin addicts, to continue to be labeled criminals. I think that's a bad way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e106	I record that in its presentation, the Cooperative Government stated that it should be an objective for the provision of healthcare that it should be independent of residence and economy. What we've seen over a number of years now is that the economy is becoming more and more critical. We see, for example: that the budget will increase the proportion of equity by 3.5 p.m. and, with changing governments, this has been an increase in equity over the last few years. We also see that there have been a number of peculiarities, including: on referrals to physical treatment, on medical statements in connection with medical consultation, and on the costs of various health services, which many will not be able to bear. I'm recording that the Advance Party in connection with the Budget indent. S. No 11 for 2000-2001 underlines the following: ‘The Party will oppose any increase in the proportion of its own resources entered in that budget.’;» Now we see that the Progress Party can become heavy on the scale of the new budget for the Cooperation Government. I would therefore like to ask John I. Alvheim: Is it that the Progress Party will give priority to that area, as described, so that you prevent increased prowess, as proposed by the Labour Party Government, by 3.5 pst.? Or will the Progress Party do the same as it did when it included in a budgetary alliance for the 1998 budget, that, despite pious formulations, it was said not to be involved in the increase in the percentages, so did not the Progress Party at all give priority to it? Is it that we can now rely on the considerations of the Progress Party in this area that they will demand from the Government that the excesses in healthcare should not increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e116	First of all, with growing excesses, as the representative of Ballo pointed out that one has received in the primary health service. Yes, and it is thanks to the system, which the representative Ballo also praised and still praises. So now you have to pay $70 to get your own file from the doctor you moved from to the doctor you moved to. It is a completely unnecessary expense that has been borne by the patients. And so it has become: fractions of prescriptions, consultations over the phone, etc. So there has been no lucrative arrangement for patients from an economic point of view. Then there was the relationship between life and learning. In the last budgets of the previous period, we have mainly opposed any increase in the proportion of equity. Then I refer to the cooperation with the Bondevik government for the two years it set, where we made a budgetary settlement. Now I don't know if Olav Gunnar Ballo and the Socialist Left ever come into the situation that they have to settle with other parties in order to resolve the situation around a state budget, but what we got with the Bondevik government at the time was that we had to keep the roof on the props that had been proposed increased, but we had to accept the general increase in the other excess. And that was an increase that was formidable. It was the biggest increase in the excesses that I've ever seen in this house, with the Bondevik government at that time. But that's what you have to pay to go in and compromise. I think everyone understands that it wasn't with the light heart that we did it, but we had to give priority to one another, and then it turned out that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e123	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank John Alvheim for the positive attitude and publicity of the political basis of the Cooperative Government that he had in his contribution. In particular, it is gratifying, but not surprising, that the representative Alvheim places emphasis on the value base of the new government, a value base that is not least reflected in the government's health and social policy. The Progress Party and the cooperating parties have many common points here, not least to establish a system that can remove the two-part healthcare system created by the Workers' Party in Norway, where those who can afford it can buy treatment in private hospitals, while ordinary people have to thank public health cows. What disappoints me in John Alvheim's contributions is his conclusion on genetic and biotechnology, where one could get the impression that it was the researchers and the most liberal countries that would at any time set the limits of that type of activity. It is a position that at least does not correspond to the Right’s value base. I think it is necessary that we are willing to set limits that may create problems for our researchers, but that are nevertheless absolutely necessary to maintain a human world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e130	There are problems for the patients we create if we in this country are not to engage in this research in genetic and biotechnology and explore and benefit from the results that come out there. It's the interests of the patients we care for. In the case of therapeutic cloning, it is a fact that stem cells are cultivated to treat people with serious, fatal diseases. I thought we were set to do that in Velferds-Norway. I have full respect for those who, from an ethical point of view, cannot go that far, but we are able to go so far in a positive direction, so that we can make use of this technology that can be used beyond the borders of the country. We must not get into the situation that we get an out-of-the-box professional expert in this area because we are not allowed to research the technique.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e137	The cord shift is over. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has asked for the floor outside the list of speakers to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e142	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The guidelines for the ordinary regulation of pensioners’ incomes are amended to read as follows: ‘The aim of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a retirement pension with an income trend in line with the wage growth of the rest of society and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy framework otherwise’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e151	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e154	This morning’s meeting clarified what is, and what is going to be, this government’s great mare: a government that split in its emphasis on politics, and, not least, with a party of progress that will continuously humiliate, on the one hand, and support the Government. It is in this totally unwieldy and very difficult landscape that we have got a new government. I would assume that especially for the Christian People's Party, this must shine like a nightmare, if you think that this government should have a horizon and a lifetime. That means that the space of action that this government has emphasized that it has, is constantly being restricted because it will now become clear to everyone that the parliamentary basis of this government is made up of the bourgeois parties and no one else. This does not mean that SV will be negative to support or engage in dialogue with the Government whenever it has to be, but this clearly determines what we have said all along, and what the government parties have constantly denied. The fact that the Government is also making a gap in the emphasis on politics is also made very clear today by the parliamentary leaders of the two main government parties. This will, of course, go a little bit further over time, but at the same time it will be so that in this government there is great internal tension. These parties have chosen to form part of a government with a parliamentary basis in which Carl I. Hagen forms the political support. According to VG, Bondevik said about this party last week – it was linked to a situation in which the Christian People's Party had to rely on the Right, Left and Advance Party: ‘Then we must rely on the liberalist extreme right in Norwegian politics. This is impossible for the Christian People's Party. Then we fail our responsibility in the work of the weak...». It is therefore the party which the Christian People's Party did not want to include in the past, which is now the parliamentary basis of the Government. It's going to be interesting to see how much right-wing policy the Christian People's Party's voters tolerate, because it'll be decisive for how this will work. This is a bourgeois government, it's just to establish when a reader reads the Sem statement. And let me draw out three policy areas that are very clearly pointing in that direction. For that is the case if you read this statement and also if you read the statement to Mr. Bondevik, you'll see that the Christian People's Party has run away with the nice words, while the Right has run away with the money. Let me draw out these three areas just to show the direction, because there's also a big structural grip that will of course be noticed. The first is the theme that I and the parliamentary leader of the Right in the past were in a small clinic today, which is what is going on in the state's ownership policy. Whether this is stated in the Sem Declaration: «Statistical establishments shall not offer products and services on purely market terms that can be done equally well or better by private individuals.» This cannot really be understood in any other way than that the State should not conduct any business where it is possible to imagine that there are private operators. But if we think about what the state actually owns, then the state does a whole lot of business, for historical reasons, for resource reasons or for chance, like when the state got the private banks trapped. Just think through the following: Telenor, Statoil, Hydro, DnB, Statnett, Statkraft, Luftfahrtsverket, NSB – just to mention some of the big portfolio of the state. If this government statement is to be understood correctly, then the state must not operate at all where services or products can be better offered in the private market. It will mean – and of course it is also the Government’s goal – a large-scale sale of the state’s business. And the state doesn't necessarily have to own everything that the state owns, it's so right. But at the same time, it will be like this – and this shows all the experience – that when the state sells out large parts of its portfolio, as we have seen in the last period, the state sells it at a much lower price than it is actually valued at. We've seen this in the sale of Telenor, we've seen it in the sale of Focus Bank, and we've seen a number of other examples. So that means that what we might now be facing is that the state will actually sell out large parts of the community's values for spot prices. We've seen that historically, and we'll probably see that again. Because for this Government, privatisation is probably an end in itself – they probably think that now we have to make sure to get the most privatized while we have the chance – not a means for businesses to get better. It can mean a large-scale privatisation that neither the business nor the government will benefit from. You have a kind of idea that private people necessarily run stores better than the state, and you can have a polemics about that, but I'm not going to take it here. But if we see some private Norwegian companies housekeeping their homes – take Kværner or take Braatens – then we can see that it is not necessarily ownership that determines whether a company is successful or not successful, there are other relationships that also play. In Norway, in fact, state ownership is necessary in order to have head office functions at all and to have important industrial activities in Norway. We have poor, low-nationally oriented capitalists. They sell out as soon as they get the opportunity, as soon as they get a bid. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of the fact that private individuals are not part of Norwegian companies with a long-term perspective, as we have seen in many other countries. This means that the state needs to play a role in which the private can play a role in other countries. But this will be a major structural change that I hope we won't succeed, but which I am unfortunately afraid of from a purely ideological right policy. Because there are many strong ideological right-wing people in the new government. The second point that I thought I would draw out that shows in which direction this will go is the point of tax and tax. No point in this declaration of government is so clear in what direction you want. You've even fixed it to $25 billion plus the investment fee. Of course, such a reduction in the income of the country must be paid. It is not possible as Mr. Foss has repeatedly said that this can be paid with growth in economics and oil money. This would inevitably lead to significant cuts in public activities at some point. Where this becomes, so far only the Government knows. However, this will inevitably also lead to greater differences, as welfare services will be poorer. In addition, these taxes and taxes will necessarily have the effect that those at the top of the table will have a greater relief than those at the bottom of the table. All the experience with the Right Tax proposal shows that this will also be the case here. And that would mean that this point would be a point for greater differences in Norwegian society – the opposite of the Christian People's Party was fighting electoral campaigns, that one should have smaller differences, one should care for the poorest, and one should provide for a society with greater fair distribution. This point in the government statement shows very clearly that it is the Right who has the hand on the economic steering wheel, while perhaps Kjell Magne Bondevik has the great words of justice and solidarity. Let me also draw a third point that shows in which direction this Government wants to go. The government statement states very clearly that the growth in the state budget should be less than the growth in the value creation in mainland Norway. This, of course, sounds very complicated. But what that really means is that the growth of the common consumption we're adopting here in this room is going to be at any time lower than what's growing outside this house. And that would mean putting a bond on what measures this house can do. That means that when we want to bet on school, on care for the elderly, on hospitals, on kindergartens or whatever it is, this obviously has to be paid, and this is mainly paid over the state fund. But here, however, there is a restriction on the country's ability to use money to cover important welfare tasks, and this limitation lies in the growth of the mainland economy. This is a traditional right-wing policy, because it is in fact believed that private consumption should always be higher than public consumption. And that's fair enough to say that. But what this government is saying very clearly is that the Community values, the Community consumption, should at all times not be greater than that of the mainland economy. These three points show very clearly – I could also draw more, but this concerns economic policy – that this is a bourgeois government. And this will even clearer become a bourgeois government with all these operations that this Government will be allowed to pass through under Carl I. Hagen's leadership. He will at all times ensure that humility and support will go hand in hand, so that this Government, of course, does not agree, but that it should at all times understand who is really in control. Alternatively, there is a majority for another policy in this room that does not give Carl I. Hagen influence at all – and that is the declared goal of SV. We don't think it's good for the Norwegian people that Carl I. Hagen should have the front role in this kind of political game. And that means that we now see how this goes from the stand of the Christian People's Party, but it's the Christian People's Party's voters who decide how much right policy this nation will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e191	This is a debate that concerns the state and governance of the kingdom, and in this regard I will ask the representative, Mr. Djupedal, the Vice-Chairman of SV, about his view on how to use their political power in the Storting after they have come in with such a large group. Djupedal said, among other things: that he would support the Government when it came to the matter. I guess that's good. But if it were to be relevant to support other coalitions here, how does Djupedal view it? How will SV now use its political power? I would also like to ask the vice-president of the SV how he views the wording of the SV's programme with regard to the intrusive resistance to the EEA Agreement, that Schengen cooperation should be completely reversed and rejected, that NATO membership should be a matter of fact – out of it. Is this an invitation to cooperation? In Djupedal's group there are people who are more comfortable with the Red Valallians program than with SVs, it was said two days before the election. Can we get the Vice-Chairman in SV's clarification in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e200	I can reassure my good friend Tore Nordtun that it is SV's program all our representatives are elected to. In the debate this morning there were several interesting signals, not least from former Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who is now briefing themselves after the large electoral defeat of the Workers' Party. And I understand that, because there has been a debate we have requested from SV. We went right and hoped that we would make a good choice, but we realized that more than 50 pst. We would never be able to do it alone. We've realized that if we're going to have an influence on what we think is important, we're going to have to deal with other parties. Dealing with other parties means giving and taking. And we are more than willing and have said that we want to cooperate with the Workers' Party, with the Centre Party or with other parties that are close to us politically, to create a majority for a policy we believe is going in the right direction. We have recorded that until the big elections, there was no interest in this in the Workers' Party, nor was there any interest in it in other parties. Now we have a big deal parking both the Workers' Party and SV in the first place not in the corridors of power, but unfortunately a little outside. But I find it interesting to see that both former Prime Minister Stoltenberg and others of the Workers' Party's tone-setting politicians are now more orientated towards the fact that the time is definitely past when the Workers' Party could see to it that one should have government alone. I think it is a paradox that the Norwegian Social Democrats are the last social-democratic party in Europe to have that recognition. In Sweden it is our sister party and the environmental party that make up the parliamentary majority of the Social Democratic Government, in Germany the Greens sit with the Social Democrats, in France our sister party sits with the Social Democrats, and in several other countries in Europe this is the pattern. This is the pattern because it necessarily forces itself. In a world as inconspicuous as we now have, I believe that having a stable parliamentary regime is important, but of course it is important to have a stable parliamentary regime along a policy that goes to the left, and not along a policy that goes to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e211	The current year’s government budget gave the Norwegian people a sound tax call, a sign that is probably part of the reason why the representative Djupedal stated in his speech that we lacked nationally oriented capitalists in Norway, but that have also had a clearly negative social impact. In the spring the news came that, despite having labour income, people had to go to the social office to pay their electricity bills. Thus, a high tax policy combined with high taxes was a direct reason why we had more social beneficiaries in Norway. The right has warned of the consequences of such a policy on the ability of people to act on their own income. Self-drivingness and self-respect depend on our perception. SV has run an election campaign for the poorest in Norway, which I respect SV for. My question to Djupedal is: Is SV willing to look at self-drivingness and acting on your own income as a goal? And are they, as a consequence, willing to see fiscal policy in the context and to be with the cooperative governance of its objective of reducing the overall tax burden on the lowest wage earners?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e220	Let me thank you for a nice line, for there were many good things to grasp. To answer the first part of your challenge: we're for capitalists, we're also for private capitalists – just so it's said – we're for a private business, and we're for everyone to contribute to the community. With regard to tax and tax burden, it is clear that many in the Norwegian community can pay less tax and less tax for the benefit of it. The weakness of the Right all the time doing when they're talking about taxes and taxes is that they're not focused on what they want. This means, of course, that those with the highest income and the highest consumption are relatively constantly receiving the greatest relief. Sustained, without exception, is the effect of the Right proposal. Let's take an example of a general reduction in the electricity charge. Who makes the most of it? Well, of course, they make the most of it with the largest dwellings and the highest electricity consumption. The minimum pensioner in a normal little apartment will probably not earn much, perhaps a fifty-pocket or a hundred-pocket a year, while one who has a single dwelling and who lets the flow go, who has power in the carport and power in the swimming pool, will make many, many thousand-pockets. If you want those sitting at the bottom to have that tax relief – and we want that – you have to make a system change. You have to make sure you get a two-price system. Then you get two things. You help those who have the least money, and you provide a reduction in total energy consumption, which is also a goal. In the Swedish tax policy, which we have promoted throughout all the years here in Stortinget, we have just this profile. We're not very concerned that the high payers have to pay a lot of taxes, because we think that's right. But we're very concerned that many people sitting at the bottom of the table are paying too much tax. That is why our tax policy is aimed at making these easier, because like Right, SV believes that the best thing to do is to feed on your own income. We don't want to push anyone into a social queue. Unfortunately, someone is going to end up there, and then we have to help them. But the best thing for every human being's self-respect and for society is that you can live on your own income. Of course, that's also SV's goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e231	SV and the representative of Djupedal have long been strongly advocated, among others. higher capital tax. In this regard, I have a question: is not the representative of Djupedal concerned that such increased capital taxation in an open economy as the Norwegian would lead to capital flow and thus to the loss of Norwegian jobs? Or does the representative Djupedal think that the financial framework conditions have nothing to say about where an enterprise is located?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e236	Of course, the issue of capital taxation or taxation at all raises many difficult issues. Is it possible for a nation to have a different tax policy than its neighbouring countries? Is it possible to maintain a level of well-being in which the State has revenues while having a completely different system? The answer to this is in part yes and in part no. It is partly yes because the tax system in all European countries is very different. It is one of these areas that has actually been harmonised at least. I am currently chairing a working group at the Nordic Council which is looking at exactly this with capital taxation in the different countries of Europe. And you will be very surprised to see how big the actual differences are between the different countries in Europe, including Norway — everything from depreciation rates to capital tax rates, to what you can subtract from and not subtract from, tax bases, etc. This means that the answer is yes, it is possible to have a different tax also on capital in Norway. So the question is, is that desirable? That's another piece. We believe – and we believe that this is very clear – that Norwegian capital is taxed very lightly. If one sees it in an international context, Norwegian capital is not taxed particularly hard. On the contrary, most honest capitalists say that there is no fiscal reason to move business from Norway. We want – and I also believe that the Progress Party will agree – Norway to be a well-functioning welfare state. This means that the state, society, must have income, and the state must have income from different tax items – capital is one. I have noticed that if you compare with many other countries that have lower capital taxes, then they have much higher housing taxes and much higher property taxes, which are stationary tax items that cannot be moved, while capital can be moved. This means that the Progress Party in Norway stands for is quite atypical in relation to all the lots they might compare with. They want a harder tax on housing and property, because they say that this can't be moved, but you can move the money to the Cayman Islands.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e245	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e248	The purpose of the co-operation management is for its health policy to ensure that all are provided with an equivalent range of health services irrespective of their place of residence and economy. The proximity, equality and quality shall be ideal for healthcare services. We will bring forward the most neglected areas, and we will bet on prevention. We stand for a public health policy based on individual responsibility for their own health. Similarly, health services must be a driver in this area because health services are so well aware of the results of a lack of prevention. Public health policy is therefore also a social responsibility. Lifestyle factors such as diet, exercise, smoking and alcohol are closely related to health. Tobacco causes about 30 pst. of cancer cases and dietary factors together with lack of physical activity between 30 and 40 pst. These lifestyle factors are also among the main causes of cardiovascular disease. We want to follow up the cancer plan, and we want to follow up on the cancer plan's efforts, not least in this field. At the same time, it is important to extend the capacity of radiation treatment at the necessary pace. Psychiatric disorders and psychosocial problems represent great burdens for those affected, for society as a whole and for the service sector. Prevention of mental and psychosocial problems needs to be given greater space. The government will follow up the implementation of the Roadmap for Mental Health, and we pay particular attention to the work of children and young people with mental disorders. We will continuously assess the allocation of resources to ensure a good balance between needs and efforts, as the representative of Alvheim was involved. As Minister of Health, I now want to review the health services offered to drug users. Today, there are major shortcomings and failures, which we have not least been documented through the media over the past few weeks. The size has adopted a reform involving State ownership and sectoral responsibility for the specialist health service. The co-operation government will carry out the hospital reform. The Storting has through its treatment of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001, on the Health Business Act, etc., established a framework for implementation. So far, a considerable effort has been made to prepare it. Regional health establishments are established and preparatory activities are now being carried out towards the acquisition of responsibilities and ownership from the turn of the year. A governance dialogue will be developed with the regional health companies supporting the business model. When, at the turn of the year, the country takes over the ownership of former state-owned specialist health services establishments, this ownership position must be used to achieve health policy objectives. The reform of ownership shall be filled in with content. The government will use its ownership position for active management to achieve better quality of service provision, efficient resource use and shorter waiting times for patients. Private establishments are an important complement and corrigendum to public hospitals. The free choice of hospitals and the input-driven financing of hospitals shall be extended to private hospitals contracted by regional health establishments. At the time of the establishment of the contractual framework, it is also necessary to ensure that health professionals continue to bear many types of collective responsibility, such as emergency function, preparedness, education and research. The overall tasks of health undertakings must continue to provide the basis for their rational follow-up. At the same time, however, a scheme will be developed to ensure that the core of the measure — the free choice of hospitals — will also include private hospitals. This will provide an incentive for health care to be more firmly anchored in individual patients, while at the same time stimulating better quality and efficiency. There is a need for an evaluation of existing financial instruments for all health services. Furthermore, there is a need for an investigation into healthcare funding schemes with a view to changes supporting the new organisation. Job No 1 is the implementation of hospital reform. Secondly, we will carry out the review of the financial instruments. The government will follow up on thefixed reform, but sees the need to review it in order to correct adverse effects. In particular, the referral mechanism should be amended to provide sufficient reference to the specialist once for the same suffering. The new referral mechanism has been in operation for some months, but it seems obvious that the scheme has hitherto been used unnecessarily squarely in relation to people with chronic disorders and, for example, women who have a firm and long-term relationship with a gynecologist. The Medical Association will be contacted to discuss measures to make practice as simple and flexible as it is intended. Where appropriate, adjustments may be made in connection with the spring fare negotiations. Finally, let me remind you that not all diseases can be cured through treatment. However, we will always be able to provide care and almost always relieve pain. Providing better life support to seriously ill and dying patients will be an important task for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e278	I must congratulate the Council of State Høybråten on his comeback, even though it was at the expense of a dear Labour Party Council. Providing good and equivalent healthcare is one of the most important tasks of the welfare state, and no matter what countries we compare with, we see that such organisation is fundamental. In that way, I was not alarmed by what the Council of State said here in its article. The working party took a big boost and perhaps a heavy burden in reforming the hospital service, etc. Part of the reform was aimed at securing 100 pst. state ownership through state operational responsibilities. I see in the Sem Declaration that the renewal of the public sector can also mean privatisation. I think it would be sad if renewal was confused with privatisation. My first question to the Council of State is: Is it such that even public hospitals or parts of the establishment are planned to be privatised? My second question is: if it is to be as the Sem statement suggests, and as the Højbrätten also pointed out in his statement, that private hospitals should receive the same funding as the public authorities, these private services should be obliged, in line with public hospitals, for example. addressing the same training tasks for health professionals as public hospitals are now required?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e289	I thank the representative Kristoffersen for his nice words and will try to live up to the expectations. What is the main heading of what I said about the hospital reform is that the government aims to implement the way the Stortinget has adopted it. And I am familiar with the fact that the Storting has not decided that this reform will involve the privatisation of public hospitals. However, what this government points out far more clearly than it did, is that we want to use private hospitals as well as hospitals for solving important societal tasks related to patient treatment. We want to do so within the framework of agreements concluded by the regional health companies in these private hospitals, and in such agreements for which we have to draw up a detailed plan, it would be natural to impose requirements on what these hospitals are to deliver. In this regard, we also need to look at the kind of education that the representative Kristoffersen had in mind. However, I believe it is important that we signal that the pressure on renewal in the hospital sector should not be reduced by this government, rather on the contrary. But we want to make sure that this is not just an external change process, but that it is also the process of internal reform in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e298	I will also be allowed to congratulate the Minister of Health on his appointment again and look forward to constructive and good cooperation in the coming period. It is such that today’s health care system is characterized by long queues. 260 000 people are in line for treatment. There is also a situation in which there are waiting lists for radiation capacity, MR studies and a number of other health care issues. And the private actors in health care are, at least as the signed and advanced party sees it, no competitor in public health. They are a supplement, a necessary supplement to health care. And so it was very much positive to hear in the articles of the Council of State. But I have to point out that it turns out that it takes a very long time, from private institutions to apply for approval and until any approval or refusal exists. It seems that emphasis is placed on a number of different criteria, and at least in the past, it has looked for ways out so that we can say no to private actors in health care. I hope that this government can put an end to this, so that more positive commitments can be made in this respect. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State now ensure that it is really just the professional criteria to be used for the approval of private health institutions in Norway, and then that these are given equal reimbursement to public health institutions? I hope the Council of State can give a positive feedback on this, so Norwegian patients can face the future safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e309	I thank you for the invitation to cooperation. For my part, I would say that the main focus, whatever the means, must be to ensure that patients' interests and the patient's ability to receive the fastest possible and best possible treatment are overall. It must also be decisive in relation to the assessment made in relation to applications for private hospital authorisation. I am going to follow the law as adopted by Stortinget, as to what is going to happen for such approval. As regards the question of funding, which is a different issue from the question of hospital authorisation, as Minister of Health, I would like to follow the guidelines drawn up in the Government's Declaration of Accession, namely that one sees this in relation to an interaction with regional health businesses and an agreement with regional health businesses. We will draw up a framework for such agreements based on the considerations that need to be taken into account in order to ensure a good and comprehensive health policy coherence in the supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e318	When on 6 June this year Odelstinget debated the law on health enterprises, the representative Are Næss of the Christian People's Party stated the following: ‘This law will not prove to be beneficial to any part of the country.’ He went on to say: ‘However, a major and radical change is proposed, and it is remarkable that the smaller the reflection of the Health Ministers of the Labour Party on health care, the greater the reforms they bring. Here it seems to be a causal link.» Nose continued: ‘This legislative proposal involves a time separation of health policy, and not just externally, by the Workers’ Party joining a line in which they must support the Advance Party and the Right, yes, where these parties are cheering for the proposal as an expression that the Workers’ Party has finally begun to pursue the health policy of the Right.’ The representative, Mr Bondevik, also took a position on the reform and said: ‘This reform really means moving important decisions away from elected bodies with closeness to users — patients. I am afraid that this could lead to a democratic deficit in our hospital policy." I would be reasonably sure that the considerations that have been put forward by both Are Næss and Kjell Magne Bondevik are fully shared by the Minister of Health. These are his own party traps. And I want to ask the Minister of Health, in the extension of what Mr Bondevik here said, namely, the democratic deficit that exists as a consequence of the health reform, in a concrete way, about how we intend to address the health reform that the Christian People's Party has clearly opposed, to ensure that there is no democratic deficit. What will be the approach of the Council of State to ensure that democracy is properly maintained instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e343	We can probably get a lot of fun in this room in this period of drawing quotations from previous debates. For my part, I assume that once the Storting has adopted the greatest administrative and service reform of the time, at least in the history of modern administration, the Government and the Minister of Health at all times have to implement it. I have that respect for decisions taken in this Chamber. That means I'm less concerned with repeating old debates. I'm more concerned with ensuring a safe and secure implementation, and it's going to be demanding enough, because a very time-critical race has been set. I now go into that and make up the status, and ensure a good implementation. But let me say that I am concerned that there should be a public debate about health care decisions and that it should be a democratic exercise of health policy. With the state that owns it will very much say that we must ensure good processes towards the central political bodies. I am also of the opinion that there is a pretty good link between the proposals I made and were adopted as Minister of Health in the last period in relation to the release of hospitals, and in terms of stronger regional coordination, and what has happened to this reform that the Storting has in the meantime adopted. It's a little bit different, and it's a slightly different strategy, but it's many of the same goals. Therefore, I feel absolutely not difficult to stand here and say that I should implement the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e355	The Labour Party Government's proposal for the 2002 national budget and the financial speech I gave on 11 October stressed the importance of describing the increased uncertainty that we now see in both the international and Norwegian economies. Since the end of the work on the national budget, new estimates have been made by different institutions. These may indicate that the outlook for economic growth next year could be weaker than envisaged in the national budget. I spent my last days in the Ministry of Finance to get a thorough analysis of how this could affect the Norwegian economy, and whether it should have consequences for economic policy. Weaker growth internationally could affect the Norwegian economy through several channels. A clear sign of weaker exports of traditional goods and weaker developments for non-competitive industries. Overall, this is in line with the fact that growth in the Norwegian economy may also be slightly weaker than envisaged in the national budget. However, the future activity will be at a high level. The labour market will remain tight. At the same time, trends in the two-way economy could be reinforced in the future. The financial situation of households is very sound and, in addition, they are likely to experience a strong growth in real disposable income next year. Strong growth in household demand will, on the one hand, provide significant impetus to the service sectors and other industries protected from foreign competition. On the other hand, industry and other areas of competitive activity could be hit by weaker growth in the international economy. The strengthening of the Norwegian krona since last summer has contributed to a deterioration in cost competitiveness. This comes at the top of a cost increase that is still higher than our trading partners. Our assessment was that these perspectives clearly point to the fact that, in the future, one should be careful to further stimulate the economy through fiscal policy. We have to remind each other that the increased use of oil money as a result of the rule of action, which the Labour Party government has already incorporated into the budget, in itself provides a positive stimulus for the economy of 0.6 pst. Providing additional incentives would increase domestic demand and thus the pressure on the labour market. At the same time, this could counteract a fall in interest rates, contribute to a further strengthening of the exchange rate and thus exacerbate the competitive situation. The new economic policy guidelines discussed by Stortinget in the spring give monetary policy a stronger role in stabilising the Norwegian economy. The market is now expecting a decline in interest rates. Therefore, if the new government uses more oil money than the Labour Party government proposed, it will have two safe effects. You get a level of interest that is higher than it would otherwise have been, and you make the situation more difficult for the competitive part of business. Therefore, if the new government still spends more money, it is only a sign that the government is unable to make the difficult choices. The government is unable to do the job it has undertaken. But I guess that's also where the government's biggest challenge lies. The Sem Declaration promises increased appropriations for many good purposes. At the same time, 31 billion dollars are promised in tax bills, primarily to those who serve the most. This isn't going to work. It can only be implemented through cuts in different welfare schemes. Overall, this will result in greater differences between people in Norway. But this dilemma cannot be overcome by injecting more oilheads into the economy. Then the bill is sent to young families with large mortgages and to employees in the industry who are sent out on unemployment. Therefore, we must all expect the Government to do the part of the job that was not done at Sem – that the Government will be able to choose and manage to make room for the promises it has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e372	The Government Declaration states that the Cooperative Government will increase the focus on education and research. The aim is for Norway to be fully international in terms of new technologies, competences and knowledge. It might look like an ambitious goal, but I think it's a goal that's within reach, and I think it's a goal that's very important. It is important because it is a prerequisite for maintaining a high level of well-being. Then I'm talking not only about material well-being, but also about intellectual well-being, because knowledge is the source of education, of culture, of mastery and of personal development. But it is also important because it is a prerequisite for ensuring the value creation of a country that is very open, that is very dependent on other countries, and that has to compete with others and be productive, especially in a situation where there is shortage of labour. It is important to remember that knowledge and competence can be acquired in many ways, in many places, in many situations – yes, we do it all the time. Sometimes it's the knowledge that comes to us, as it's often in school. But we can also look up the knowledge, as we do when we go to the library. Both are equally important. We're going to learn, but we're also going to learn. But what is clear at the same time is that the interaction between our formal system of competence, the public education system and research, and the private and informal education system and the competence system is of course vital and central to the extent to which we should be able to acquire sufficient knowledge. When I say that I believe this ambitious goal of being completely international in terms of new technology, competence and knowledge, is within reach, it's because, after all, we have a very good starting point in a lot of areas. In some areas, Norway is already under cover. Let me mention some of these areas: we are among the OECD countries that invest most in education. We're among the countries that use the most per cent. primary and secondary students. If we look at the expenditure of educational institutions as a share of GDP, we're the third best in the OECD. Up to and including secondary education is one of the highest in the world. There is a very high proportion of students who go from primary to secondary education, and there is little in-flight disqualification. We have a very high level of participation in continuing education, and we have very long traditions in distance learning, which has also given us an opportunity to become very good in online learning, where Norway is actually far advanced internationally. Also on the content side is the positive thing. The mathematics skills of graduates in secondary education are at least above the average, although knowledge is lower at lower levels in school. The reading skills of adults in Norway are good, and the understanding of democracy – or 14-year-olds – is very well compared to the understanding of young people in other countries. We have a well-educated, conscientious doctrine. The vast majority of teachers are very skilled and enthusiastic. We have a large number of women taking higher education. In addition, we participate in the EU Framework Programmes on Research and Technological Development. There we have to compete to join, and we have done quite well – yes, in environmental and marine research we are actually described as a major act. When all of this is said, that doesn't mean everything's good. There are also problems and challenges in Norwegian education and research. It's always a potential for improvement. I see it so that everyone in this room actually believes that there is room for improvement. In addition, conversion is always necessary, simply because our education is a very long run towards a moving goal. Society is changing, and the other countries we compete with and against change too. Let me mention some of the challenges we're facing. Firstly, there are very wide variations in Norwegian education, both in quality and in physical equipment, whether we are talking about school buildings or equipment. That means that there's someone who has something to learn away, and there's someone who has something to go after. Secondly, although we have a high level of quality assessment and trials on the evaluation of schools, teachers and students, and we have a lot of statistics, we may not be good enough to describe it and really evaluate it and assess its quality. So it's also harder to learn from the best that it could be. Reading and writing skills are partially deficient in 15-20 pst. by the students, and we have problems with the teacher recruitment. In addition, many teachers do not have enough, or at least not desirable, professional immersion in the subjects in which they teach. The provision of continuing training courses for teachers, and their search, are also weaker than desired. We have a low number of teaching hours in childhood, and we have problems with real-time vocational recruitment – otherwise, like some other countries. There are gaps in teacher training. And the students who take higher education spend a very long time completing their education. Although we have some excellent research, there is also a lack of quality in some of the research, while at the same time doing little — yes, in part very little — in basic research and business research compared to the OECD countries, and not least with our neighbouring countries. We partly have a poor interaction between the systems of competence in the public and private sectors, something Kristin Halvorsen had to say earlier today. The economy and the labour market need to be more involved in schooling, and the school needs to be more involved in business and employment. It's both important and correct. As I see it, I would like to point out in particular four areas that it is important that we seize now, among other things. on the basis of the Sem Declaration and the Declaration of the Government. Firstly, we need to continue working on quality improvements in primary and secondary education, and I think it is important to see these two steps in the context. We need more quality for every penny, and we need to have a basic education that is adapted to the individual student even better than it is today. Elements of such a programme may be better teacher training. The government will promote a big message about teacher training for spring, where better differentiation is proposed, more opportunities for professional deepening. Other elements are better provision of continuing education and training, as well as developing the offers, leave options and scholarships for teachers, increasing the number of hours spent in childhood and continuing the promotion of ICT – the aim is for each student to have access to a PC with the Internet. In addition, we want to ensure a diversity in the offer by also improving and simplifying the private school law. Secondly, in the case of higher education, we will implement the quality reform for higher education in accordance with the Stortingen intention and progress plan. There will be changes in the Law on Universities and Higher Education in 2002 and we will have a new degree structure in the autumn of 2003. The purpose of this reform is, inter alia, to: Incentives and room for action for institutions and students to enable students to carry out the studies in a shorter and better time frame. Thirdly, as far as research is concerned, the Government will pursue the research follow-up plan, which means that we will reach the OECD average by 2005. We will have a special focus on basic research, including the four thematic areas and the FUGE project, and we want to implement incentive schemes for stronger research efforts in industry. And the fourth element I want to mention is the reform of competences – to implement the right to initial and secondary education, to stimulate more continuing education and training, and to develop and stimulate better forms of cooperation and interaction between the public system of competence, the education system, and what is happening in the workplace. We will continue to work on documentation schemes for real skills and encourage more cooperation between school and working life and for outreach activities between universities and colleges and private research and investigation institutes. Knowledge can be seen in many ways as a goal in itself. Knowledge is internalized in the human being itself. But knowledge is also a means. Knowledge is a means to work, to get out of poverty, to freedom of choice, to take responsibility for your own choices, to self-control, to formation and to value creation. Most of our national wealth is the labour force – yes, that's the knowledge. It has always been important, but it has become even more important, in what can be called the new economy – the knowledge economy – because the knowledge content of products and services is now greatly increasing. That's why it's to bet on knowledge to invest in the future, and that's why I was happy when my predecessor wanted to welcome me to the ministry by welcoming me to the Ministry of the Future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e410	Let me first welcome the Council of State to cooperate in an important area for our children and young people and for our future society. I think the Council of State gave a very good picture of the Norwegian education and school system, a picture that I fully agree with, but which was the very opposite of what I heard from the Right in the election campaign. The election campaign was also about promises for the school sector from many parties, who are committed to it. The Labour Party has tried to follow up on this through the budget we have presented, following up the promise of higher salaries for teachers, more education, free teaching materials in primary and secondary schools, and upgrading school buildings. The Sem declaration contains many things that we agree on, and work that is already under way by the previous government. But there are also points in which we disagree, especially in those areas where there is a signal of a right triangle in the direction of privatisation, stronger private entries, and the danger of a two-fold division in the Norwegian school system, which is a threat to what we think we should call the single school. But I'll leave it down now, we can come back to that when there's suggestions from the Government. I will stick to the current and known. The Council of State has been interviewed in several contexts, and although she says that it is not the main message that has emerged, it has at least been understood that she believes that one should remove poorer teachers more easily than today, and that one should differentiate beyond today’s possibilities. The idea goes easily to the performance pay. When I mention these two areas, it is because in these areas in the interviews, the Council of State has also reduced the substance somewhat. I see the Right-Policy and the Right-Programme behind, but what did the Council of State really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e423	I might say that the question didn't come quite unexpectedly, but I'm really happy about it, because then I get the opportunity to comment on myself and my own statements. I would like to say that what appeared on television that day, first of all, was not meant to be a main message on my part; second, I think that I expressed myself unpresist; rightly so on an unpresist question, and thirdly, it seemed unnecessary provocative. This does not mean that the theme I tried to touch, namely the quality of school and the quality of teachers, is not important. I think we have an obligation to engage in it as adults, for the sake of our children. But what should you do to get good teachers? The most important thing must be to prevent us from getting unsuitable teachers, and there are already tools: when we publish teaching positions, we have a duty to add the most qualified applicant, and we have fitness assessments in teacher training. The very ones, most teachers, of course, are very enthusiastic and nice. But also in this profession, it happens that there are people who do not master the job they have, as in all other professions. The question is, what do we do? There may be a tiny little problem quantitatively, in the number of teachers, but for those involved, it may seem like a big problem because the teacher is so important to the students and to the parents. Then, in my opinion, it is important that school owners and management have an obligation to commit themselves, primarily by pursuing a good human resources policy, and by giving them the freedom to organise education in ways that increase freedom at the local school. You can get involved in further training, you can do something with the new teachers in the field of teacher training, and you can work together better parents, students and teachers. As it appeared in an evaluation in the evening post today, cooperation is not always as we might wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e432	Let me also begin by congratulating the Council of State on the appointment. She has important tasks ahead of her and major challenges. Let me also say on behalf of the Progress Party that in this sector we are meeting with a positive and open will for cooperation, but also with clear signals. The first signal is that quality is more important than volume. With the four main points of the Council of State, we have a very good basis for cooperation initially. But we are also very clear that we want structural changes to create better quality faster than we have seen over too many years with a public monopoly school. We are concerned that those who are students today should not experience improvements until they are no longer students. I have three questions related to this. Two of them go to the private school law. In the wording «enhancing the economic base of schools» it is stated that discrimination against children in private schools, i.e. that they receive 85 pst. – or less – grants in relation to those who attend public school are now to be taken into account? I'm not just thinking about rent, I'm thinking about other things, too. Will this economic discrimination be eliminated? And still in the case of private schools: Is it stated that the criteria should be simplified, so that if a school disappears or is terminated, one could use this to fill a quantitative educational need – that is, what is in Section 3 of the Law? Is it then an opportunity for those who want to continue with a school where a public monopoly school disappears? And then finally this with the competence of the teachers. I'm a father who still has kids in primary school, so I actually have top skills on what's part of today's challenges for students and for parents. What will the Council of State do to improve short-term competence, so that we who have children in today's school get better before the students are finished being a student?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e441	Let me first thank you for the nice greetings from both replicators. In terms of what we should do to improve the qualifications of teachers in the short term, I think the right thing to do is to invest more in continuing education. And it is from our point of view both to develop better provision of continuing education and training, among other things. through universities and colleges, there is a need to make it easier to take leave, and there is a need for scholarship schemes. But here the offer is actually a little too small, and the search is too small. This is what you can do in the short term. In the longer term, there is also something to do with teacher training in relation to those who come out later. With regard to the formulation of the private school law, the government has not come so far, and I have not come so far, that we can explain how those changes are going to be, or how future funding models are going to be. What is stated in the Sem Declaration is that the private school law should be improved, that it should be simplified, that the criteria for approval should be simplified and that the time of the proceedings should be shortened. And I personally believe that a law that occurs so much controversy in individual cases, in itself, is unfortunate, also because it is such a long trial period. The law gives you uncertainty, it gives you doubt, it gives you little predictability, and that's why I think it's right to change this. For information please refer to approx. 40 cases for treatment in the department, but there are actually no cases that have reached my table yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e450	I would like first of all to congratulate Kristin Clemet as Minister for the most important field in Norway, and I choose to do so orally. With regard to the solutions to many of the important challenges facing us in the future, the answer lies in education. That's why it's important to bet. It costs money, and now it's especially important to make a big effort at primary school. The big challenge is high school. Three days before choosing the parents in Tromsø to take the children out of school on a three-day strike. It is an important and serious signal, but it is perhaps high time that parents showed power behind their demands. It's unsustainable to have a primary school where many of the school buildings are so poor that the kids have to sit on their jackets, where the toilets don't work, where the school library is closed or too bad, and where the pencils almost have to be shared. A bet in primary school is important, it forms the basis for the rest of your life, and a good start in life is the most important thing when it comes to giving the opportunity to do well in school later. If we're going to create good students, we're going to have to give the school the tools needed to learn what the minister is doing, to read and write. And to make sure that you get social, safe individuals, there are some keys that have to lie here. It's a strengthening of the municipal economy, it's an increase in the municipal economy. I know this, I have been to the local government in Tromsø, and I have many experiences that I can imagine sharing with the minister at a later stage. The strengthening of the framework for the municipal sector is important, and my question to the Minister is whether she will take responsibility for increasing the framework of the municipalities. Quality improvement talked Kristin Clemet about. Kristin Clemet has arranged for a loan scheme of DKK 15 billion for the municipalities, so that they can raise loans for school buildings. My question is: how will the Minister ensure that the municipalities which have been refused borrowings so far will have the opportunity to raise such loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e463	I am absolutely convinced that there is always a potential for getting more quality for the money, but it is clear that in many contexts there will also be a need for more money. There is also a need to invest in the physical equipment of the school, which applies not only to the building mass but also to the equipment at the school. I cannot, for natural reasons, comment on the additional proposition that the Government is going to promote on the budget or on the local economy, but with regard to the loan scheme for school buildings that we have agreed on, the Sem Declaration – if I remember correctly – states that it should be able to benefit indebted municipalities. The criteria for this scheme are not definitive. This must now take place in cooperation between several departments, and it will then be possible to lay down criteria such as: Takes more account of youth because its needs are higher. In relation to the proposal SV has promoted on the upgrading of school buildings, I can mention that consultation opinions are now available in the Ministry regarding new legal provisions regarding the learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e473	The resignation of the Labour Party government as well as the co-operation government has underlined the seriousness of the international situation that arose after the terrorist bombing in New York and Washington on 11 September. It is easy to establish that the international situation is demanding. Norway's place in the Security Council, our experience and role in the Middle East and other conflict areas, and consistent support to the UN over time provide us with a good starting point to contribute constructively to the current situation – both in the short and long term. In the short term, the Central Party expects the Government to focus on the following three areas: Firstly, opening the borders of Afghanistan’s neighbouring country so that refugees come out and are established in refugee camps in neighbouring countries. The neighbouring countries must be assured of international assistance to deal with the refugees. Furthermore, there is a need to listen to international organisations requiring bombing in order to get emergency aid into Afghanistan. We need a government that has the courage to use its influence to get this done. Secondly, the Middle East conflict must find its solution in order to win the fight against terrorism. The government must press Israel to immediately withdraw from Palestinian territories and contribute to the rapid establishment of a Palestinian State. Thirdly, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Brahimi, must be given the strength to negotiate a political solution for an overall Afghanistan based on the different ethnic and religious groups in the country. A political ‘solution’ that does not originate in the Afghans has no possibility of living in the long term. The government has to show clear positions on this point. Of course, there is a lot of focus on the war in Afghanistan, and it is related to the acute crisis management. However, it is urgent to speed up the long-term work against terrorism. The UN must be given a central role. That is why a special session on terrorism must be convened at the UN General Assembly. A special session must be carefully prepared. It'll take time. That is why the initiative must now be taken. Norway’s place in the Security Council is a good starting point for taking such an initiative. The specialisation must focus on the underlying causes of the rise of terrorism and on the measures that need to be taken to bring about the death of terrorism. It is only through the agencies of the United Nations that we will be able to establish a common understanding of the reality of what needs to be done and also to ensure that decisions are followed up across the globe. In Resolution 1373, the UN Security Council adopted a number of demanding measures to combat terrorism. The resolution deals with measures to stop terrorist financing, exchange of information, strengthening of border control, etc. The Member States have been given 90 days to follow up the resolution. The measures are wise and important. The problem is that most countries have neither administrative structures nor financial means to follow up the resolution. The resolution thus becomes a blow to the air. A special session could focus on how to enable us to implement the Security Council decision. The causes of terrorism are, of course, many, but we cannot close our eyes because an important part of its being is linked to deep economic injustice. As long as two billion people live in the deepest poverty and struggle to secure the daily bread for their children, while American and Western living on TV screens in villages and slums, as long as countries do not have the opportunity to teach their citizens to read and write, as long as countries do not have institutions and administrative structures to run a democratic society, we are powerless in the fight against terrorism. Poverty must be combated in order to combat terrorism. This simply requires a global ‘Marshall plan’. The Central Party expects the Government to work to keep Norway in first place to ensure a fairer world. A special session in the United Nations on terrorism is a beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e507	As one of those who have strongly doubted the support for the establishment of the Bondevik Government, I have read the Declaration of Accession carefully. It is like most other such statements: many good wishes, many good deeds to many groups and many politicians' rounds of goals. It is of course when we use instruments to achieve the good objectives, that political work really begins and the political choices and priorities become visible to the voters, and that is when the Progress Party should keep this government in mind. In spite of this, the declaration also has messages through what is mentioned, which are obviously positive and which, with some help, will change both political and political content to the delight of most people. But there are also areas that are not mentioned and visions that I think are missing. The Prime Minister talks a lot about administrative responsibility and care for the weak, but nothing about responsibility for good oil wealth management. Nothing has been said about the responsibility for managing the still enormous oil wealth in a good way in the nation of Norway, and in a good way, I believe that today's inhabitants are getting greater and more noticeable joy from being a rich oil nation today. As a rigid oil nation, we should be able to make extensive investments in the nation’s own infrastructure – roads, bridges, tunnels, aerodromes and ship’s trail. Not least, this is necessary in the counties along our long coast, which account for large parts of the nation’s total value creation and exports — in many cases almost despite poor infrastructure. The challenges here are huge, and the vision that we only need 600 million. kr more to roads is not correct. We need 6,000 million. kr – the vision is missing a zero! It is simply decimated! We should also be able to undertake a comprehensive renewal and upgrading of buildings and facilities used in the fields of school, health care, care for the elderly and defence. Both the government's resignation and the confiscated government will refurbish the building decay we now see in the 'Norwegian Landfill School'. As oily as we are, we should also be able to do it without this happening with loans to a heavily pressed municipal sector. To spend eight years removing the maturities in school is, at least, unacceptable. Overall, it is also disappointing in my view that the new government does not focus on how to bring today's public service standard up to a first-class level for today's citizens. The Prime Minister speaks a lot about the fact that the new government will implement an active modernisation of the public sector. It gives the Progress Party its full and full support. Here's the speed, the rate and the exit from the jump great! Then it becomes disappointing that the Government will carefully evaluate the county council, probably the part of our administrative system that is most clear and over-mature to be removed. It is also disappointingly tame when the longest move towards a change in the system within the school system is an improvement in the private school law, and that this improvement means that the ‘principal criteria in the private school law will be maintained with about the same wording’ — quote from the answers we received to one of our questions. In other words, the opening of the public school monopoly will remain equally small. This vision does not even extend to Sweden, where social democrats have, for the most part, accepted the school reform introduced by the government of Bildt in 1992 and where the schools are now on the rise. Here the government pulls itself into the wind and stumbles into the impact. The Progress Party promises active help to improve the country’s population’s performance. For us, the provision of services to the population is more important than who produces it. In the view of the Progress Party, the schoolwork is over-modern for far-reaching system reforms. Free establishment is a system reform that puts pupils and parents in the driver’s seat. Finally, Prime Minister Bondevik speaks warmly for the protection of the family, the safety of children and the development of personality – all children will have good growth conditions. It must also apply when the mother and father family are no longer in existence, it must also apply in child-restraint cases and it must also apply in child-restraint cases. The TV entries we have seen recently, which show a few of too many examples of the use of police and physical power when children are ‘catching’, do not give good growth conditions! I therefore allow myself to submit the following proposals: ‘The Government asks that, in the context of the review of child protection law and child law, a specific discussion be held on the use of police/physical power in the implementation of decisions, and clarification of the amendments to Norwegian legislation that must be made in order to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.’ I'm also going to make a suggestion about school. ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate notification of the resource situation in primary school.’ I'm not going to read the premises, it's shown in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e545	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e549	The climate threat is one of the main challenges we face. Therefore, the follow-up to the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol will be one of the most important tasks in the future. The government of Stoltenberg has provided a good basis for this in the big news about Norwegian climate policy, and not least by actively helping to negotiate an agreement during the climate negotiations in Bonn this summer. Work towards the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol must not be stopped as soon as possible. We need to get national action started as quickly as possible. It is therefore important that the Stortinget can start processing the Storing Communication on Norwegian climate policy as soon as possible. This also means that the additional message notified by the new government should be sent very quickly to the Stortinget. And I don't understand that it's necessary to spend half a year making an additional announcement. After hearing the Government's Declaration of Accession and reading the Sem Declaration, I believe that it is possible to reach broad political agreement on the key areas of climate policy. But it requires us to get started now. We do not have time to wait, until this matter is too important. In the case of gas power, this Bondevik government, in relation to the previous Bondevik government, has a completely different policy. I'm glad. However, what the Government intends to do in relation to the gas power plant to be built in connection with the Snow White project is somewhat unclear. The snow-white project is important for the oil and gas industry, and not least for the region, this project will be of great importance. That the government in the Sem statement warns to push the treatment of the project slightly out of time can help create uncertainty. I would therefore challenge the Government to clarify its position. We're lucky to live in a country where people have traditionally used nature for recreation, hunting and fishing. All rights have made this possible, and it is an important value to take care of. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen many examples of the threat to the right to move freely in forests and land and in the coastal zone. There's a development the Workers' Party will turn around. In the open-air communication, as the Workers' Party presented in the spring, there are therefore many measures that help to ensure the right of all people. Anyone who wants to do so must be able to carry out hunting and fishing regardless of their financial status. The performance of former staging representatives, now Minister of Industry, Ansgar Gabrielsen and other right-wing representatives in the election campaign that hunting and fishing must be more expensive has naturally generated strong reactions. I find the Government's declaration of accession unclear in this area. Will it be the interests of the Right and the Grounders that will win out in the Government? Or will there be public interests that will be passed on, as the Workers' Party is engaged in, and as the Christian People's Party and the Left have previously supported? Two years ago, the situation in the oil industry was dramatic. The development of new projects had almost stopped completely, and many in the workshop industry were licensed or terminated. It was therefore an important task for the Workers' Party when we took over the Government last year, to get optimism back into the industry. We did that. In workshop halls that were previously empty, there is now a lot of activity. For the oil and gas industries, as in all other industries, predictability is important. I hope, therefore, that the Government does not add up to a new line in this policy area. There are, of course, conflicts between oil and gas extraction and the marine environment, especially in the northern seas. In its last report on the state of the kingdom, the then Labour Party government announced a more environmentally-adapted maritime policy. It is important and absolutely necessary to know the impact of petroleum activity on the marine environment. A lot of good work has been done in this area, and there is no lack of reports and investigations. Now is the time to make political choices. The Labour Party will contribute to this. I am pleased that the new government in environmental policy has so far announced that it will continue much of the work of the Labour Party government was well under way. It should be able to provide a basis for good cooperation in some areas. But we in the Workers' Party will not be waiting for the Government. We want to be impatient drivers of environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e566	Several research reports have shown frighteningly poor results in relation to much of Norwegian primary school students’ literacy skills. The math skills and so the math skills aren't much better. It can't go on like that. It's simply not acceptable that 15-20 pst. of a year's coal leaves primary school without being able to read or write its native language properly. We do our youth a solid bear service by not demanding the acquisition of a minimum of professional knowledge. Without mastering our own language, Norwegian, any youth with unnecessary disabilities puts into working and private life. The same can be said about arithmetic. Regardless of all the world's technical aids, calculators and mobile dolls of different shapes and sizes, we also need to have a minimum of arithmetic and numerical understanding. Without this clearly needed critical attitude to both prices, economics and money use will be lacking. It is therefore very gratifying to note that the basic policy documents of the Government underline the importance of investing in quality at all stages of the education system. Particular attention shall be paid to strengthening the literacy skills of students and to strengthening training by increasing the number of hours spent in childhood and youth. Throughout the school, greater emphasis should be placed on strengthening pupils’ skills in reading, writing and billing. This is a priority and emphasis that will also make it easier for students to acquire other subjects, and not least strengthen the opportunities for individuals to actively participate in working and social life. But no matter how much money we spend on the school budgets or how many hours are spent on the schedule of planned education, the professional results of the students will largely depend on the good teacher. The good and motivated teacher who creates commitment, glow and interest among his students is gold worth teaching. The good teacher also knows his profession. The quality of teacher education is therefore a crucial prerequisite for success in improving the quality of the school system as a whole. The government will strengthen general teacher training and make demands for professional immersion in order to be able to teach at primary school. Differentiation of general teacher training is essential and must be implemented as soon as possible. But it's not just useful to give the new teachers better education. Teachers who are already in school must also have a sufficient opportunity to improve their professional qualifications and to update their knowledge. It is therefore necessary to provide systematic and targeted refresher training and competence development for all teachers and to take urgent action to recruit and retain senior lecturers. Everyone related to school has encountered the concept of ‘problem class’ — in itself a very negative and stigmatizing concept. I have seen for myself how the good teacher can contribute to a total change in a poor class and learning environment to become positive, inclusive, knowledge-seeking and stimulating. By giving greater freedom and responsibility to individual school and school management, both in terms of the organisation and disposal of financial resources, there will be a far better opportunity than today to retain and stimulate the good teacher. Governments have already been attacked to say that ineffective teachers have little to do with the educational situation. The Council of State can take comfort in the fact that her reference to what should be a matter of course, also for teachers, namely that those who do not work in their job should be offered to use their labour force on something else, has been very well received by both students and parents. Both groups often have experiences that suggest that this relationship is not taken seriously enough. For me, it is simply bad staff and employer policy not to intervene and do something when it is obvious that a teacher is not working. The managers who do not intervene damage both their employee and all the students who do not receive the good teaching they should be entitled to. Let the teachers who have problems in class get to do other problems in school. It would help both for individual workers and for the school community as a whole. The right has great confidence in the teachers. We will show that, among other things. by giving individual teachers and individual schools the freedom and opportunity to design their own pedagogical arrangements without unnecessary central detailed management and uniformity. With the government's heavy and conscious commitment to quality at all stages of our education system, the goal of Norway's international competence and knowledge is a fully achievable reality in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e585	The debate so far has had a ritual character. In addition, it has been petty, where outgoing state councils have wanted new welcome. And I can also make a contribution to the food by giving praise to the Council of State's education policy. It was a rhetorical article, it was obvious that the rhetoric had changed over the past few days and at least clearly in relation to the election campaign. And even though my primary wish was not a Right-dominated government, it's obvious that the Right has made a good choice in the choice of government council. We have a campaign behind us where education and school were the main themes. There was a lot of promise, and people of course have great expectations of what is going to happen in this sector. Education must therefore be one of the most important issues in the next four years if the policy debate is not to increase. The struggle for education and school is a battle of value. The struggle is for a good and diverse public school with good and proper school buildings and a resource situation that enables the school to achieve the objectives of the curricula, such as: a free school for everyone. This is opposed to private solutions where the rich can choose their own educational arrangements. The fight is about a good school leisure system, which is to be offered to everyone, and at such a low price that everyone can afford to use it for their children. In these times when fundamentalist groups, whether religious or political, use different means of weakening the rule of the people and the community, there are no more private schools where children from different environments are isolated and can cultivate their prejudices. The answer is the public school as a melting pot and a meeting place for children with different backgrounds. In meeting other children and adults, they shall be challenged on their own positions and positions and shall meet a school which is anchored in the values and norms of the majority. This school shall provide room for minorities, including: can learn your own native language. And education must show respect for the specificities and needs of minorities. It is when children meet children with a different sense of reality that there is a basis for discussion and dialogue. Discussion and dialogue are the only alternative to violence and war. That's what our common public school is going to give, neither more nor less. It will be small when the most important and perhaps only concrete thing about school and education included in the accession declaration – I ignore the general and slogans – is the need to simplify the private school law. If it's simple, it's private school law. And it's not easy to simplify. In order to be recognized as a private school, one of two criteria must be met: either that the school is a pedagogical alternative or that it is established on a religious basis. And not enough, once the school is approved, it shall have a fixed state grant regardless of whether the Stortinget has budgeted the amount of the school. This is automatic. Simplification in this context is probably another word for extension of the basis. Several groups and organisations shall be given the opportunity to establish private schools. It does not make law simpler; rather, it becomes more complicated and more balances and assessments that need to be made. The most important thing we can do now is to strengthen the public school, give it the space to develop a variety of educational and organisational solutions and make it the meeting place for different life views and cultures, where they meet. It's the best and perhaps the only bulwark against fundamentalism and intolerance. The main challenge for schools, therefore, is not to open up more private schools, but to equip public schools. There has been a decline in public school. The maturity includes, inter alia: has led to the fact that as once a free school for all, it has become a school where self-payment is required. We know that on average, every child pays more than 500 kroner in self-payment per person. years. And these aren't numbers that SV has dug out. This is the department itself that has documented through its own studies. We have examples that children in public school can't afford to attend camp school. We have examples where a quarter of the students are left in class while the rest are going to camp school. We can't have it in public school like that. It has to be a common school, and it has to be free of charge. Self-payment is not primarily a result of the invulnerability of local politicians. That's a result of starvation, because we, the majority of people, have starved the public school, so that the answer for many has become self-payment. Now, in the state budget for next year, it is proposed to eliminate self-payment for camp school, and that is good. That's the first step to eliminate self-payment, but it's just a small step. It should be time to take the step fully, that is. to remove all excesses in the school. We can do that with simple grips. We know how much it costs. It's $200 million. according to the Ministry's own calculations and own investigations. The election campaign showed a great deal of commitment on the part of the parents. The ‘Children do not get in reprise!’ action went across the country. The action had some important and essential requirements. First, it was the upgrading of youth, and it was the most important thing. In addition, it underlined the need for resources. At the same time, the action said, and it's important to take it into account, that there's a lot of good work done in the Norwegian school. We're supposed to be proud of that. We have a lot of teachers who show great enthusiasm, and they do a formidable job, often with little resources. And then it doesn't keep with the simple rhetoric and the simple conjecture that we spend more money per person. students other than the other country with which it is natural to compare do so. We have a country with a decentralised school system, and we know this is resource-intensive. But it's also the decentralised school system, the fact that we have small schools, that we've taken care of our branch schools, that give our schools a advantage over others. And it's important to take care of. A few years ago, the Children’s Ombudsman conducted a survey of the resource and building situation in primary schools. The Ombudsman concluded that EUR 15 billion was required in investments to equip school buildings to meet the requirements of the regulations on environmental health protection. These are the regulations that the Ministry has given to realize and renovate the schools so that they meet the minimum requirements of these regulations that required NOK 15 billion. And then we don't have time to wait. We can't wait to start this work, we have to start it immediately. That is what we are proposing in our proposal. We're going to make a plan, an upgrade plan where the state has to take the primary responsibility to finance this. I'm curious if the majority has the courage to vote on such a proposal, on the basis of the debate and what they went out with and promised in the election campaign. We have ambitious and good curricula. Individual pupils are entitled to individual adaptation and training, as underlined by the Council of State in its statement. There have been major and important reforms in school, and I know that we have succeeded in a good part of this. We've got a good structure both in primary and secondary schools, but in some areas we haven't done so well. It concerns the changes in content. We haven't got them. We have to invest a lot of resources to get the content changes. We have to use financial incentives, and that's what we add in our one proposal, where we say that we have to secure the schools a minimum standard in terms of resource thievery. We want an investigation. We want to see if there are big differences between municipalities and between schools, and then if we see that there are big differences, and that's necessary, we want to put the minimum standard in the form of minimum ten metals. That is what we want. I urge the House to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e616	The representative Rikvam and I can discuss education policy at a later stage. I want to challenge the representative of the labour market, because it was also up earlier in the debate today. There is a shortage of labour in several areas in Norway, although a clear cover may also come quickly. At the same time, we have 70 000 unemployed, and there are hundreds of thousands of them in the group of part-time workers and disabled people who we want to include in the labour market. We now have opportunities, as needed, to recruit skilled labour from outside the EEA if you can demonstrate that you have done the job in relation to your own labour market and that there is no labour force in the EEA. Changes have also been introduced, which means that in the future, a person can use allowances for skilled labour. In fact, the Bondevik government requires significant changes in immigration policy and provides a basis for large and increased labour migration. It will in practice mean unskilled labour from outside the EEA territory. I see that as something far more than the SV suggested was a lottery for some thousands who would be lucky to come to Norway, in line with the green card layout in the United States, based on a naive belief that it could change the attitude of immigrants in Norway. I see it that with as big a change as the Government requires in labour immigration, it will make the task we have for our own labour market difficult to take seriously enough, and it will make it easier to exploit labour – what one calls social dumping. There is a labour market policy on the premises of the market. The paradox is that SV seems to be for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e623	Before the next replicator, Ine Marie Eriksen, gets the floor, Rolf Reikvam will be allowed to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e626	It wasn't just any questions, it was reasonably concrete questions. I regret that Vidar Bjørnstad will not discuss education policy with me, but that he will discuss labour market policy is also important. Now I don't feel any special need to defend the government's immigration policy, but Vidar Bjørnstad knows as well as I do that we have wanted an embellishment of immigration policy. We have proposed this earlier. As far as the Right is concerned, I have a feeling that they want to import fully educated labour from countries that themselves need the labour more than what we do. I'm a little worried if that's what the goal is, that we should import fully trained IT engineers, IT skills from India and other countries, as some other rich countries have done. That's what I'm worried about, and it's a wrong signal to give. However, making it easier for immigrants to enter, get a job and get employment opportunities in Norway has been suggested in the past. I cannot see that this has anything to do with the liberalisation of the labour market, as Vidar Bjørnstad suggested. We have a responsibility. We have led a restrictive immigration policy, and it is time to soften it up. Whether it should be through a green card scheme, green card, or whether it should be in other ways, we should discuss it further. However, we believe that there is a need for an embellishment, not only in order to import well-trained and well-trained labour – it too – but also for others, unskilled, to have the opportunity to gain employment in Norway. So an embellishment: yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e638	I believe that Rolf Rikvam and I agree on one thing, and that is that the future lies in the minds of young people today. The representative Rikvam and I may also disagree on one thing: I deeply disagree with the fact that the biggest decline in Norwegian school has occurred in recent years because someone has to pay for camp school. One of the biggest maturities we've seen is that students lack basic basic skills in basic education. Then I also hear that Rolf Reikvam says today that private colleges will only receive state support and only be able to be established where the public universities and universities have done too bad a job. Private education provision at all levels is a valuable and good supplement that also has a self-esteem, which helps to give parents and students freedom of choice and helps to improve the quality of public schools. The way I interpret Reikvam – it is also the SV's attitude to private schools – should therefore not be possible to start and operate private schools with public support unless the public has done a bad job, i.e. failed its task. One of the areas where we know that the public school is not able to do the job is something as basic as teaching young children to read and write properly. My question to Reikvam is whether it is okay that it has to go as far as about 20 pst. by students cannot read and write properly before opening up private supplements and before allowing schools other than the public school. Or is it better to allow this before it has gone as far as we've seen that the college has run it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e651	If I said this would be the biggest maturity – I don't think I said that – I thought it would be a downfall in public school when we start demanding self-payment. When it's going to cost money, when parents have to pay for their children and this has as a consequence, as I pointed out, that there may be situations where up to a quarter of the students remain and cannot participate in the activities that the class has, this is a decay! And if Right doesn't agree with that, at least we're fundamentally in disagreement with the concept. Because I had hoped that the Right also agreed that this is a situation that we do not want, and that we cannot continue to have. Therefore, the public unit school must be free of charge. It is clear that it is not good – and it is unfortunate – that so many have poor reading skills. But I would like to stress one thing, that with regard to the research of this research institute in the Stavanger environment, which one refers to over and over again, they themselves very strongly stress that there is a great deal of uncertainty attached to what they have come up with. They shall follow up this study to see if this is correct, to see if there is a trend towards children reading worse than they did in the past. And if that's the case, if it's the case that children read worse now than they did before, it's clear that we need to deploy strong resources -- we need to increase the resource effort to improve the literacy and accounting skills of the younger ones. Then we only have one answer – it's not private schools – and that's: we have to do something about teacher training, we have to put resources in place and forces to improve teacher training, so that those who are going to teach, those who are going to teach children to read, have methods that work well. That is what the debate is about, which methods are the best. So then it's important to deploy resources and forces to improve teacher training. Obviously, it's the same teachers who teach in private schools as in public schools, so don't think they're better to read in private schools. [[President clubs]] That's probably not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e661	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e664	Both in the census and in the Declaration of Accession of the Government of Cooperation, terrorist attacks on the United States have been the subject. It is an attack on democracy, human dignity and open society. The attack has created a more serious threat picture, including for Norway. There's been something that really affects us all. The aim of the terrorists is to create fear and insecurity, but we must not let them succeed! We have to be determined and cohesive, and build trust and understanding between people. Completeness is an important key to a good defence where communication and understanding between defence and civil protection are essential. In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperative Government has clarified that the total defence will be revitalised and cooperation between the civil and military sectors developed. During the debate on the defence message in ours, several of us pointed out that the civil part of the total defence should have been treated at the same time in order to make it easier to see contexts and find the best solutions, because military defence cannot function without the support of a civil society that also works in crisis and war. There must be openness to the population about the threat picture. It suggests that it is important at the same time to disseminate information on the overall defence. It will be part of and build up the necessary opinion and knowledge base and will allow more people to contribute to the defence work. Some of us also believe that there should be a compulsory course on the total defence for both girls and boys. The Cooperative Government will anchor the overall responsibility for civil security of society in the Ministry of Justice. The Government will present a Communication on social security and preparedness as a follow-up to the NOU ‘A vulnerable society’. It will propose measures to reduce the vulnerability of modern society and to strengthen preparedness for terrorism, sabotage and accidents that threaten the security of the nation and its population. The co-operation government wants coordination of the threat picture against national security based on intelligence information on terrorism, attacks and organised crime to be a political responsibility and anchored in the Government. The government will review the organisation, access to resources and legislation to strengthen society’s preparedness for and fight against acts of terrorism. Close cooperation with the UN agencies, our allies – and European judicial cooperation is required. Norwegian defence and security shall be firmly anchored in NATO. Both in Norway and in other countries, the defence must be defended through a demanding transformation and efficiency. It is necessary to better address the challenges we face in the new international threat picture. It is important to ensure the capacity for sovereignty, control and crisis management in the Norwegian territory and in our near seas. The co-operation administration will implement the necessary conversion of the Norwegian defence in order to achieve these objectives. The defence needs a stable and predictable framework in order to succeed in the demanding conversion that is now to be implemented. The government will ensure that the defence structure adopted by the Storting is financed. The defence shall be a security policy tool capable of being used in peace, crisis and war, both nationally and internationally. At regular intervals, there are media reviews of soldiers who cannot fill out forms or write simple messages. It's about 15-20 pst. the soldiers have poor reading and writing skills. Actually, it's neither new nor strikingly strange. We who have been working on the problem of dyslexia in the last 25 years have pointed this out many times. It just shows that the soldiers are an average of the population. But the problem needs to be taken seriously – let me mention two important points: Mistreated dyslexics need to be caught and properly diagnosed, good help and a new start — and also a course of education that they can continue after the service of protection and it is important to make sure that soldiers can both read and understand important information. The Government shall pay particular attention to strengthening students’ skills in reading, writing and billing. The defence should acquire even more competence in this area and facilitate the soldiers who struggle with the writing language. There are a lot of people who talk about reading and writing problems these days – you did in the election campaign too – and I think that is very good. Then we're about to reach the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e700	I should also have liked to talk about what Åse Wisløff Nilssen was in here. It was very important and very correct, so I'd like to back up later on in a different context. Either the Workers' Party is in government or is in opposition, the main task of the Workers' Party is to combat poverty, unemployment and social disparities. At the same time, we assume that value creation is of fundamental importance to social and welfare development. That's why we build our policies on creating and distributing fair. The State budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government therefore puts health and social issues at the top. We will improve and expand health services and implement a historical development of care for the elderly, including: the adopted old-age plan, which contained 24 400 new nursing homes and old-age homes, has been expanded by 9 000 additional places, which means a total State contribution of nearly DKK 40 billion in investment and operation. We follow the escalation plans for mental health, cancer treatment and equipment in the hospitals. All of this is for us to have good and equivalent services of treatment, care and care, regardless of residence, income, sex and social background. The Workers' Party takes seriously the fact that the condition of the disabled, the opportunities for participation and gender equality are not yet sufficient. The working party also takes seriously that we still have gaps within the drug field. In our draft budget, we have significantly increased appropriations in the field of drugs, and we are following up with a comprehensive action plan on drugs. In recent days, drug addicts and the situation of drug addicts have received considerable attention through the courageous actions of the Stoltenberg family. We will follow up on measures both on the treatment and care side, as we have already notified. In a welfare society that Norway has shared a strong and clear responsibility for those who are not automatically allowed to participate in our wealth and welfare growth. That is why the Labour Party has made clear improvements to the 2002 budget, and we will review more closely than we can do to prevent people from becoming poor in the rich of Norway. We are anxiously waiting for the Bondevik Government to follow up on the proposals already made by the Labour Party, such as the one we are talking about. increased efforts to reduce the exclusion of older workers from working life with pay subsidies to enterprises that employ workers who are unable to provide 100 p.e. an increase in the supplement to children in social security improved schemes for lone dependants with a disabled childcare benefit scheme for young people who fall ill under educationally improved financial schemes for those who needretirement benefitfree blue prescription medicine for the elderly and disability review and adjustment of social assistance rates. Yes, the list is much longer! Then I'm somewhat concerned about what the Bondevik government seems to be adding to the renewal of the public sector. We need to continue the Workers' Party's work on renewing the public sector, so that the public services within, for example, school, health and police shall improve. But the danger I see is that the new government may be confused with privatisation. We don't have to. Welfare services for sick and old must not become a business activity. The people of working life, with the breadth of knowledge they represent, is the very largest resource of the welfare state of the future. That is why we must take care of the workers. This is not least the case in the health and care professions. That's why we can't afford to experiment with dismissing these and putting in representatives who want to provide services where making money is a primary purpose. On the civil side, it is claimed that this is a means of getting more out of each krona to finance the welfare state. The existence of the welfare state cannot depend on private services. The funding of the welfare country is a matter of willingness and attitude to use Community resources for services, and less of additional tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e755	Cooperation governance will focus on an offensive, holistic and long-term sustainable development policy. We are now in what is called the 'Ten Years of the Environment', and our aim is to make the vision a reality through the environmental policy pursued. The policy shall be based on the three main principles: the limits of nature’s tolerance, the precautionary principle and the polluter’s payment. Norway shall become a leading nation on the environmental front. We are to manage our rich natural resources and cultural memories so that they give us experiences and belongings and ensure the living conditions of our descendants. This is the environment policy, among other things. is concerned. I continue to notice that there are some people who believe that environmental protection is a bit of a backward look, and something that is contrary to progress. Of course it's not like that. Nothing is more future-oriented than a good environment and offensive environmental policy. Business too has a lot to do with this in the long term. In order to achieve the environmental objectives, the Government will focus on an interaction with non-governmental organisations, municipalities and businesses. We'll provide nutrition within the limit of tolerance that nature sets, and invest in new technology to move the boundaries of what is possible. A national environmental policy effort does not change the fact that many of the environmental challenges are international. Of course, this also applies where harmful emissions from other countries threaten Norwegian nature and resource base. The government will work to speed up the implementation and further strengthen the international agreements we have reached in this area in recent years. Our coastal areas and our marine environment have long been exposed to radioactive emissions from the Sellafield facilities in the United Kingdom. Quantities have been small, but the most recent studies show increasing concentrations of harmful substances in, among others, seaweed, lobster. Information suggests that the UK will not reduce emissions, on the contrary, it has been suggested by the UK Government that in December it will be decided on non-negligible increases. I will now raise this with my colleagues on Monday – the Nordic Environment Ministers – and we have jointly asked the UK Minister for Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg to discuss the matter. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment has asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assess the legal basis for Norway in international conventions to halt emissions from Sellafield. We also need to remember that Ireland has already already ratified the United Kingdom under the OSPAR Convention. However, a clean and productive marine and coastal environment is largely dependent on our own efforts. The government will present its own forecast on the management of the marine environment. In particular, I would like to highlight four important challenges. We have to facilitating that the petroleum industry does not threaten important environmental interests, including: in the Barents Sea Force, coastal and oil protection preparedness cleared up into ‘old sins’ in the case of PCBs and other serious pollutants which are a serious pollution hazard to many fjords, the framework conditions for a more environmentally friendly fisheries and aquaculture industry An important objective of the Government is also to ensure diversity of species in Norwegian nature. This will require the protection of endangered species and land use taking into account biodiversity. The Convention on Biological Diversity is at the heart of the Government's environmental policy both nationally and internationally, and we shall follow that up to the Johannesburg Conference, which will be the next harvest. The government wants an offensive climate policy. This applies not least to the contribution of CO2-free gas power plants and new renewable energy sources, as shown, inter alia. by the Sem Declaration. A significant part of greenhouse gas emission reductions shall be carried out nationally. The government will speed up the establishment of a national allowance system. We will also launch new measures, which deliver results before the 2005 reporting year. We will come back to this in an additional communication on Norwegian climate policy, which is actually necessary, because the climate communication that is on the table of Storting has no proposal for establishing the quota system before 2008, which was the Kyoto Protocol. We must remember that on Tuesday the European Union announced that they would provide this and promote a quota system as early as 2005. Therefore, some time is needed to get something in place, which the previous government had not really done in that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e800	Let me first say, to the debate on the supplementary communication on climate policy, that I do not agree with what the Council of State said here. I would like to remind you that even current Prime Minister Bondevik was one of the critics of the Stoltenberg government that we were very late in presenting the climate report when we presented it in June. Then I just have to stress again, as I said in my main post, that I think it will be a very long time to spend half a year providing an additional message to the excellent climate message that lies there, because it is actually urgent to do something. Then I want to touch a point on which the Council of State was not involved, and this is about the question of the right to hunt and fishing and the right to use our nature. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that everyone should be able to use nature, no matter where one lives, and no matter how rich one is. I pointed out in my main post that several representatives of the Right, among others. Mr Ansgar Gabrielsen and Mr Bjørn Hernæs, the current Minister of Economic Affairs, have suggested that hunting and fishing should be much more expensive. Björn Hernæs said, among others: to Hamar Arbeiderblad on 14 August this year that it is the market that has to determine the price of hunting and fishing. I am very pleased that the Council of State has signaled that one will leave the outdoor message that the government Stoltenberg has submitted, to be located in Stortinget as it is. That's what I think is a very good signal, but then it's time to ask: Is councillor Børge Burnde agreeing with his right-wing colleagues that hunting and fishing should be more expensive, so that it actually becomes an exclusive right for some landowners and some of those who have the best advice in this country? Or does State Council Børge Burne believe the same thing that the Workers' Party is engaged in, that the right to use nature is something that everyone in our country should benefit from, no matter how rich or poor one is?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e807	I have no problem agreeing with statements that the climate communication that was promoted by the previous government in June of this year was too late. It was too late, but when it arrived, it did not contain any important elements on how to implement a quota system in Norway. On Tuesday, the EU presented a proposal on how to implement a quota system already in 2005. When the climate communication, which took so long, did not adopt a more offensive climate policy than failing to address what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the Kyoto agreement, namely a proper quota system, it actually requires a little more work. I then, of course, immediately start working on an additional communication for the climate communication, but I think it is important that we now get the round that will come in Marrakesh on the negotiations on climate, i.e. a continuation, and to create legal texts under the climate agreement signed in Bonn. We have to put that in place. We also need to be able to go a little further into what the EU's new quota system involves. But our objective is also to have a national quota system so that we can pursue a more offensive climate policy, because it is, after all, about something as serious as the planet's climate. And then we actually need a few months to work out something that the previous government didn't do in a much longer time. Compared to the other question that was raised, it is due to a basic misunderstanding that someone in the Right would go in to increase the prices of hunting and fishing. There are no existing price regulation mechanisms that work today, but since the outdoor communication is now there, it is actually a proposal that the Directorate for Nature Management can go in and look at it, and we will then discuss that in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e814	So-called environmental measures and environmental protection and industrial activities are often a conflict-affected area. The Sem statement states that ‘in the breeding of salmon and trout there are still large growth potential’. That's absolutely right, as long as breeders have access to sea area that makes farming possible. In the political platform of the Cooperative Government, the Government is calling for the protection of the wild species. This shall be done by adhering to the principles of national salmon watercourses and national salmon fjords as a means of preserving the wild species. This means that large areas are connected and therefore cannot be used for farming. The protection proposal, which is now being consulted, has led to major protests. Very many communities affected have protested. The same is true of the Norwegian Fish Breeders Association, which has given clear advice to the new government to abandon these plans. They have no faith in blind protection, and it really hasn't signed either. Because it's a fact that wild-axis fishing has been the best thing in the last two years in several decades. There are completely natural variations in the wild axis. So do more and more researchers. You have to take into account what are natural fluctuations in nature. It's a fact that everything protection usually starts in the small. We have good examples of this when it comes to predatory policy. And when you start here with a proposal to protect 22 salmon fjords and 39 national salmon streams, I'm worried about the future. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State wants to take account of the protests from all over Coast Norway, which the Association of Norwegian Fish Breeders has brought in, so that the farming industry can continue to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e827	As far as I know, the deadline for consultation expired on 1 October when there were proposals for the establishment of 39 national salmon rivers and 22 national salmon fjords. So once we get an overview of the hearing opinions that have come in, we in the department will start working on a roll-out proposition in this area. It has to be remembered that these are difficult balances. It is important to have a strong breeding industry that has opportunities, but at the same time it is an important characteristic of Norway that we have both salmon fjords and salmon rivers. And the Rieber-Mohn committee, which was the first to review this, had an even more comprehensive proposal than what has now been at the hearing, as far as I have understood. I want to make some adjustments to the fact that we have to have a robust wild-tailed strain, while at the same time giving nutritionists in this area opportunities. The objectives of national salmon watercourses and fjords are to provide a range of the main wild-tail populations with specific protection in both spawning, breeding and hiking areas. The protection is directed mainly against harmful interference in watercourses and adverse effects on fish farming. If we don't organize salmon through salmon traps, if we don't organize the environment for salmon and the natural biotopes, the decisions we make today are irrevocable, then the wild axis can be gone forever. There is also a perspective we need to bear in mind when we are concerned about sustainable development. After all, I think it's an incredible gift to continue to those who come after us, the incredible thing that's connected to the salmon's ability to find back to the watercourses where it was born, etc. So these things have to be weighed up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e836	I congratulate Børge Burnde once again on the job, but I have to admit that I was somewhat surprised when I was told that he was appointed new Environment Minister – the politician who was characterised by Nature and Youth in the election campaign as an environmentalist who should stay far away. In SV, therefore, expectations are not exactly cloudy, and in this way the Council of State can only surprise us positively. But the fact that we've got a new Environment Minister named after a National Park, Børgefjell, may be an indication that the new government has at least one environmental policy area. Another thing I've noticed is that the Environment Minister has kids who are at the Ink Wolf Club, and that's good, and he might get some positive environmental impulses from home. Because if the new Council of State is inspired to make an effort for the environment, we in SV are convinced that he will have great impact in the government. So our greeting to the new Council of State is this: if only the Council of State wants to, he'll get enough! But we assume that at the same time he is aware that if the Government is to have a majority in favour of a good environmental policy, it can only happen with the support of SV. SV will always be ready to cooperate on a better environmental policy. But we are mildly concerned about what kind of environmental policy will result when the Government has chosen to support the Progress Party. So my question to the Council of State is this: How in the world has the Government planned to adopt a government budget with a credible environmental profile when you rely on an approved stamp from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e843	First, I would like to thank you for the congratulations, although it was conditional. I just have to say that at least I will do my best to defend a balanced environmental policy. It's a challenge, and I think SV should also find a good deal of positive in the Sem statement regarding the environment. I have announced today that we will make an additional notification about the climate. We want to force the introduction of a national quota system. We present our own big-time message that will take care of our marine areas and pollution and make some important borderline moves there. We will require an action plan in relation to PCBs and pollutants. I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assess the legal aspects of the United Kingdom's Sellafield emissions, and we have announced that we will also intensify our efforts to obtain pollution-free gas power plants in Norway. We are willing to use the market to achieve this, so that pollution-free gas power plants will drop electricity taxes on the basis of the 2002 electricity tax. This is the beginning of a more offensive environmental policy, I believe, and I have no problem defending it from the Government's point of view, and I hope that we can cooperate with all parties in the Stortinget who want an active environmental policy. I absolutely accept the invitation from SV. We have a lot of common contact here, and SV has a lot of engaged environmentalists that I look forward to working with, including on these issues. With regard to the Progress Party and the budget, I must say that I am not worried about the environment and that budget. The party of progress and the government sees something different on some environmental policy issues, but I think that should always be able to resolve it in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e854	The terrorist attack on the United States on September 11 was a powerful force of thought for the whole world. It all seems incomprehensible and meaningless. In addition to concrete targeted physical terrorist attacks, it now seems that we may also witness biological terrorism. This makes it sad to note a distinction between the period before and after 11 September. This is reflected in general uncertainty about what will happen now. The economy is unfortunately showing signs of decline. People's desire to travel is less, and there is widespread concern about what this new situation will bring. In such a situation, it is good to be able to gather together in a community and stand together on the basic values that we want to have in society, such as freedom, democracy and tolerance. The Government, in its declaration, has underlined the importance of this. The party of progress shares this view. We gather as people around common values, but we also gather together with our allies and most other states that have also joined the fight against international terrorism, which is now manifesting itself at Osama bin Laden and his network. What we now experience in the world is almost unique and in many ways new. It breaks down with old models and gives insights into new relationship patterns, e.g.. the new cooperation between Russia and Israel, the slightly changed signals of Russia in relation to NATO enlargement and the improved relationship between China and the United States of America. This alerts us to new challenges for the world community. Let's take these examples to show that the world community is united in the fight against terrorism, and that the number of states that might think of being hosts for terrorists like Osama bin Laden is negligible. One unintelligible expression that has emerged in the social debate since 11 September is that the United States has itself to thank. Author Gert Nygårdshaug expressed it this way in a chronicle in Dagbladet: ‘U.S.A. can thank itself for its longstanding economic and military terrorism, for its self-understood role as a world police force, its trade regime and its looting of poor countries around the world.’ No one has to thank themselves for what we experienced on 11 September. No one has earned this type of attack. No democratic country has engaged in activities that give rise to such hatred. It is and will be an unforgivable attack from an enemy who wants to break down both the American country and people and the equivalent in other democratic countries. Blaming terrorism on poverty is wrong. There were not poor people who murdered thousands of people on September 11. The driving force of the terrorists is not economic, but fanatical. Their goal is not to improve the world for people, but to destroy people. The terrorists do not intend to end their acts of violence if the United States terminates its actions in Afghanistan. On the contrary, these fanatics see terror as legitimate as long as the American presence on the Arab peninsula persists, Israel exists and not the entire Islamic world obeys their teachings. History has taught us how dangerous it is to give in to aggression and terror. Now the whole open society is threatened, and now we have to defend ourselves, with firmness, to build a safer world. Unlike the past, the world is now united. All non-Iraq countries support the UN resolutions which sanction the measures in Afghanistan. The less violence required now, the better, but it is not determined by the United States or the United Kingdom, but by the Taliban regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e885	We have a big choice behind us, which meant big changes in Storting's composition. Nevertheless, there was some tension about whether this changed composition would give a strong change of course in Norwegian policy. The tension was primarily linked to the choice that the Christian People's Party would make. Now the Christian People's Party has chosen, and of course we must take note of that. I still want to stop a little bit at the argumentation at the line break. Because when some from the Christian People's Party are asked why it was right to enter into a new collaboration, they answer: because you had gone to elections on government change, and then you had to follow it up. That's right. You went to the elections to get a government shift with a center option. It didn't work out. Thus, it had to be possible to discuss other solutions, if that was really the policy that was most important. A change of government, a change of course, must be defended and justified by the content of the policy, not by the choice of a change of government. In fact, the Christian People's Party is now entering into a partnership with the Right and in the next round with the Advance Party, a strong shift in Norwegian politics. 12 of the last 15 state budgets in Norway, and hence the main direction of policy in Norway, have been adopted in cooperation between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre. This is where the focus of Norwegian policy has been in the last 15 years. In fact, in a number of areas, we have been so close to each other that when the centre took over after us in 1997, and when we took over after the centre in 2000, in a good number of areas, it was the same policy we could pursue, although there were some issues that created debate between us. It's a powerful shift we're seeing now, when the Christian People's Party enters a government with the Right that's going to be based on the Advance Party. In particular, it is a violation of Prime Minister Bondevik's earlier words. Before the election in 1997, when he was asked just about such a Christian People's Party-Left-Right government would be governing, he said at the national meeting of the Christian People's Party in 1997: ‘Such a government will not be manageable. The only thing that can prevent this is to make yourself dependent on the Progress Party. Then we have to rely on the liberalist extreme right in Norwegian politics. This is impossible for the Christian People's Party. We then fail to shoulder our responsibilities in the work of those who are weak in aid, in alcohol policy and in the fight for better economic cushioning.' That is precisely what the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister have done. My wonder is: what is so fundamentally different about entering into a partnership with the Right and the Left and relying on the 2001 Progress Party in comparison with 1997? Is there any less need to take a stand in the fight for the weak, unhelpful, alcohol policy or in the fight for better economic cushioning? Because it is still the most important policy, is it? If we look at the policy, we will see in the field by area that another political focus in the Grand Duchy could give a policy closer to the lines the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have cooperated on until now. In the case of tax bills, the Right would have NOK 40 billion. The Christian People's Party could reach NOK 12 billion. The Labour Party proposed NOK 3 billion in the budget. It's not going to be so much math to see what's closest, and the Progress Party hasn't got its way in Stortinget yet. We're proposing $1 billion for kindergartens. Here we could find common ground. The Progress Party has not yet come close to that budget. We're proposing $15 billion for school construction. That package was not good enough for the Christian People's Party in the election campaign, but now it seems to get life's right. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, the Minister of Agriculture says we should have a non-profit-making agriculture. Does the Minister of Agriculture forget, then, that that policy is actually defined in the budgets? Aid policy has pushed the Right to take on a promise of stepping up to 1 pst. of GDP over the period, but still the Progress Party must be included in the budgets where actual money is to be allocated. The Christian People's Party could choose differently. We could build the policy on another majority in the Stortinget. They've made their choice. If we don't respect that, at least accept it. Respect is something you get from the policy you actually pursue. We must, on the part of the Labour Party, pursue a constructive opposition policy. We're going to vote for what we're for and against what we're against. But I'm afraid we've got a new line that will have a lasting effect on Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e905	Here comes the next article from the Dream Battalion! I'd like to start with a quote from a 1974 public investigation: ‘At the end of the next hundred years, the CO2 content could reach 4 times today. [[in the atmosphere]] This could have a significant impact on the temperature.’» In addition, it says: ‘The possible consequences of major temperature changes may be disastrous.’ So this was 27 years ago. Anxiety about the consequences of the accumulation of CO2 and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is not new. What is new is that we can soon establish a globally committed climate agreement, which can at least be said to be a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The aim of the new negotiations on the future of the Kyoto Protocol, which will start in Marrakech at the end of October, is to move from the political compromise agreed at the previous Bonn negotiating meeting to a legally binding agreement text. In this way, the meeting is very important, as many countries aim to ratify the protocol after these rules are in place, including Norway. The previous government signaled in the climate communication that came this summer, that the process of ratification would start after the remaining negotiations in 2001. SV expects this to be a process that will not be unduly delayed by the new government's announced additional message that is expected to arrive in mid-March. We have no time to lose if we're to succeed in our goal of reducing our emissions by about 20 pst. by 2008 to 2012. This is the objective, and in this way I am very excited about what measures the new government intends to put on the table, especially in the light of the fact that it has stated in its cooperation document that it does not wish to impose more stringent emission requirements for greenhouse gases than is common in other EEA countries. So when the government underlines that it is going to present a message with an offensive climate policy, this is going to be very necessary if the planned gas power plants at Kolsnes, Kårstø and Skogn are realized, as the government adds. In this way, we in SV are very curious about how the Government will deal with the future of the process industry and the transport sector. There is no reason not to introduce measures in Norway now, and then we do not miss a strong commitment to new renewable energy. In addition, SV is on the track today with an offer of a completely concrete action. SV wishes to introduce a two-price system on electricity. This could contribute to the reduction of electricity consumption, while at the same time being a much more equitable system, by costing luxury consumption more than normal basic consumption. This is how we can achieve what is SV's objective: a red/green solution, which is both a good distribution policy and a good environmental policy. I repeat that if the Government in individual cases is to be able to create a majority for an environmental policy that is better than that led by the environmentally hostile workers' party government, it can only happen with support from SV. SV is clear in climate policy as well as in nature protection policy. But we are still concerned about what environmental policy will result when the Government has chosen the Progress Party as its supporting party. According to the party president of the Progress Party, the government will depend on support from the Progress Party in 80 p.m. by the cases in Stortinget. Today, the Chairman of the Progress Party has also demonstrated once again a fundamental lack of knowledge about the link between climate change and the energy problem, and does not even see the clear private economic gain for households in saving on electricity. As I did not receive a satisfactory response from the Minister for the Environment instead, I will again ask questions about how the Government has intended to adopt a government budget with a credible environmental profile when you are dependent on an approved stamp from the Progress Party. And I'd like to ask the newly elected Environment Minister what he prefers – to listen to the broad environmental competence in SV or to rely on a progress party that doesn't even recognise global warming as a real threat. Even today, young people in Bangladesh die as a result of man-made climate change. It is not certain that we here in Norway will experience the most disastrous consequences of changes in our life span. But we have a responsibility for our kids and for kids in other countries. This is a responsibility that we in SV take seriously, and we hope that the new government will do as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e941	The change of government represents an enhanced environmental policy commitment. The SEM Declaration of the Cooperative Government shows the willingness to take new and necessary action in a number of fields for a better environment and a shift in energy consumption. The gas power case was one of the most contentious issues the old landfill was dealt with. It meant that the centre parties could not take responsibility for the environmental pressures caused by the construction of gas power plants without cleaning technology, and the then government went off. For the Christian People's Party, it has nevertheless been important to contribute to bringing this case to a more correct stage. In common with the Right and Left, this has worked. Sem negotiations resulted in an offensive commitment to the development and use of new technologies with little or no emissions of CO2. The Co-operation Board emphasises good framework conditions for the development of CO2-free gas power plants. It will introduce a time-limited aid scheme for the production of such gas power plants equivalent to the reimbursement of a full electricity charge at the 2002 level. A hundred million will be granted. DKK over two years for research into clean-up technology, energy efficiency and commercial use of CO2. In addition, the new government wants to contribute to a cooperation programme with industry with a view to achieving CO2-free gas power plants. These measures are, in total, an important step in the right direction which should be of interest to both current and future builders of gas power plants. Our coast is exposed to serious environmental threats. The media have confirmed that an ecological disaster for large parts of the seabed is under way. Life is disappearing, and increasingly larger areas of our seabed have desert-like conditions. The government will increase efforts to recreate and preserve underwater biodiversity. A separate notification of the maritime environment during the current period will therefore be prepared. However, the greatest threat to our marine areas is linked to the Sellafield facilities in England. The emissions of radioactive waste affect and damage our food tank to a greater extent than previously assumed. It is therefore necessary to intensify efforts to identify the extent of emissions and damage as a basis for necessary reactions to the UK authorities. I am therefore pleased that the new Minister for the Environment has already shown an offensive attitude to this problem, among other things. by assessing the legal basis for any case against the United Kingdom. I support such an initiative as the British authorities have so far shown no willingness to take our concerns seriously. Climate policy is at the heart of the new government's environmental effort. The Stoltenberg government presented its own climate communication in the summer that is very good in many areas. Nevertheless, the co-operation administration will prepare an additional message such as: will focus on national responsibility based on the recognition of the Kyoto agreement’s assumption that a substantial part of the greenhouse gas emission action will be taken at national level. The Government will also underline the importance of the rapid operationalisation of a national allowance system. In this context, increasing efforts are being made to improve the provision of collective services. The government's ambitions for a cheaper and more flexible offer are an important prerequisite for more people to choose this type of transport solution over the private car. Especially in the most central urban areas that we have. An offensive environmental policy requires broad-based action. In addition to what I have mentioned, it should also be emphasised that the new government intends to facilitate more use of natural gas for domestic purposes. There are significant environmental benefits to be derived from this, not least in the transport sector and for industry. Natural gas used in industrial production has great positive effects when it can be replaced by oil. A number of industrial environments in the country want this. These include, for example: the country's largest industrial cluster in the border area. It is therefore necessary to continue the operation of a gas pipeline to Poland in such a way that a separate connection line into this area will be possible. The need for start-ups and initial investments in the region after the Norwegian Hydro has today decided to reduce its magnesium production in Porsground increases the need for a separate borderline. I therefore respond to the Government's announced call for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e962	As one of the nine representatives under 30 years of age in the Røjre Grandningsgruppe, I am very excited about how the members of the Socialist Youth who have now entered the Stortinget, and perhaps one of those who have been most offensive after the election, namely Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, have intended to implement their principles of abolishing private property rights, of shutting down the Defense, and of imposing a ban on hiring people in payroll. I'm excited about the class struggle, and I look forward to the revolution. And I'm curious about how the SV are going to deal with the party for which they are sitting on the Stortinget, today on this pulpit, represented by the party leader and Øystein Djupedal, taking away from what they stand for in these matters. More debt cancellation, removal of trade barriers and an end to agricultural subsidies – these are the demands of African leaders in The Millennium Action Plan, which was put together earlier this summer. The UN does not hesitate to call trade barriers for customs walls and quota restrictions for development barriers. It is a clear choice of value when the Cooperative Government wants to impose zero customs duties on all products from the least developed countries. The work on doing so began earlier this year during the Labour Party government, but it was only after hard and long-lasting pressure, among other things. from the right and after many, many no from the Working Party. The Labour Party stopped at the poorest countries. It had to be a government shift before we could go a step further. The fact that the Cooperative Government now wants to improve trading conditions also for countries outside the MUL group is a clear signal of a change of course, a shift towards greater transparency and a greater willingness to respond to poor countries' requests for more and easier market access for their goods on our markets. There are two reasons why it is so important to include those countries that are not the poorest. Firstly, half of the world's extremely poor people live in India and China, but the countries of India and China are isolated for wealth to come under the trade initiative. And it is primarily for the poorest people that trade is most important, because trade is a way out of poverty, a way out of closed political regimes. Secondly, giving greater and better market access is a moral question. As one of the richest countries in the world, we have a unique opportunity to go ahead and build trade barriers in relation to poor countries. The government is at the forefront of the job of opening up Norway even more and is contributing to the loss of some poor countries. 700 billion dollars every year because they are denied market access to rich countries. The positive attitude of the cooperative government towards globalisation and transparency is also clearly expressed by its commitment to making it easier for people from outside the EEA to obtain work permits in Norway, and it emphasises a more humane refugee and asylum policy. This, too, is a clear choice of value. Saying yes to a more open world requires that we say yes to a more open Norway, and that is an expression of a change of course after LO has for years told the Workers' Party to say no to increased labour migration. Time and again, the Workers' Party has had the opportunity. Time and time again, they've been listening to LO and closing the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e977	A new government always creates expectations and tensions about which policy line it will take. This government is harder to interpret than new governments in the past. Will it stay in the centre and get a clear center profile, or is it so that the Christian People's Party has got the Prime Minister, while the Right has to decide the policy? With the Progress Party as a supporting party in Stortinget, it can unfortunately indicate the latter. The political divisions in the Stortinget have, until today, been in many cases between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV on the other. Now these divisions are going to go across the new government. It will therefore be exciting to see what justice policy this new government will pursue. Will there be a unilateral commitment to police and more stringent penalties, as the Progress Party and the Right have the tradition of? Or are we going to have a more comprehensive justice policy where a rate equal to that of preventing crime from occurring? The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed that crime prevention must take place by focusing on the growing-up environment, drugs, leisure activities for young people, voluntary organisations and child protection. Crime is not something we can buy away from just through more police and more stringent prison sentences. We know that the societies that have committed themselves unilaterally on such a line have the highest crime rate. Efforts are needed where everyone has to contribute — individuals, non-governmental organisations, local and central authorities and the entire judicial system, including the police. Unfortunately, from the budgetary cooperation of the previous Bondevik government with the Right and the Advance Party, we found that typical prevention measures were lowered in order to raise more money for the police. In order to fill the police budget, they chose to reduce the allocation, inter alia: to the school leisure scheme. The tension now lies in whether Minister of Justice Dørum wins with his full support, or whether the right side also wins here the battle over justice policy. Norway is a good country to live in for the vast majority of us. That's why it's going to be extra bad to be poor. The Labour Party will fight poverty with all its gentleness. For a social democratic party, it is unacceptable for some people not to share in the wealth and prosperity development we have in Norway. We know from large legal aid surveys that the proportion of the population that needs the most social benefits are those who know least about their rights. Thus, the unmet need for legal assistance in the population is largely linked to legislation to ensure that differences between people are reconciled. The Labour Party therefore considers that the provision of legal aid must be part of the welfare system and an important tool to ensure the reconciliation of the differences between people. Last year the size of the store dealt with a big message about free legal aid. It was decided here that the income limit for inclusion in the scheme should be extended, that in more cases than in the past free legal aid would be provided, and that more legal aid would be provided under public law. The last thing went against the Right and Advance Party, and I'm excited about how the new government will deal with this matter when the further follow-up comes to Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that it is important to give priority to legal assistance in the public sector, so that we can gradually give all residents an offer of one hour of free legal advice. Combating poverty is important not only because poverty is an evil in itself, but also because large differences between people create a breeding ground for crime. A society with small differences is therefore also a good thing in a criminal policy context. The new government provides for considerable tax relief, health outsourcing and strong growth in the number of private schools – a policy that in all these areas we lead to greater differences among people. I am amazed that a party like the Christian People's Party will contribute to such a development, which in the longer term can also contribute to an increase in the crime of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1000	In the Declaration of Accession, the Prime Minister said that the objective was clear: ‘All children must have good growth conditions’. Recently, when it has been focused on parents using their children as weapons of divorce, it can hardly be said that all children have good growing-up conditions in Norway. The media have given us a picture of years of fighting where the children have been throwing ball. When we see police officers carrying screaming and howling children away from one of their parents in the middle of the day, this upsets the Norwegian people. Most people don't understand that parents don't take more into account their children, and that it has to go as far as we have now seen. But I think, unfortunately, this is just the top of the iceberg. Such things are becoming more and more relevant. I shall justify this claim with the following: 1st@item: inlistbox More parents are still cohabiting, and as the Children's Act is today, when a cohabitation ceases, Mother automatically receives parental responsibility.2. Fathers have now had the opportunity to take the paper issue, which helps to link children with their father even more closely in their lives. This strengthens Father's commitment and the desire to spend a lot of time with his child even after a breakup of spouses or cohabitants. Someone will probably react to that I say father, but in most cases that is still true – unfortunately. When society also demands that both parents participate in the growth of their child, we should facilitate equal access to this for both parents. It turns out that equality is still a long way to go in this field. There are now certain amendments to the Children’s Act. It should then be amended in accordance with social developments, so that the child is protected and the child’s right to have two parents is confirmed. That's how we can avoid looking up the media about an abuse of power against children. Departed Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem set up a fast-working group to deal with the issues surrounding this by bringing children with power from one of the parents. We're eagerly waiting for what comes out of this work. In the meantime, however, it should be considered that both parents should be present when the police are involved, so that the children can at least have their second safe stop. This will spare the children a traumatic experience, while the adults actually have to relate to each other. Some might claim that this is expensive for the parent who might travel to another side of the country, but I would argue that the price of having a mentally injured child is much higher. The matter is so important both for the children concerned and for society in general that we hope that the urgent committee appointed will deliver something concrete by the end of this year. On the basis of what I have said, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess a system whereby, in cases where children are brought up with police assistance, both parents are present.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1023	The representative Woldseth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1026	In the Declaration of Accession, the Prime Minister sets out the objective of the Government's family policy: «All children shall have good growth conditions». I want to start with this goal. It is a common goal that everyone can agree on for children to have it safe and well, for a safe and good growth is the best starting point for life ahead. But the goal of a good upbringing for all children requires political will in a society that is more influenced by individualism than by the Community idea. It was not exactly the Community idea that marked the election campaign that we have behind us. The right-hand side, which now has the political majority and which will shape its policy during this period, cried out loudly for tax relief and greater freedom for the individual, while the concept of solidarity was almost absent. The central government made visible in the dithering message that 1-2 pst. the population of our country is poor, i.e. that they have low income over a long period of time. Norway has dropped many places in the OECD ranking of poverty countries. This is unworthy in a country where private wealth and purchasing power have increased among large groups of the population. The dithering message determines that the differences have increased. We understand that it is difficult to be poor in a country with only the poor. But it is the jam heavy and difficult to be poor in a country with as many kingdoms as ours. A mother I spoke to told me that she was not going to attend the parent's meeting for her daughter. Reason: She thought it was flat and difficult to be against all the good measures the class planned, which cost. She actually couldn't afford it. She also said that when her daughter's class was going on something that cost something, she kept her daughter at home. They made a secret alliance so that their life situation would not be revealed. Under the Training Act, the primary public schools should be free of charge. This girl couldn't afford to participate in the theme tours class did. This is unacceptable and unworthy. The centre party would stress that the removal of excesses in primary school is a necessary and important step in reducing the differences. Good growth also means a meaningful leisure time with the possibility to participate in voluntary teams and organisations. That's how the kids make friends and make networks. Furthermore, it provides opportunities to develop skills for both body and soul. But membership of the football club costs $1,200 a year, and it costs $600 to participate in the weekly swimming training. It goes without saying that parents who cannot afford to let their children participate in school activities cannot allow them to take part in leisure activities either. Knowing how much friends and good social relationships mean for children's development and security, it is also important to understand the consequences of exclusion from this part of the growing-up environment. The Centre Party wishes to strengthen voluntary teams and the framework conditions of organisations so that more people can participate for a fairer amount of money. Today, there are about 58 000 children depending on social welfare recipients. The monthly social assistance rates for families are several thousand dollars below what SIFO calculates for a standard budget. The representatives of the Centre Party have, through a Document No: Eight proposals asked the Government to revise the indicative rates of social assistance in order to bring them to the level of SIFO estimates. Politicians in Kommune-Norway doubt the economic situation of the municipalities. In fact, it is in the municipalities that well-being is decided locally. However, it is a state responsibility to ensure that municipalities are given the opportunity to provide good growth conditions for all children and young people. The social assistance rates are determined locally. However, for social assistance rates to be raised to an acceptable level locally, municipalities depend on the financial framework provided by the Storting. The revenues in most municipalities are out of proportion to the tasks the municipalities are set to solve. When the Central Party places the poverty problem on the agenda, it is assumed that the municipalities will be provided with the necessary funds to solve the problems. In fact, the Government's declaration of accession consists only of words, and it shall do so. But we can actually afford to give everyone a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1047	The Declaration of Accession of the Cooperative Government provides an important basis for a new policy course that offers optimism and faith in the future. It focuses on Norway as a country of opportunity, where everyone has the opportunity to participate in the rights and duties of society. There is particularly one area I want to address in relation to the declaration, and it is the desire of the new government to actively combat discrimination and racism, and its desire to invest in good Norwegian knowledge and active job placement for people who otherwise have difficulties in getting a job. I'm very happy that the co-operation government is addressing this particular issue, because we know that many people with, among other things. a minority background is discriminated against on the labour market. We know that they have difficulty getting a job, and that many people who get a job get a job that is lower than their skills, skills, ambitions and willingness to do. And I think it's important to establish that the basic thing is that people are treated as individuals with the same right to be respected for their integrity and peculiarity regardless of who you are or what ethnic background you have. It is true that many businesses have a shortage of labour, while many people with a minority background have difficulty getting a job. It is a reality that many jobseekers with a foreign background, and not least foreign names, are not invited to a job interview even if they meet the current qualification requirements. This is paradoxical in a situation where the need for labour is so great. This is simply a waste of human resources that Norway cannot afford. We all agree that work is the key to successful integration. And to become a full-fledged citizen of Norwegian society, it is absolutely essential that each of us has the opportunity to become self-held and able to support ourselves and our family. And in a country where work has its status in Norway, integration into education and working life is the most important tool to prevent exclusion and discrimination on a lasting basis. The challenge here will therefore be how to facilitate the inclusion of more people who want to make an effort in the Norwegian labour market. The situation for many of those who have migrated to Norway is that, although they have a good education and competence from their home country, there is a great disparity between their education and competence and the profession they have here in Norway. One important reason for this is that many people have difficulties in obtaining recognition of their foreign education and professional practices here in the country. Here, it is important to have an effective recognition system, so that competent people can get a job corresponding to their skills and qualifications. We know that there is a significant need for labour, especially in the care sector. At the same time, we have many women with a minority background who have an informal but very useful and valuable competence in this area. I know that many of these women want to get out of work, but the barriers to entering the labour market are so big that they give up before they succeed. To do something about this, it is among other things. the importance of creating a system that can help to make the formal and informal competences of these women with resource strengths visible. Here, I hope and believe that the new cooperative government will play an important role, so that those who want and have the ability to make an effort in the Norwegian labour market can have a real opportunity to do so. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the declaration that the Cooperation Government has now made promises well, and I wish the new government good luck with the important work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1072	The person seeking the Sem Declaration and the Government Declarations on the policies that the new government will pursue is looking for in vain. These statements do not clarify. Quite rightly, most policy areas are referred to in positive order. Many long and fine formulations, to which we can all agree, give the impression that this government will find more money for most areas. I'm afraid, however, that when the final priorities are to be made, there will be a great deal of desire. For even if there is not so much tax in the statement, there are some specific wordings here. According to the statement, the Government will significantly reduce the collection of tax and tax levels. In other words, one will significantly reduce the state’s income. The government says nothing about what this will lead to in cutbacks on the expenditure side, but these will also be significant. In the election campaign, the Christian People's Party warns against the Right of its tax laws. In the daily newspaper of 7 June, the leader of the Christian People's Party, Svarstad Haugland, says: ‘It is impossible to cut as much as the Right wants in taxes and taxes without jeopardising well-being.’ And then Prime Minister candidate Bondevik followed up in the VG on September 3. Under the heading «Knuser Right Tax Lifts» he says: «Higher proposals are far too extensive and will lead to major negative consequences. We don't want to go along with them." In the same statement, he goes on to say: ‘We... will vote against these Stortinget proposals independently of government.’ Now, six weeks later, he confirms that the government he owns will produce many of the proposals he himself warns against so strongly in the election campaign. To date, we have only seen the front of the medal, and the government has chosen to push all the difficult options and the difficult priorities ahead. The answer to where the cut comes, and with what policy the government will lead, we only get when the budget is presented. After less than one week, several government councils have been declared inhabile. From time to time, all government councils may experience a situation that causes instability. But what's unusual is that a government council is declared permanent incapacitation in parts of its responsibilities. As far as I am aware, this has now happened to the Minister for Fisheries, because his brother is a second-leader in the Norwegian Silver Sale Team. If so, it raises some questions that it is important that the Storting get clear answers to. What is e.g. the limits of instability? What part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries will be taken care of by another Council of State? Large parts of Norwegian fishing fleet are mixed vessels fishing for cod and herring. How is the Minister for Fisheries to manage and follow up the fishing fleet if he is not to adhere to his entire fleet? Can a partially-inhabited fisheries minister negotiate on behalf of Norway in international negotiations where Norwegian fishing interests are involved? Answers to these and several other questions that have arisen because of the fishing minister's incapacity, I think the Stortinget has a right to do so. I have therefore today sent a number of questions to the Prime Minister about the stability of the fisheries minister. I expect and hope for a quick and complete answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1101	I've had the pleasure of listening to the Prime Minister several times when he's been talking about district policy. I think it is very positive both what he has said in debates on television, and not least now in the Declaration of Accession, and what is now in the document that was negotiated before the change of government. And I think the Prime Minister, like me, has seen when he's traveled around the country, that we have a desert spread here in the country. We have a desertification where people move from the districts because it's no longer possible to live there, where you put down shops, where you put down schools, and where you unfortunately put down a number of other public offerings. Why does this happen? I am aware that this is a complex problem, but one main reason is that the Storting has given up some very basic tools to control developments in this area. We have had a depoliticisation of a good number of important areas of society. Politicians have given up their tools of governance through both privatisation and liberation. This becomes like a carpenter – you take from him the hammer, you take from him the saga, you take from him the wing, and you leave him with the thumb. Then it's hard to snort, when you have so little to help yourself with. And that's the way politicians have been too; they've given up the tools, and then you've got the thumbs left. And then you can measure and measure and measure, but there's not much to do. What has to happen then? Well, we have to give the joiner the tools back. Politicians must take control back. We have probably lost some tools, unfortunately, so we need to create new tools in rural policy, so that we can pursue an active district policy in accordance with what most politicians want. If not, a number of our communities will disappear in the next few years. I live in a community like this that has reduced the population by almost 50 pst. 30 years. And we have a number of other similar areas. We in SV take the Prime Minister seriously. It was just supposed to be missing! And we are eagerly awaiting the concrete measures that are now to be taken in the district effort. But we're a little skeptical when we hear the mayor say that she wants to move money from the districts to the cities, we're sceptical when we hear that it's going to be privatized more. More of the country's properties are also to be sold. Then we're skeptical. But we do not want to have a condemning attitude until we have seen the concrete measures. We are waiting in suspense, and we are especially at the disposal of the Government in helping to design a modern district policy that allows us to regain optimism in District Norway. But I have one advice at the end: there is no lack of words either from government or from big business that is the problem, there is a lack of action that is the big problem here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1114	Today, we have a debate on the subject of a new issue after an election. In this debate we have to make the long lines and the great visions. We're going to try to raise our noses a little bit from the individual budget lines and look around, and we're going to show up fast enough to show up again. New committees have established themselves, and some of us are now going to brief us in new directions. My balls and powder have now been replaced by the cultural, family and administrative committee, which may represent a bit of the softer side of life. I'm going to throw a little look away at the Defense again and again. But it's with anticipation and it's with tension I'm now going to my new problem. What is the role of the family in society? And where's the family place? The new cooperative government, unlike the ex-government, will have a diverse family policy. I'd like to quote from the Sem statement: ‘Cooperation management will put children at the centre of family policy’. The family is a solid building block in society. This is the main arena for children's growth. If we don't make the families work, we're weakening an important foundation in society. We want to give the primary responsibility for the children back to the parents, not because the state and the government will run from a responsibility, but for us, it is important that parents get the trust that actually serves the best of their children. The parents who fail to take that responsibility must be supported, and we must ensure that all children are raised safely. Child protection shall be provided for parents and children. Not all parents are doing their job, and that's why we need good child protection. We want to strengthen the role of parents and the growing-up environment of children through lifelong learning, parental guidance, voluntary organisations, a good neighbourhood in rural and urban areas, family counselling, cooperation between home and school and well-functioning child protection. These are are arenas that are important for families to become the building blocks that a society needs. Our message to parents is: We have faith in you. You are a very important part of giving children a good upbringing! To give parents this trust, we need to give room for diversity and flexibility. The cooperative government wants a gradual increase in cash support, and we are going to have offensive kindergarten expansion and cheaper kindergartens. The pooling of government grants to daycare centres in a single direct grant may be one of the main instruments. This will also ensure private kindergartens, which, after all, constitute – whether the Workers' Party likes it or not – at the lower edge of 50 pst. by our kindergartens. But society is also made up of people other than the traditional core family, and we need a family policy that adapts to the new family pattern. There are many who are unanimous, and there are also challenges related to the same situation. Here, as the Co-operation Board has said, you can look at, for example: the impact of municipal expenditure on one-person households. Culture is the spice of life, and food without spices can often become tasteless and little exciting. We have a wide range of art and culture in our country. The co-operation administration will see it as important to ensure that a rich, spicy meal will also be served to the Norwegian people in the future. Voluntary organisations represent a wide range and diversity. Today we see that we have had a new and exciting interaction between public, traditional volunteering and new forms of action and organisation. Voluntary organisations are and shall be self-corrective and complementary to the professional community and not used to solve challenges in future Velferds-Norway. They need to be secured with adequate financial resources and framework conditions that stimulate efforts without public intervention leading to their activities. In our work in Stortinget, we meet many who are coming and going to lobby, who have things that they want to bring up with us. But there are some who are never going to stand at our door, and there are those silent voices that are never going to demand their right, because they have more than enough to cope with their own everyday lives. Internationally there are many, nationally there are also several. We in the Christian People's Party will also take this responsibility seriously through our work of mass destruction and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1138	The Norwegian people in elections showed that they wanted a change of government. They were tired of unnecessary regulation and bureaucracy, of taxes and taxes. The Government statement clearly indicates a change in course. I am pleased with the full introduction to the Government's value base. With the rapid pace of change we have in the world, where companies, people and capital can move around without special constraints, it is important to anchor our policies in long-term, thought-out values. Not least, the human suffering caused by the attacks on the United States, and the fight against terrorism that is now taking place, will have to be given great attention in the future. Through the common value view demonstrated by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Sem Declaration, there is a good basis for forward-looking and long-standing government cooperation. The declaration points to a number of assumptions to stimulate economic value creation in mainland Norway. It is forward-looking when the Government proposes to reduce the overall tax burden on both businesses and individuals. In a world where companies can locate their business where it seems most beneficial, we can't have a strange level of tax that comes into play with those we're going to compete with. Even countries that we have seen as high tax countries are now at full speed approaching a European level of taxation. There seems to be a broad political consensus that we should have an industrial policy that makes sure that we have a undergrowth of small businesses that can fight against interesting markets based on ideas, skills and progress. The level of taxation will then be important. The NHO competitiveness survey clearly shows that we are relatively poor compared to countries with which we compete for location of activities. There's a lot of relationships that we score pretty bad, some relationships we also score well. But when it comes to business climates, how we want business to be, we're a little bad, even though there's a lot of beautiful words, especially in the celebrations. That's why it's incredibly exciting to hear our new Minister of Education saying we're going to be the best users of new technology. It carries a command of something incredibly exciting. But what is, to a large extent, an obstacle to the unborn businesses, the new businesses, the entrepreneurs, yes, in fact most businesses, is the jungle of laws, regulations and regulations that have to be incorporated into and enforced. The formwork that is established strangles many of the good ideas and many of the business ventures that we would like to have to meet the value creation needs that we will have when oil gradually becomes less relative to our economy in the short term. A recent study also showed that many of those who had any ideas and would like to start something, got sick and sick of all the things they felt they should have done, but they did not have the energy and did not have the skills to do. How many regulations and forms for gathering information about the enterprises would not have disappeared if it had been as strict as the expiry date, the last day of consumption, in this field as in the grocery business? The government of Stoltenberg had great ambitions in this field. The effort produced rather thin results. I therefore trust that the Government will put these issues even higher on the agenda, so that the State Council with extensive powers from the Prime Minister can achieve results in this area across ministerial borders. And further, if we are to succeed in a good aftergrowth in our business life, with companies that can ensure our long-term well-being, we also need a strong stepping up of research efforts, including in companies. Cooperation between innovators, research institutions and enterprises needs to be improved. Here, the proposed tax incentive for the FOU activities could contribute. But it is often difficult to bridge between our good researchers and the founder, the small business manager or the one who has the ability to commercialize things. Programmes and actions that can contribute to good contact between the different environments should be stimulated. We talk nice about competence building and innovation. It is good if the Government prioritises measures that can reduce the barriers to good development. We have good assumptions. Let's not let the good ideas die until we've tried them out in the market!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1161	As a newly elected representative of big business, it is with a certain awe that I look forward to exercising my elected position here at Stortinget. The majority shall reflect the will of the people through their elected representatives. That, in turn, is the responsibility of each of us. It is important that we take over these signals and conduct a responsible policy. After first hearing the census and then the Bondevik government's declaration of accession, it is my opinion that there are clear ambiguities, but not without a bright spot. Unfortunately, in today's societies, children, young people and older people are constantly experiencing situations that they perceive as threatening, frightening and violent. Such a daily life is in stark contrast to what Prime Minister Bondevik said was a challenge for the cooperative government: ‘Legal security and security of life, health and property are important prerequisites for freedom and the development of life. The Government will make crime prevention and combating one of its most important tasks.’ Of course, such a commitment will be supported by the Advance Party, and especially as we perceive this as a signal that more attention should be paid to victims than to offenders. Too many have had their lives ruined as a result of the opposite policy. It has been shown in this and last week to a criminal case that has made it apparent that today's system is not working well enough. I therefore hope that the Government – by reference to the Prime Minister’s words – will follow up on its good intentions, and that it will not just be a tribute. Those who live here don't deserve it. When the Government also refers to freedom and life development, it assumes that most people should be able to feel safe in their homes and in their neighbourhoods. In the Sem Declaration, the new government comes with many crime prevention measures, some of which are concrete, while others are more vague. I want to point specifically at one point, where, among other things, I want to point at one point. is: ‘violence and sexual crimes will, as a general rule, mean prison sentences and closed acquittals.’ It would have been interesting to know who, having done such a thing, should not have a prison sentence and closed accolades. If this refers to those who are incapacitated, we assume in the Progress Party that society will also be protected from these. Otherwise it will be a completely wrong signal to give! Criminals who commit such acts must and must be protected from society. It is a fact that Norway no longer sees only serious crimes on television, but that, on the contrary, crime is also being perpetrated here in countries for which we could have been better protected. When reality is like that, society in return must show that it is not accepted, by imposing severe penalties. The Progress Party therefore considers it perfectly natural that the new government should assess the current criminal framework and present it as a matter for the Stortinget. Of course, if they give a clear signal of increased penalties, especially in cases involving child abuse and the practice of gross violence, the Progress Party will support this. The Prime Minister also said that the Government will pursue a policy based on ‘the freedom of individuals’. If it means a freedom where individual responsibility is at the same time imposed, the Progress Party agrees with this wording, because our policy gives rights to those who live here, at the same time as they are given responsibility. Today, it may unfortunately seem that most people are more concerned with their rights than with their responsibilities. Finally, I would like to express my concern at the proposed defence budget presented by the government of Stoltenberg. It is with great wonder I record that the government chose not to follow up with sufficient appropriations according to Stortinget's decision, cf. the treatment of the conversion of the defence in the spring. Fortunately, the Bondevik government has stated that ‘the conversion of defence will be carried out with the necessary funding’. The action itself remains to be seen, but the intention is at least very good. The party of progress, which is very concerned with the role and function of the defence, will clearly be a co-player in relation to the follow-up to previous decisions on the functioning of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1193	This debate is now largely about the new government's promise of billions of dollars of tax. The working party's main score is unbalanced after all these hours. So big tax bills will have to go out on something. In a Right- predominant government, it is likely to become an important area of well-being. This is confirmed by the simple reason that money cannot be used twice. Whether or not to give tax relief for 25 to 30 billion dollars, the same money can't be used to build up well-being. Then, on the contrary, there will be less money for well-being. Politics is about prioritizing. In the Sem declaration, government parties have not made that clear. The Prime Minister also failed in the Declaration of Accession. The government lists many good measures to strengthen well-being, health care, schooling, assistance and transportation. At the same time, they're going to give tax dollars. The promises of tax relief are the most concrete, and then I'm afraid that it's the welfare promises that this Right-dominated government finally – that is, in budgetary context – will downgrade. My new subject area, the transport sector, can be a good example here. The government of Stoltenberg, in its submission to the State budget, has increased the investment in transport by over DKK 1.2 billion. The working party will follow up the National Transport Plan and start a lift on the transport page. It's important for districts, it's important for business, and it's important for people to be able to get where they want it, when they want it, whether it's for work, for leisure or cultural activities, or it's for bringing children to kindergarten. The government party says they will use even more, both for road and public transport. I have a hard time seeing how this can happen. It would mean less to something else. My experience suggests that there would be less assistance, labour market measures for those outside the labour market – this is where we find most of the poor among us – to maintain full wages under illness or for important cultural purposes. Before the elections in 1997, the Christian People's Party and the Right promised enormous investments in the field of culture. In the spring of 1997, the centre and right-hand side went together to promise nearly 10 billion dollars more than the Jagland government provided. When Bondevik formed a government and later leaned on the Right and Advance Party in the State budget for 1998 and 1999, there was no crown of these promised sales billions. They came first when the Labour Party and Centre cooperated on the budgets for 2000 and 2001. What will happen now, we don't know, but in the Labour Party we have recorded that there was the requirement for tax relief that was the strongest during the budget negotiations. Here, Right ultimatum, not in health, not in school, not in transportation, but in tax laws – mostly for those who have the most of them. Many, like me, are very concerned that the same thing can happen again. History shows that tax laws always come first at Right. It's reasonable to think it's also going to be like this for a Right-dominated government. In the field of transport, we have major challenges that are important for people and important for business: In the big cities, the collective effort must be strengthened.In the districts, we must work for proper road maintenance, good ferry service, race safety and good aviation connections at a reasonable price. Then, among other things, major road projects to be carried out. I can take Lofast and E6 through Eastfold as two examples among many.Every year 300 people die in traffic. Those are numbers we can't live with. For me, it's so simple that we can only do more of this if we use the money here instead of tax relief, in the same way that we can do more for the school, for kindergartens and for health care. The representative, Oddvard Nilsen, said in a reply today that the government would be able to afford both tax relief and increased investment by taking advantage of the returns of the oil fund, the growth of the economy and otherwise in the usual way. He referred to the efficiency of the public sector as an example of the latter. The Stoltenberg government has shown a lot of activity in this field. The big difference between the labor party government and Bondevik's new government is that we want to convert and renew to make the public services better, not to save money to pay taxes. When we reorganized the police, it was to get room to get more police out in the streets. Now that we in the budget have made proposals to reorganize the vegetation, it is to reduce bureaucracy and get more road and road maintenance out of the money. It's perhaps the most important distinction between our right-hand side and our view of the public sector. I believe that the years ahead will see clear distinctions in Norwegian policy. I am sure we will soon learn that it is not possible to say yes to both. Bondevik II, supported by the Progress Party, will take priority to be at risk. The option of releasing the economy will increase interest rates and increase the risk of reducing competitively exposed industrial losses and value creation. I look forward to the truth's glance, to seeing all the cards. But I'm afraid on behalf of most people and those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1227	Unlike the Government, SV believes that a good and equivalent welfare offer requires a strong public sector. The quality of public service needs to be improved and the legal requirements of users need to be strengthened. The biggest challenge in the public sector is not efficiency improvement and conversion, as the new government claims, but I believe that is the manning crisis we now have in the public sector. Expensive temporary employment solutions from private companies are unfortunate for employees and for those receiving the services. This may lead to a deterioration in the quality of services and to users rarely hit the same person when they need help. This particularly affects senile and mentally retarded people. There is a large majority of women employed in the public sector, and surveys show that there is a clear link between gender segregation and pay differentials between women and men. Where there is a majority of women, the pay is low. Poor pay, low ground staff and high sick leave are what characterizes many women's jobs. And here we are facing a significant challenge in the future to bring about clear changes. If we are to motivate today’s youth — girls and boys — to train to work in the public sector and in heavy care, we need to do something about pay and working conditions. Private temporary employment agencies renting out labour in the health sector are a good example of how private actors make a serious contribution to exploiting the situation of low basic staff, and it is costing public services. The added value of women in working life is not reflected in today's wage levels. Combination of high kindergarten prices, low pay for women and a cash support that the new cooperative government is warning them to increase are key factors in strengthening the manning crisis we are now seeing. To do something about this, I believe that one of the main policy challenges is to bring kindergarten prices down to a maximum price of $1140, while improving public sector pay and working conditions. Kindergartens shall be an offer to all children, irrespective of their parent’s economic, social or ethnic background. There should be a good care provision and a shared arena where children can develop in a social interaction between other children and adults. It will be important to provide a good financial framework for kindergartens. I am afraid that the price-of-unit financing can create an unpredictable economy for kindergartens. Kindergartens must not become a commodity for sale that operates at all times on pure market principles such as supply and demand. There must be indications in the grants to kindergartens, with concrete requirements for competence among staff, for the number of children and for areas inside and outside to be in a good place for the very least. The future is to bet on children and young people. The possibility of getting a good crop must apply to everyone. It is not acceptable for children in Norway — in one of the world’s richest countries — to have an increase in poverty. It is possible to do something about the poverty of families with children. There is no lack of money, but we need to get a cooperation and a willingness to understand that someone needs more help than others. Then it's not about giving more to those who have the most from before. Poverty exists because there is a political will in this Chamber to maintain it. Treatment provision for children and young people is too poor. Lowthreshold services available when young people need them need to be addressed. Youth health centres and outreach activities are good ways of meeting and getting to grips with youth problems at an early stage. School health services and child protection need to be strengthened and re-introduced in order to be able to meet the major challenges that characterise many youth environments. This applies, for example: slender pressure, increasing numbers of young people with anorexia, consumer and purchasing pressures from market players and increasing alcohol and drug abuse. We need completely new arenas for multidisciplinary cooperation to meet these challenges. We in SV promise to do ours. To bring about change, I hope that we are enough in this room to do the same. Our new social minister has already been out there and promised: a high level of care and a high level of effort in relation to the problem of poverty. I look forward to the budget that is now coming, and there should be quite a lot of resources for these important measures for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1242	Neither defence policy, security policy, national preparedness policy nor, for that matter, foreign policy will ever be as before 11 September. The cruel terrorist attack on the United States, on the World Trade Center and on the Pentagon, has not only focused on national and international preparedness for terrorism. The current situation shows that the threat picture is completely different from before the fall of the Berlin Wall. For years, ethnic conflicts, civil wars and regional wars have threatened world society, not only on the African continent and elsewhere in the Third World, but also in Europe. Nuclear material is out of control, in the hands of terrorists and unstable regimes. The nuclear threat is no longer about arms race between major powers, but about nuclear weapons among parties in regional conflicts, among others. in the Kashmir conflict. The bacteriological and chemical weapons that are wavy, we've gotten frighteningly close to our consciousness. Of 101 violent conflicts in recent years, only five were wars between nations. In the post-Soviet region, 150 million people live below the poverty line, according to the United Nations Development Programme. In the Middle East, peace is still far away. Norwegian defence policy can no longer be just armored vehicles rolling east towards a clearly defined area, or not to say a clearly defined enemy. They are of little help to the bacteriological powder in envelopes, to the crushed reagent tubes on a packed football arena or to the large passenger aircraft used as bombers. On 13 June, the European Parliament adopted a comprehensive change in the structure and organisation of defence, both in order to meet the commitments of Norway’s NATO membership, in order to cope with developments in the EU’s security and defence policy, and not least in order to ensure a defence and security policy that creates security in the everyday life of the ordinary Norwegian man and woman. The conversion decision is also a fundamental recognition that the defence has been in a deep, structural crisis for a number of years. A large but immature defence would be of no help to Norway, either nationally or internationally. Nor would such a defence be able to cooperate in an appropriate way with our allies. It is important for the Workers' Party that there is no contradiction between our international efforts and the defence of Norway. As a small, vulnerable and open democracy, Norway is dependent on both stable and predictable international framework conditions and strong NATO. The majority adopted a somewhat larger defence structure than the Stoltenberg government provided. Those who caused this increase had a cost calculation of approx. 30.9 billion per year. years – if it is possible to call it about. The Bondevik Government’s statement states that the conversion of the Defence ‘will be implemented with the necessary funding’. I have registered that the Council of State in the press has been very vague as to what she will do with any additional appropriations, and I am so excited about whether the Bondevik government is following up on the obligations of the same parties that are behind the Government, adopted on 13 June. The fight against terrorism must take place on a number of fronts: by hunting for economic networks, by eliminating poverty and conflicts that terrorists are pushing ahead of them, and by military means. One cannot rule out the other. And we know that with unresolved conflicts and poverty, there will always be some fanatics who are playing on these conflicts, and who are pushing these in front of them. In Stortinget, there is now a proposal from the Stoltenberg Government on additional appropriations to implement a number of emergency measures in Norway. Military preparedness measures, in the case of civil protection measures, are concerned with strengthening hospital preparedness and preparedness actions in a number of areas. But this is a matter that we will come back to in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1263	The policy of the co-operation administration is central to the individual. Together, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will call for the values that value personal responsibility and give freedom to the individual. In the Right we are very pleased that fundamental values such as respect for individuals and freedom under responsibility are central to both the government statement and the political basis of the Cooperation Government. The public sector and public services are available for each of us. It is the user of the public services that should be at the centre and the service provision should be designed to meet the very different needs and wishes of the audience. Individual-based solutions have little political tradition in Norway, and time is overdue to provide solutions that are better suited to the individual. It is completely wrong when the representative Jens Stoltenberg speaks exclusively about privatisation and two-sharing. This is what the voters have seen through, and the election result also said a clear yes to the parties that have put the individual and flexibility in focus. We take the voters seriously. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we shall do our utmost to create a simpler and better Norway. Today, Norway is at the top of the world in terms of public expenditure per year. the population. Nevertheless, we are not on top of the quality of public services. That is why we want to modernise the public sector. Therefore, the Cooperative Government will extend the use of competitive outsourcing in the public sector and equate the purchase of services from private enterprises with public self-production of services. Discrimination shall cease. At the bottom is a clear premise: Individuals must be assured that they are entitled to receive the public services when they need them. Competition is healthy. Together with public accountability and good control, public sector outsourcing will contribute to improved resource use, improved quality and more flexible and diverse service provision. Our newly elected prime minister, Jørgen Kosmo, also spoke in his time about modernisation, but it was talked about. Something else he wasn't allowed by Valla and Davidsen. If the public sector is to be more efficient, it must be exposed to competition from others. That was not the last government willing to do. Therefore, the results were also missing. I believe that Mr. Gunnar Halvorsen of the Workers' Party is quite right when, in the Aust Agder Blad on 23 October, he said: ‘The serious thing about the strong commitment to the Municipal Association and the Electrician Association is that they can manage Ap’s policy by contract. We have several examples of this." The aim of competitive outsourcing is not to privatize for the sake of privatisation, as our opponents like to present it. Freedom of choice, together with the quality and breadth of the offer, is most important. In contrast to what the Labour Party says, there is good evidence that competitive outsourcing has provided better and more reasonable services over time. In Nacka Municipality outside Stockholm, everyone can gain knowledge of the results after 30 years of experience with competitive outsourcing. The last user survey in Sweden showed that the population of Nacka is well above the national average in terms of satisfaction with the provision of services. However, one does not have to cross the pelvis after water. Researcher Torstein Nesheim presents Oslo as a good example of how competitive outsourcing in care services can be carried out in a good way. The co-operation regime is clear that competitive outsourcing is an instrument in the modernisation of the public sector. This contrasts with the former government, which in the Common Era only insisted on saying that the renewal of the public sector is essential in order to ensure all better services. In other words: conversion yes, but competitive outsourcing no. Unfortunately, when LO says no, then the Workers' Party says, "There's nothing going on." The close link between the trade union movement and the Workers' Party is not just a problem for the Workers' Party itself, it is a problem for our country that the LO has gained a veto over the modernisation work. The Sem Declaration shows the willingness to implement concrete measures for the modernisation of the public sector. It is positive and gratifying that the declaration states that the VAT code should be neutral in relation to the decisions of the municipalities. The VAT system shall no longer impede the use of competitive outsourcing. Together with more user-friendly public services and a slimmer and more efficient bureaucracy, resources will be made available in the long term so that key core tasks can be better addressed. We need a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1285	The President can assure you that the President will resist the temptation to take a line from the President's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1288	Norway, like the rest of the world, is leading an unstable and in many ways unattainable time ahead. The falsifying act of terror on 11 September will shape the world in the future for a long time. In addition to the unimaginable human suffering and the fear it has created, the event will also affect economic development. Directly, of course, this terrorist action will result in the need to channel greater resources into costly security measures, etc. than it was done before. Indirectly, this act of terror will also adversely affect the general economy by, for example, people. becomes more uncertain and thus more economically prudent. The risk of a serious international recession is therefore greater than for a long time. The United States, Asia and Europe are all broadly moving in the same direction, i.e. the economic outlook is much worse in the future. It would be naive to believe that such an international development would not affect Norway. Fresh figures also show that demand from Norwegian consumers has been reduced recently. Norway is in a special position, however, because we have a state wealth that many countries have reason to envy us. Reasonable disposal of this wealth may therefore prevent the effects of any recession from becoming unmanageable. Such a reasonable disposal of our state wealth is among others. to provide large tax breaks for both businesses and individuals. This will increase the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and it will increase the purchasing power of most people. Such tax relief would therefore have the effect of increasing the growth of the economy more than it would be without tax relief. Therefore, an investment in tax relief today will provide the basis for an increase in the total taxable corporate surplus and total taxable income over the years to come, which in turn will ensure Norwegian prosperity development. An increased investment in infrastructure is also a reasonable use of our state wealth. Many export holdings, including the fish farming industry in the West, hard work at high transport costs. An investment in the road sector will reduce these transport costs and increase the competitiveness of very many enterprises. The investment in the road sector should be made exclusively through public funds and without the use of toll financing. Existing tolling stations should therefore be decommissioned as a matter of urgency and be in force at approximately the same time. DKK 10 billion should be disbursed by extraordinary government funds. This will also increase competitiveness, provide a more efficient labour market and free up labour, which is currently fuelled by toll stations, for more productive work. In addition to the release of the public sector, these will be effective and good measures to mitigate the effects of the international recession that we see today. It is also worth noting that a delay of 6 to 12 months from a fiscal measure or, for that matter, a monetary policy measure is usually expected to be implemented as a result of the action is shown in practice. That is why we have very little time; this is where action is needed immediately!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1323	The new Bondevik government goes high in its declaration, not least in terms of transport and public transport. There, as in other areas, significant increases are being made. Let me immediately stress that I am in favour of cooperation on increased investment in transport, but at the same time I have a concern that what the new government has presented may become more written in true than actual reality. My concern for the government's economic thinking was created when one of the government's heavyweights, State Council Victor D. Norman, with great seriousness presented Ole Brumm as his ideological lighthouse. Now I also believe that Ole Brumm is a nice guy, but his reality is the Hundremeter Forest – the world is much bigger and harder. The government must show much greater clarity in its alleged commitment to public transport in the major cities, and that is not least Oslo. The Oslo City Council itself has a significant responsibility for the situation of public transport in the capital. We've got a subway that's under par, tram operation is soon a tragedy, and bus operation has been systematically driven down to the point where the city council seems to be able to secure an argument to sell out the entire operation. Oslo has become a good example of how not to organise public transport. In order to clean up the current situation and at the same time create a possibility for sensible development, the country's contribution will be crucial, and it will be both money and sharing of responsibilities. The submitted proposals for the State budget of the estranged Labour Party Government invite those responsible in the transport sector in the major cities to participate in efforts to strengthen public transport. It is assumed to be approx. EUR 2.3 billion for specific collective actions over the period 2002–2003, including alternative use of public roads for this purpose. This is a significant increase. It is assumed that SEK 2.1 billion of these funds will go to the larger cities, of which 75 pst. of these funds to the Oslo area again. It is proposed that the Oslo T-Bahn implement technical renewal in parallel with upgrading measures funded by the National Road Budget. The Ministry of Transport will have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County Municipality on the development of the T-Bahn. This is a good starting point for sensible cooperation. A solution to public transport is a prerequisite for solving the major traffic challenges we face across the country, and this is not least transit traffic in the major cities. A commitment to public transport in the major urban areas is not populism. It is about good socio-economic planning that can ensure viable and pleasant urban environments, where the environment can also be at the forefront. The Labour Party believes that narrow private economic interests will be insufficient to ensure a qualitatively good transport system. The government's contribution to the public transport sector requires a continuous use of tenders for public purchases of public services. That's a bad signal. This could easily result in the employees paying this bill. The new government should, as soon as possible, present a coherent and concrete policy that will ensure Oslo and the other major cities an opportunity to give public transport a future for the benefit of users and cities. It is not my opinion that Ole Brumm should be deprived of any political insight. So let me end with a significant quote: “For when you’re a Bear with Just a Little Mind, and you think about things, it’s often that things seem a lot trickier when it’s inside you than when it comes out and others can look at it.”
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1343	We're going into a time of great challenges and great opportunities. That's now the chance to lay the foundation for new value creation, a value creation that will once again lay the foundation for the future. To achieve this, we need a new course and a new policy. The purpose of the cooperative government is to increase the Norwegian research effort to an average OECD level by 2005. This is an ambitious objective, yet a realistic one. By investing both in basic research at universities and at the same time investing much more in business-based research, it will be seen that the objective can be achieved faster than expected. Many of the enterprises established in the years to come will be knowledge-based. Businesses will therefore need more people with education and a high level of competence. But they will also depend on solid research and technology environments. Business-based research in Norway is significantly lower than in our trading partners. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we not only have a grant scheme for business research, but also that we introduce tax credits for business research and development expenditure. This will stimulate companies to take more initiatives for their own research or for the purchase of research services. I am pleased that the Sem Declaration makes it so clear that the new government intends to follow up the Hervik Committee's position in this area. Norway is a country with rich natural resources that needs to be exploited. New technologies, combined with local insight and experience, provide the resource-based industries with a significant potential. By building on the sustainable management of resources, it is important that we strive to pursue an innovation and research policy that allows us to extract the enormous value creation potential that lies, for example. in the fisheries and farming industries. Growth in the aquaculture sector will also have a major impact on rural settlement and development. In order to benefit from the resources that lie along our entire long-range coast, it is important that the sea is clean. It is therefore gratifying that the Environment Council has already addressed the problems of emissions from the Sellafield plant in the United Kingdom. If these emissions continue, they may, in the worst case, put an end to most of the industrial activities along the Norwegian coast, thus putting an end to one of our main future industries, namely the fisheries and aquaculture industry. A strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for the further development of the Norwegian welfare society. International development involves increased competition for Norwegian business, and in the future the growth of industries along the coast and in mainland Norway will be decisive for welfare development. In order to avoid the move of the best industries to countries with a better competitive environment, it is necessary to gradually reduce the overall level of taxation. The government’s starting point is that society must encourage and facilitate people who are in the process of creating. It has to be more attractive to start your own business. In order to provide small businesses and to create good conditions, costly regulation needs to be removed and tax burden reduced. The form field, impractical rules and regulations create major problems for each enterprise. The objective of competitive framework conditions must permeate all public activities. Some of the most important steps we can take to strengthen private ownership in Norway are to step down the tax on wealth while at the same time removing the tax on dividends. Focusing on the environment, education and research is the most forward-looking thing we can do for the coming generations. That is exactly what the Government's statement says.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1369	In this debate, it is natural for us to make a comparison between the Labour Party's policies, which are visible in the census and in the budget presented, and the Bondevik II government, which is made somewhat visible by the Sem Declaration and the Declaration of Accession. Not everything is as clear, but some contours we see – at least I think we see them. In Stoltenberg’s enthronement, it says, among other things: on agriculture: «Norwegian agriculture shall be modern and competitive and contribute to a wide range of high-quality safe food.» This shall be made visible in the submitted budget by the main priorities set out: that consumers receive safe food of the right quality of agriculture as basic industries in the districts and as a starting point for the development of other more consumer-oriented and competitive agriculture that can provide the basis for lower commodity and food price increases in value creation in agriculture and forestry, at processing stages and in reprocessing activities in organic farming and land management research and development international public sector job renewal; Now I think the new cooperative government, the Bondevik II government, is basically not so much in disagreement with this. The celebration of the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was given for his work as Minister of Agriculture, should lead to follow-up. It also looks good when we just look at what the Government of Bondevik has said in the Declaration of Accession on Agriculture: ‘Cooperative governance will work for a viable and decentralised agriculture that exploits new technologies and market opportunities. An important task will be to ensure safe food for consumers, while reducing the difference in food prices compared to our neighbouring countries.’ But that's what I'm wondering, and I was somewhat surprised by Minister of Agriculture Sponheim's statement to the VG that the focus on food prices is exaggerated. In fact, this opinion was given before the Declaration of Accession was read in Stortinget, but it was only a few days before, and he had really agreed to the negotiations at Sem in Asker, and I also assume that the Declaration of Accession is a joint piece of work. That is why this is a surprise. That Sponheim's economy is so good that he doesn't have to look at prices, isn't a yardstick for the rest of the population's economy, especially when we can read in the paper that he, among other things. may fill the freezer with deer meat if the hunting in the harvest is successful. We also know that the Minister of Agriculture is dealing with sheep, and that probably also means that he does not pay the same for lamb steak as we do for the rest of us. No, I recommend the State Council of Sponheim to put itself better into the people's economy and view food prices than he has clearly done before the accession declaration. Although he may have moderated this statement in the nations yesterday, and that in his interview where he flagged that it is us in the Workers' Party he will cooperate with, it is wise that the Advance Party has based its policy on this cooperative government. At the same time, it doesn't help to give tax relief to people, as the government has flagged, if this is eaten by increased food prices. And Sponheim got a warm embrace from some merchants who, after his interview in the VG, have signaled that they will now consider raising food prices. In addition, the Co-operation Administration has also announced that they will repeal the Opening Time Act. Now this is not so spectacular when we know that the Right and Left are part of the Government, but more surprising is that the Christian People's Party agrees with this. Longer opening hours will result in higher salary costs for the industry. They have to take this back to some place, and where is it more natural than food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25-2.ana.ud911e1427	The regulatory time is too long. We have now come so far in the processing of the map that in tomorrow's meeting it would be possible to finish the registered speakers within a reasonable period of time. The President therefore proposes that the meeting be suspended. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker in tomorrow's meeting is Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
