ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2435	If no one has anything to object to, I will follow the call.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2447	The President will raise the secretary in the previous Storting, Signe Eye, if for now to act as a secretary, until the Stortinget has established itself. There will be a roll call from the representatives. The President takes note of the fact that the first representative of each electoral district will deliver the mandates of the National Election Council to the President as they are called up. The representatives then called up. The following representatives were absent: 3rd representative of the Aust-Agder County, Gunnar Halvorsen, 3rd representative of the Møre and Romsdal County, Petter Løvik, 4th representative of the Nordland County, Ivar Kristiansen, 7th representative of the Uppland County, Torstein Rudihagen, 8th representative of the Oslo County, Heikki Holmås, 5th representative of the Telemark County, Gunn Olsen, 1st representative of the South-Trundellag County, Gunhild Øyangen, 3rd representative of the Westfold County, Per Ove Wide. From five representatives there were permissive requests [[see below]] The representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen for the Eastern Agder state and Ivar Kristiansen for the Northern state had fallen due. The representative Heikki Holmås for Oslo was not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2460	The President will now propose that the last use be made of the Rules of Procedure, with the amendments adopted by the Council on 22 and 30 March and 11 June 2001. – It’s to look at as affirmative. Five permit applications are pending: From the Workers' Party's General Assembly on sick leave of the representative Gunn Olsen from 1 October until further notice from representatives Petter Løvik, Torstein Rudihagen, Gunhild Øyang and Per Ove Width on leave from 1 October until 19 October to attend the 56th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. The President proposes that applications be dealt with immediately and that they be accepted – and see that as agreed. From the first alternate of the Vestfold County, Vidar Andersen, there is an application to be released to meet under Per Ove Width's permit, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The application will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates will be called in to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Rolf Jarle Brøske For Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl For Telemark County: Rolf Erling Andersen For the South Trondelag County: Tore Nordseth For the Westfold County: Per Arne Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2517	Rolf Jarle Brøske, Reidun Gravdahl, Rolf Erling Andersen, Tore Nordseth and Per Arne Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2522	The mandate committee shall then be chosen. The proposed members of the PSC have been designated by the groups and the proposal has been split into their seats in the Chamber. If no one has any objections, it will be wetted in the usual way. In the event of divergent proposals being made, a useful written vote will be taken. The proposal put forward will then be used as a voice seat. – No objections have been raised to this procedure and the proposed procedure will be followed. As members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries, the following were elected by consensus: Bendiks H. Arnesen and Signe Eye [[Frp]] [[A]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-01.ana.ud1995e2543	The President will invite the newly elected members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries to meet immediately after the end of this meeting. The meeting of the Committee will be held at the meetings of the Financial Committee.
