ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e53	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e62	It is primarily the patients who are glad that the Workers' Party now has a majority in favour of the Government's reform of the specialist health service. Finally, we get a tool where one has the opportunity to end an unworthy black player game between county and state by the state taking full ownership of the public hospitals and organising operations through health companies. Health enterprises are welfare producers and shall not be operated for profit or dividends. The provision of healthcare shall be a public responsibility. The financial responsibility is placed in one place – with the state. Organisation of e.g. hospitals as self-employed health establishments, 100 pst. owned by the State through the regional health establishments, gives responsibility and authority where operations are carried out. The implementation of the national health policy objectives adopted by the Stortinget is ensured by the fact that the Minister of Health has the power through the enterprises to put this into practice throughout the country. The representation of employees in the boards of directors is given far greater influence than the present arrangement entails. The rights of employees shall be maintained and safeguarded through existing contractual and pension agreements and – it is important – one joint employer organisation. The user influence is getting better today by legislating that businesses are required to set up schemes where a systematic and planned process of obtaining the user's experience and views. For the first time in the Norwegian law, there is a ban on privatising the core activities of public hospitals. The sale of hospitals may be carried out only on the basis of decisions taken in Stortinget. A hospital or healthcare undertaking may not go bankrupt. The fact that the State assumes full and complete responsibility is not a scheme that allows for privatisation or closure. On the other hand, it is a scheme to equip the public health system to meet people's future needs. It has been said that this health reform is the biggest reform after Harald Haarfager's collection of Norway. A lot of people would think it's taking their mouths a little bit too full. However, the fact that we are entering a significant period of reform in the Norwegian health system can hardly be disputed. Former Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes used the term ‘patient first’ to serve as the basis for his investigations and proposals, which have continued through the development of patient rights legislation. This has given patients greater influence through the right to healthcare, clear access to justice and free hospital choice. Anyone who had to believe that this does not affect health care chooses to stick their head in the sand. At the same time, for many years in the Social Committee, I have noticed an increasingly strong discussion of unclear responsibilities. More pressing questions have also been raised as to whether we get the best out of the human and resource effort in the healthcare system. With a medical coverage in the absolute world peak – in 2000 293 inhabitants per year. occupational doctor — and health expenditure also at the global level — No. 3 in the world after the United States and Switzerland, measured in consumption per It is a paradox that we have long waiting lists, Corridor Asians and patients who need to be sent out of the country to receive curative treatment. Although our health care system is very good, you have to look for improvements on the basis of what I have said so far. Although the state acquisition of ownership and responsibility itself does not solve anything, in the view of the Workers' Party, this is a necessary condition for making much-needed improvements. Researchers tell us about the growing need for healthcare, where the following factors are important: the development of medical technology in the age structure of the population – towards an ageing population and the ageing health status of the population in society – most of us are becoming richer and richer and in the near future: the importance that genetic engineering, gene therapy and stem cell research can have for both diagnosis and treatment of people’s diseases I am very pleased that the bulk of the population supports the whole of the health reform – an important prerequisite for continuing everything that is good in the Norwegian health system, and improving what is not good enough. Of course, it is not unproblematic that many different groups do not agree with all parts of the health reform. I understand that some groups of employees feel uncertain when it comes to a major reform of health care. For this reason, it is up to the growth, government and, after each new company management, to ensure that employees have at least as good working conditions as they have today. Employee organisations must ensure that representation in the boards is distributed among the relevant employee groups, I am thinking not least of those groups that can be the most vulnerable both today and in the future, i.e. those working outside what is called core activity. It is also important that a person be given the most uniform and common occupational pension relationship possible, so that he does not experience any adverse competition in the field of pensions. With regard to the content of the health reform itself, the organisation of health enterprises is very central. It is important that the organisation be organised in such a way that the state carries out its own task without building up central bureaucracies. Money and personnel must be deployed where patients are, with great freedom and responsibility for health businesses, so that resources are used well. Regional health enterprises have, among other things: responsibility for ensuring that the region has the most complete provision of specialist health services for its population. This means a distinction between the overall planning strategy, which is the responsibility of regional health enterprises, and the operational operation, which is added to health businesses, whether there are now several hospitals or establishments cooperating and entering into one enterprise, or there are individual establishments which constitute the health business. I am satisfied that it is not in agreement with what I have perceived to be the Right's idea of a separate ordering body. As far as I can see, the experience from England, which has such a system, is quite daunting. There it is built up an enormous order bureaucracy. It must be as it is mainly today, that the most important orderer becomes the primary physician, who, together with his patient, chooses treatment services based on the patient rights legislation currently in place and is in use. At the heart of the reform is that responsibilities and decisions are put as close as possible to the patient and staff. That is why I have said that this reform is, to a large extent, a reform of responsibility, where it should not be easy for anyone to discharge themselves. Regional health enterprises follow the current division of health regions. This is good and offers good opportunities to continue what has already been done through the regional health plan. Should the future require a different division, it is a power delegated to it by this law at all times. As I mentioned at the outset in the form of a crossword, matters of major importance cannot be carried out without the approval and decision of the Minister of Health or the Stortinge. The reason is simple. Enterprises do not carry out commercial activities, but take care of fundamental interests for the well-being of society. I am also pleased that the reform contains a provision that prevents the formation of the core activities of public hospitals and that the core activities should be protected from separation and privatisation. I would like to believe that the companies also see themselves profited from doing other activities, such as: kitchen service, technical services, etc. I think today's practice from the hospitals shows that it's wise, and that it can be profitable. I know that user organisations would like to have direct representation in the boards. I think that users might have at least as much influence through the committed cooperation bodies that are being set up. I expect the different regional health companies to take this seriously and set up the bodies for which legislation is now being given, i.e. has formalised contact with user organisations and consumer representatives. Their experience is important to have further involved in the specialist health service. In addition to the political governance that is now taking place from collapse and government, the legislative proposal proposes a regional Council body, possibly composed of central regional politicians. This body is intended for important functions in relation to regional strategies and plans and will provide opportunities for regional involvement in the long-term development of health services in the region. At the same time, we know that the Storting will probably adopt a division of tasks that gives County municipalities greater responsibility on the planning side, and that we can also include health policy planning in it. I had expected more parties, not least the center parties, to support this. They have said in a very loud manner that this reform was suffering from a local political and political democratic deficit. I'm taking a distance from it. We who sit in this room, the jam is politically elected; it knows everyone who has been through nomination and further work in the Storting. I do not deprive myself of the right to be elected to the public and thus be able to exercise influence on health policy. I wonder what the politicians of the regions and county councils say if these parties, as I mentioned, were to vote against the establishment of this council. I would like to call it an unkind act in relation to the state politicians. With this reform in place, Health-Norway is ready for the European Specialist Service Champions League!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e167	The bill we are discussing today has been called the greatest reform since Harald Haarfager. The comparison fails at many points. Harald Haarfaferre must have been a considerable personality, and he took the time necessary to carry out his project. State Council Tune is no more Harald Hairy than what I am, it can all see, and he has chosen to run his project through in irresponsible short time, and therefore also in a way that causes him to push the problems ahead. And when Harald Haarfachre integrated the Western countries into Norway, this had clear advantages, at least for the rest of Norway. This law will prove to be of no benefit to any part of the country. However, a major and radical change is proposed, and it is remarkable that the less reflection the Health Ministers of the Labour Party have on the health system, the greater the reforms they bring. Here it seems to be a causal link. This bill involves a timeline of health policy, and not just externally, by the Workers' Party embarking on a line in which they must rely on the Advance Party and the Right, yes, where these parties are cheering for the proposal as an expression that the Workers' Party has finally begun to pursue the health policy of the Right. This is not just a matter of organising hospitals and specialist health services. Because under such changes, consciously or unconsciously, there is always an ideology, a mindset that says something about what values you're building on. That is why the struggle for a major organisational change in the health care system is also what we can call a struggle for the'soul' of the health care system with a bit of pretentious expression. The central government provided a big message about health care values. It was the first time that value issues were addressed in this context to a thorough review and debate. The message received a large and wide connection. But someone objected that these were a lot of words. Yes, it's just that the words are important, because just the words convey the values, they convey what we stand for. Then the struggle for the words, the struggle for the concepts, becomes important, because these concepts based on the different ideologies, shape our understanding, for example. by the health service. This proposition is in many ways the entrance march of technocrats and economists into health services. It's an attempt to make their conceptual world governing. So what do we want with the health care system? Do we answer in the health care language or in the curing language? The debate on the legislative proposal and the various comments in the vote make this clear. From the right, terms such as ‘order’ and ‘executor’ have become prominent. These are mythological terms from the Right Sky, or from the crest world, but it's probably the same thing. It's not the health care language. The language of the human being is: the patient in the center, the human being in the center. The language of the bill is: the head of the economy in the center, or perhaps the head of the department? The Christian People's Party is against this whole bill. We have noticed that this is also the attitude of almost all health-related professional organisations. Of course, organisations may be suspected of self-interest, but that cannot be the whole explanation. I have worked in or near health care for well over 30 years, and I have worked with many representatives from many different professional groups. What they've all had in common is that they've been on the patient's side, with efforts often far beyond regulatory and working time requirements. It is these people who are against this bill. This Christian People's Party sees it, it's just a good public health service that can give us the help we need, when we need it, and where we need it. In the case of specialist health services, there has been a growing recognition that county municipalities are in many ways too small units, while in many ways the state is too distant from many decisions to be taken. In our opinion, health regions are a decent level in this context, and there has been a good professional and political cooperation between municipalities in the five health regions. This cooperation wants the Christian People's Party to build on. The county councils have shown that they can cooperate, and the central government's proposals for hospital access rules should have been tested in the health regions. The Christian People's Party wants a health service, a specialist health service where elected politicians have and take political responsibility. This bill removes popular influence for the benefit of a model of governors directly responsible for the ministry and the Minister of Health. In this model, Stortinget becomes the only elected authority. It is then said that the Stortinget should nevertheless provide the overall health policy guidelines. That's true, and it's certainly a big and time-consuming task for the Storting. However, the consequence of this bill is that either the Storting must also take the health policy decisions that are now taken in county and health regions, or these decisions are taken administratively by corporate governments and departments. And I don't agree that this is about «professional» decisions. This is about politics. There are political and non-professional decisions when deciding whether to build a hospital in one place or another and whether to place one or another activity in this or another hospital. Such decisions should be taken by representative and responsible political bodies with closeness to the patient, not in the Stortingen and, above all, not in corporate or departmental boards. So the main problem is not state ownership itself, but the way this ownership is to be exercised. The Christian People's Party is against the whole law, and we have made that clear. However, we have also made it clear that if, at any point in voting, we can prevent the law from becoming so bad and, in our view, as inappropriate as it initially is, we will give our support to the least poor option. For example, we will support user representation in corporate governance by giving patient organisations the opportunity to choose a board member. This has been a clear wish of the organisations. We would like to comply with this wish, even though for my part I would warn everyone against being represented on these boards, where, in my opinion, they will in any case have a hostage function. Such a hostage function will also be provided to members of the proposed regional Council bodies. These advices are a clever trick to get health policy debate out of elected bodies with decision-making capacity and into ‘supplement’, which will have no real influence. I hope these advices are not adopted. If they do, I'll also warn you here that a person is fooled into participating in these. The rapporteur put great emphasis on these Council bodies and asked questions specifically to the central parties about what state policy would say if we were to vote down these Council bodies. I can reassure the case rapporteur that we have been in contact here with our state politicians, and we have been given clear advice that these do not want the health policy debate and decisions to be taken by the existing elected bodies and brought into these councils, which thus have no influence. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e197	The President would point out that souping is hardly an appropriate expression in the parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e200	It was in quotes. However, advice could be given for the consumption of liquid foods.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e207	I'm sure you could have. The representative of Are Næss has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e212	After the continuous appeal voiced by the representative Naess now, I recall an exchange of lines from the 1970s between the then Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli and a representative – I think it was another Christian People's Party representative – who would pour a drop of wormwood in a debate on which Prime Minister Bratteli went up and said, "Honor President! Why just a drop of such a liquid as the representative seems to have such abundant access to? [[Laughter]] It ran away from me, as I said, in my mind. Otherwise I would have intended to open with saying: finally. Finally, gambling and disclaimer in the Norwegian health care system shall be terminated. Finally, patients’ need for rapid and effective treatment with available capacity must be given priority to local policy considerations and to employees. Finally, Norway will become a health country. It's high time. For too long, interests other than those of patients have been dominated by health policy. That is why we are struggling with too long waiting time for many treatments. It is only when corruption and government are directly responsible for appropriations, priorities and functional distribution through a national hospital plan that we can ensure equal treatment wherever one lives in the country. It is only when hospitals are released as their own legal entities that they can do the work of benefit without undue interference in daily operational priorities from policy-making. Therefore, the health policy arguments for state responsibility for liberated hospitals are so obvious. However, this is only one element of a much wider reform process, which began with the introduction of input-driven funding and free hospital choice. For the Norwegian health system, reforms have long been over-mature, and it is right that Naess had to say that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that have gone in the break. But we are pleased that the Workers' Party has come after. State responsibility is a necessary but not a sufficient step on the way to health care in Norway. Further right-hand plane is clear: 1st@item: inlistbox The input-driven funding, ISF, must be increased to at least 60 p.m., and of course it should go directly to the hospitals.2. National State responsibilities must be combined with a high degree of local freedom for each hospital within the agreed economic and health policy framework. With today's decision, this is at best unclear, at worst up to where "interference rate" the Minister of Health is at all times.3. The distinction between the country’s role of ordering and performing healthcare needs to be legalised. These are not words that don't fit in the health system. Are Neess must be little known in the health policy debate outside this room if he has not heard this from both patient representatives and various occupational categories in the healthcare sector. And therefore, the Right has promoted legislative proposals that the public obligation to ensure that the population has access to qualitatively good health services is added to government agencies in health regions. This should be a direct political responsibility, as we see it.4. In the long term, several state hospitals should be able to be taken over by ideal, voluntary or other private interests. This will increase competition for the best provision of health, and new ideas and ideas will be more easily gained. The essential thing for the Right is to maintain public responsibility for the financing, prioritisation and functional distribution of healthcare. We believe that this responsibility will become clearer and more prominent if the state has to concentrate on this task. It won't be that important then, whether it's public or private that owns and operates the hospitals. In any case, privatisation will not be achieved when the hospital/health system is to be 100 pst. are publicly funded. The main governance will lie in the health and economic frameworks of enlargement and government giving to hospitals. It has taken a long time for a majority of Stortinget to come to the conclusion that this state responsibility reform is the best way to ensure that there are patient interests, not the local policy or the needs of employees at the centre of health policy. To be a little personal, my family has fought for this since 1969. At the time, Jo Benkow was the case rapporteur for the hospital law, but he did not get the big group with him under state responsibility. Nor did Christian Erlandsen get it or signed it in the 1980s. However, following increasing demands for state responsibility from patient organisations as well as health professionals and professional environments, this view has been won through in the Right. It is more difficult for a party with a history that is responsible for health care management to change policy than for parties without such ballast. That's why it was naturally the Advance Party that was first out there – be honoured to them for that. Laster so far is the Workers' Party. But I've noticed that the counterclaims also in that party have been many. That is why the Minister of Health has called for both courage and action to present the current Health Enterprises Act. I would like to thank Minister of Health Tønne for that, although the Right has some significant objections to part of the proposal. However, there is a large majority behind today's vote. That's good. But the majority should, in the Right's view, be more robust. If we had worked more together and come to a common understanding of the central paragraphs governing the sale of hospital services, the separation of medical functions and cooperation with private individuals, the law would become more robust. The right therefore regrets that the Labour Party has not shown its willingness to do so. The explanation is that even before Tønne presented his bill, the representative Alvheim was outside and promised subsidiary support! Understand the one who can. Then why would the Labour Party negotiate? No one can really think of them as preferring to have a majority for the most part untouched. However, a very important change has been made: regional health establishments are not themselves required to operate hospitals. All hospitals shall be separate health establishments. That's how the roles become clearer. But why wouldn't the Progress Party, together with the Right, negotiate a separate order organization? They themselves write in their comments that they want to legislate a separate ordering body, but they don't. Why do they not want to have common comments on the understanding of important paragraphs on separating parts or selling hospitals? Why don't they agree to give patients representation on hospital boards? I've been thinking a lot about this, but I realized that there's really no good answer to these questions. Why would Alvheim set aside important principles for separating the order and delivery roles and user representation? There is only one answer to that question, and that is not very good: it must have been Alvheim's personal desire to be as close as possible to the Workers' Party in this matter, so that he can say that it is primarily the Progress Party that supports the reform. The temptation was too great – the temptation to put the narrow party interest ahead of the patient’s interest. I say well. Alvheim may also say to him that the ordering body is now located in the regional health companies, but what does it help, when the issue is absent from the comments of the Workers' Party, and the case-rapporteur, of course, distanced himself from the fact that this was an appropriate form? So over to another chapter, namely the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party's common comments. How is it possible for two parties, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and so far also the Left, to turn their backs on the hospital policy of the Bondevik government? It's only been a year since Minister of Health Højbräten gave the law on state-owned hospital companies. Now you can get the impression that businesses are the new banner in the Christian People's Party. For the make-up of notes! Here, corporate organisation is stamped as a ‘market-oriented hospital’ where patients are considered as a ‘product’. They also say that this ‘contests the human and professional views of most people’ and ‘makes us face an alienation, which has already had an impact on the lack of integration and identification of professionals with the proposed health establishments’. It also states that ‘the hospital reform will strengthen the professional market economy environment of the healthcare sector at the expense of user interests and care and medical involvement’. It's not petty! It seems that the so-called extended centre of the house has passed by that patient organisations actually support the reform, both state responsibility and the corporate form of hospitals. The fact that some of the employees’ organisations with the Municipal Association at the head and some county councillors are calling for the fight against the reform can slowly be understood. But the fact that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are moving towards the user and patient interests and one-sided is making themselves the spokespersons of employees and the interests of local people elected by the people is alarming, to put it mildly. And if the president allows, I would say that for someone who studied at Blinderna, the University of Oslo in the 1960s and 1970s, it's almost like a 'déja vu' to read the notes from the so-called center. Argument and use of words are taken out of old ACP [[m-l]] With today's decision, responsibility and ownership of hospitals are finally placed with the State. And it is, as the rapporteur said, an upgrading of the public health system. And I would add: it's an upgrade of public funding and overall governance of the Norwegian health care system, and it's not possible to call 'privatisation', even if in the distant future you would find that all the hospitals were owned and run by other people than the state. As long as the State has overall financial responsibility and overall governance through priorities and functional distribution, it will be – and will remain – a public responsibility. That will be guaranteed by the Right. Nevertheless, today's reform, as we see it, is a good starting point. But there is a part that remains, for state ownership is no guarantee against deficits in hospitals and claims for back-appropriations during the year because hospitals, or now health businesses, believe the appropriations they have received are too small. The extra appropriations that will be given to the Rikshospitalet are just one example of that. I would like to say that when I am a member of State responsibility for the hospitals, it is despite and not because of the state government of the Rikshospital, not to mention the Radium Hospital, which soon coincides. Regional health enterprises will be able to compare the effectiveness and operation of hospitals to a greater extent than the county municipalities and impose requirements on them. A model separating the order and delivery roles, as suggested by the Right, would contribute to further clarity through better conditions to compete between hospitals. And not least, our proposal, where the ordering body has to agree with the hospitals in the negotiations between the hospitals and the ordering body, would help to clarify the services to be provided, and at what price. For some of what makes it so difficult today to say and be sure how far our appropriations go, is that no one really knows what the individual things cost. The small private and voluntary owned hospitals we have know more about it. The fact that they get through and get agreements will help to impose what will be absolutely essential to get a health care system that we know what costs, namely to get the individual services priced. I hope that actually it will be a majority for in this hall to get out. Then I will – a little surprising will some say – end with a good quote that I found in the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV's comments. That's what it says. ‘The proposal for a new Health Enterprises Act is somewhat different and far more than transferring the current ownership of hospitals by county municipalities to state ownership. It is a system shift in which the importance of ownership is greatly reduced by the fact that the current public-owned hospitals legally become independent enterprises’. Yes, that's exactly what it should be! That is why the right vote for the reform. I'm addressing the suggestions for further improvements that the Right has either alone or with others. As we have seen, some mistakes have occurred in some of these proposals. On page 33 of the setting I have found a bug that I would like to fix. There is no «not» here, and it may be fateful. In column one, third, it states: ‘These members refer to the majority now voting in favour of this...’ it shall read: ‘These members refer to the majority not now voting in favour of this...’ With these words, I recommend the majority voting on the points on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e279	Annelise Hoegh has taken up the suggestions she referred to. In a short time, two representatives have now used the concept of quotation marks. Quotes are a brilliant grammatical instrument. But the President will warn if it is believed that its use opens up the introduction of words or concepts in the parliamentary language that have so far been very narrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e284	Let me begin by giving my recognition to the rapporteur for a thorough examination of the proposal in the committee and for a thorough and good presentation of the matter in plenary here today. It could be tempting to use most of my speaking time to respond to it in part strong and pointless criticism of the hospital reform from external counterpowers and from the minority in the present position. But I'm just going to dismiss the general, RV politician and professor. Gilbert, a short visit. He claims, in his so - called counter-report, that the proposal for state hospitalization is a political coup, and that future patients with chronic disorders under state hospitalization face an uncertain and unpredictable time. Professor Gilbert probably has a good handle on what's in the term coup. He stands for a policy where armed revolution is also a tool for achieving political goals. For the rest of us, who work in democratic political parties, coup and revolution are totally unknown concepts. I personally want to characterize the so-called counter-communication as a match machine that improperly uses patients in a political game that creates fear and insecurity. In the present setting, the minority has focused strongly on the scarce time that has taken place both during the hearing of the reform and during the proceedings in Stortinget. I would like to remind the minority that it is not an unknown phenomenon for the social committee to have a short treatment period on major issues. As the Advance Party has seen it, it was necessary once the Workers' Party's proposal on state hospitalization had been launched, to get this reform in place as quickly as possible to avoid adverse effects in the vacuum that would occur if it took too long. Yes, I would say it so strongly that it was imperative to have a very rapid procedure when the first position had been taken by the Government and one could expect the reform to have a majority in the Stortinget. Odelstinget today writes health policy history of format. Today, 6 June 2001, Norway is being brought together as a health country. It was therefore to take almost 1200 years from Norway to form one kingdom in the battle of Hafrsfjord to the current Minister of Health Tore Tønne to bring Norway together to form one health country. Congratulations! For the Advancement Party and me personally, this is a joyous day, and the same will be the case for future patients in the specialist health service. Today, the Progress Party will be able to see through to the fact that the main health policy issue has been on its agenda since it was founded in 1973. From the time the reform proposal came to Stortinget, it has been an overall objective of the Progress Party Group to ensure that the reform was adopted and that state hospital operations came on the rails from 1 January 2002. It is also nice to note that during the committee discussion of the reform proposal, the Progress Party has had a significant influence on the current outcome of the suspension. In this setting, the Progress Party has had an impact on perhaps the most important change in principle in relation to the basis of the proposition, namely separating the order role from the execution role of the new business models. This has been done by a change in Sections 1, 2 and 9, where it is now stated in the law that regional health enterprises are to set up health enterprises, i.e. producer units, and that regional health enterprises themselves are not to provide health services, as originally foreseen. The Progress Party has also had an impact on an extended system and administrative audit by the National Audit Office, which was completely required in our view. And finally, we have been amended by the law to draw up individual treatment and care plans for patients, a task that was intended for the regional health company, but which now naturally remains in the healthcare companies themselves. These are other important areas, which the representative Annelise Höegh has also been involved in, where it might have been interesting to get the change, but this is what we achieved in the negotiations with the Workers' Party. In particular, I would like to highlight the ban on selling and separating units in the hospitals that provide specialist health services. This ban may inhibit rationally effective hospital operations in the future, which I think patients would have benefited from. However, this is a question that we will come back to on a later occasion. I have with amazement registered, even here today, the criticism that has been raised against the Progress Party and me personally for not having been tough enough in the negotiations with the Workers' Party. And I am tempted to ask questions to the Right and the representative Annelise Höegh: What has the Right been caused by changes in the original proposition, in addition to the fact that the Right has fallen on the result that the Progress Party negotiated? As I said earlier, the Progress Party took the position quite early that it was the general aim of the party to have the hospital reform on the rails from 1 January 2002, and we were not prepared to create crisis situations where one could risk having the Workers' Party negotiating with the Centre Parties for an adapted reform that the Centre Parties could accept, but which would result much worse than the present one. As I see it, the present setting is only a rough framework of principle for state hospital operations in the future, and it will be ample and good opportunity to come back to many different questions in the future to get the most effective state hospital operations. With state-wide responsibility for public hospital operations in the country, we will be able to achieve far more than so far the health policy objectives set out in the National Health Plan, namely equivalent treatment provision across the country irrespective of residence and personal economy. These are objectives that it has not been possible to achieve through a decentralised responsibility for hospital services with 19 different health care providers. Another significant change that is now taking place under state ownership and driving responsibility is that we now end the disclaimer and blackmail that has been carried out between the administrative bodies, county councils and the state, where county municipalities have largely used long waiting lists as a means of pressuring to add more resources. In this context, I would like to stress strongly the change that is now taking place in relation to the distribution of responsibilities. In the past, any question from the members of the Social Committee about unacceptable conditions in county hospital operations was answered by various health ministers that this could not interfere with the Minister of Health, because this was a municipal responsibility – and no longer did one ever come. The new thing that I see as extremely important is that the Minister of Health is now given personal responsibility in relation to the Storting, and must be able to answer and take the criticism that is coming, and will have to do something about the criticism directly against the representatives of the Storting from this pulpit. State hospital operations organised as a health business with a professional non-party board of directors will also, at my discretion, make it much easier to carry out the necessary internal reorganisation in each hospital in order to make both management and professional staff more responsible in relation to patient treatment. The review of the internal organisation of the individual health business may be painful enough for too many professionals, but it is a process that, at my discretion, needs to be carried out as quickly as possible in order to optimise the use of resources for patient treatment. In organising hospitals in health enterprises and as independent legal entities, it will be easier to assume responsibility for the management and administration of enterprises in a much better way than for the administrative model we have had of county operations. The Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that the future financing mechanism has not been explored and amended in the proposal. The only thing on the agenda is that the financial instruments are to continue broadly as they are today, and that input-based funding is still to be paid to regional health enterprises, formerly county municipalities. The last thing, in my opinion, violates the principle of hospital discharge and responsibilities in individual companies. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to warn the Minister of Health not to go along with it when the boards of regional health companies are to be appointed. I would also strongly warn against building too strong a bureaucracy around and within regional health businesses – a bureaucracy that may also be recruited from county health centres. I have the same concern in relation to the proposal to set up a regional advisory body, which I cannot see there should be any need for – a body that, as far as I know, is preferably made up of politicians in county municipalities. I have no faith that this body will have any function of a positive nature. I am aware that patient organisations are dissatisfied that they do not receive a statutory right to be represented on the board of health companies. I was myself initially concerned about this, but at closer inspection this is not compatible with the professional non-party board, which is now posted in relation to health companies. The fact that the board is not composed of parties means that the individual board members only represent themselves and not special interests. However, according to the proposal, it is assumed that the members of the board shall be persons with broad competence in management and economics and user competence. In my opinion, there is nothing wrong with the fact that a member of the board who is a member of a patient organisation and also has the other necessary characteristics can be elected to a board of directors. A representative of the Governing Board who was to represent special interests could, as previously said, continue to be a hostage in a non-party board. User interests have been significantly strengthened in recent years in the field of health legislation, in particular I would like to point out the right law, and this must also be fully taken into account by a corporate governance. Furthermore, the proposition also underlines in particular the obligations of healthcare companies to consult and inform patient and user organisations when planning and operating. Finally, I would like to express my great disappointment at the fact that the dental and care services did not now come with the transition from county council to state hospital operations. For both of these public services, we can risk very unfortunate effects of the vacuum that both of these services will now have to be in the first year. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Government is now considering whether to shift the responsibility for treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts from social law to health legislation. I've fought for this for years. I have noticed that the minority in its comments justifies its opposition to the state-owned business model with a lack of popular governance, and that big words are being used, such as ‘democratic deficit’. Yes, you can even say that: ‘individuals, stakeholder organisations and trade unions lose the opportunity to place local politicians in charge of the health service’. I could be tempted to ask the minority: has it ever happened that county politicians have been held responsible for all the misery we have experienced in public health for the past 25 years? I haven't registered it. Have these parties ever called for anyone to be held responsible during the county hospital operation? For the individual patient, I don't think it matters who owns and operates the individual hospital, only patients get good treatment at the right time without unnecessary waiting. Nor do I believe that the individual patient is either now or in the future particularly concerned with the so-called democratic deficit – a concept that was launched by the Central Party in the EU debate. This is – I don't know if I can use the word, but I dare anyway – with respect to reporting flakes. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. As stated in the vote, after the fall of our own proposal and proposal that we agree with others, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e341	The representative Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. There's a very fresh language usage here today. I also don't think 'bottles' are among the words we're going to use from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e346	Today is a great day for those who want to privatize one of the most important welfare assets in our society, the hospital treatment. Today, the Workers' Party, or more precisely the Workers' Party's leadership, gets what they think they want. They call it a health reform, they call it a hospital reform – honorary. Words can be used for so many things, and in this case, word usage may be more a cover-up than a clarification of the process contained in today's legislative proposals. Many believe that today we have state hospitals. It's a truth with certain modifications. At the same time as the State takes over as its owner, the State grants ownership from itself to independent enterprises, without regional or local political anchoring. The result will then be hospitalized as health stores. There is a great danger that the salary, not the patient, will be seen in the high seat. Health policy may no longer be an objective; it may be a means of spending money to keep the budget. Patients can then become a potential source of income, employ market mechanisms in input-driven financing and the DRG system. Other patients with complex and complex diagnostics that should experience improvements in relation to today's situation may encounter closed doors. They fall out of priority because of demands for pay and budgetary balance. This is of course a worst case description, but as a famous lady has said before me: we know the loop at the time. There shall be a professional board, the local councils shall have only one advisory function. The user groups have lost their important channels of influence, local people are devoid of transparency and responsibility for the health of the population and for their needs for treatment. Health tasks are to a large extent to be distributed according to the principle of supply and competition – I quote from Ot.prp. No 66, cap. 4.19.3: «Regional health establishments will be able to choose, as contracting entities, whether the acquisition is to take place through competitive tendering or through negotiation.» That's all cause for concern. There is every reason to expect that in a short time, perhaps only a few years, posts in this room will be held where one demands additional professionalization of the government – a new honor for those who want to privatize our welfare services. At that time, financial management has not become like the plural set up today. Then they will demand the same batch of forces on the hospital board that can do this with financial management. Then we need to get private forces in; they have a completely different competence, maybe politicians from the Progress Party, the Right and the Labour Party will claim. Then we only need one little change in the law that is signed today, but only a small change in the first pass. Sickhouses are partially privatized – and of course under the magical limit of 50 pst. But 50 pst. partnership will not be enough for the most privatization hungry either. By one decision, the state responsibility for hospital operations and the specialist services can then be privatised. That's not enough -- even a number of debates about state ownership, where the state is referred to as a controversial owner that the professional board members would prefer to avoid. The government's exemption is one of the most important principles of this health reform, which has been repeated several times by Minister of Health Tore Tønne. A local democracy that may seem considerate will be gone. The torch train in Egersund and Narvik no longer becomes visible or so annoying. The rapporteur may go to bed without concern; she cannot do so much from time to time in the event of local hospital closure. Voluntary enterprises have slightly different results to show when it applies to services for people, especially in the districts. It is a sobering thought that, right now, the municipal committee is giving a big boost to regional and regional policy, while the law on health care, with the consequences it can have for the districts, is being established in Odelstinget. I refer to what happened in the NSB and Post after they became a legally independent special-law company in 1996. Long-term professional thinking and societal considerations have meant that short-term action is needed for better 'ignition'. In the first round, many better mail services were given. In these days, it is reported that the follow-up to Post in Store is a restriction of the service supply – but it does not mean a particularly high level of self-criticism from those who were most eager to get this model. The centre party is not satisfied with today's offer in Health-Noreg. Hospitals need a better organization internally. There is also a need for more interaction between hospitals. A review of the work to be done in the hospital wards so that the right person is in the right place is absolutely necessary. The overall competence needs to be better used than today. Adequate support staff must be provided so that both doctors, nurses, caregivers and caregivers are more able to participate directly in patient treatment and are not burdened with additional functions with objectives other than patient care. And then you'll probably need more resources, there can't be any doubt about it. It seems to me that the patient treatment itself has been disregarded in this matter. It does not seem to be closer to discussion, nor does any other country's animal-breeding experience. The best thing to compare with is the model of hospitalization introduced by New Zealand in 1993. That reform, it is said, has provided more expensive and poorer health services, and the last issue of the British Medical Journal says that New Zealand is now trying to set the time back before 1993. In the Central Party we wonder that the Government is moving forward so quickly in this matter, that the Government will not take the time for a thorough public debate. Why not discuss the experience of other countries such as England, New Zealand, Sweden or Spain when the Health Care Act means such major changes to our health care system, which is being lifted by one decision today by local and regional policy anchoring? On closer reflection, we see that it is not strange that the Government is well aware of the rapid pace in this matter. A discussion, more time for reflection, and a broader democratic process would certainly put some heads in the wheels of the Government. Solid organisations, which are politically close to the Government, have tried by all means to slow down the pace and warn of a danger signal for the future. But they've met deaf ears. That the Advance Party and the Right are enjoying themselves today, no one is wondering. They have won an ideological saying about the Workers' Party today. We are constantly reminded that ideologies are dead, but market ideology seems to be living and breathing today as well. Health services are not like other goods. It has not been established that the governance principle that operates in other areas will work in the health sector. It is quite certain that the business economy principle will not provide more health for the money. The new honors now are ordering role and performing role. Common characteristics of the models are closed business patterns, such as health professionals being adopted today, increasing part of price financing, increasing red tape, increasing waiting lists and privatisation – first of support functions and less central services, then of care and after each of complex medical services – increasing barriers for those with complicated or high care needs, faster printing and greater burden on the first-line service, increasing pressure on staff, fewer care options, increasing user pay. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e383	I'll try to stick to courteous speech here from the pulpit today, although it might be tempting to do something else. The primary position of SV is that county municipalities continue to operate hospitals. We recognise, however, that there is a majority in the Storting that is in favour of state acquisition. SV has therefore wanted to influence the process in the most constructive way possible and to make it visible that choices can be made, so that when the State takes over, a real state influence on the operation of hospitals. In fact, the dilemma with the government's health reform is, in the SV's view, that public governance is being weakened. The control of decisions to be taken by elected people is weakened, the influence of users is weakened, and the overall objectives of a comprehensive healthcare system are also weakened. What we also record is that this is happening at a pace that makes it very difficult for different organisations and businesses to get involved in the intention of the reform and also to be able to influence it in a direction that they would see fit. This is why SV has supported a proposal that the Social Committee has examined, and which was also agreed by the inter-parties, that the whole reform proposal should have been sent back to the Government and on a new consultation round, and that it should only have been presented in the new enlargement after the elections. Unfortunately, there was no majority for it, and it means that you get a treatment of the law in the form it exists from the Government. Based on that and on all the weaknesses in the legislative proposal, SV has sought to draw up its own legislative proposal to make it visible that there are other choices – choices in the direction of a management model rather than a business model. We thus promote amended legislative proposals to most of the paragraphs, and where we have kept the paragraphs unchanged, we have made it based on the assumption of decisions where we want it to be amended, so that everything must be seen together. You cannot set this paragraph in relation to the SV's proposal. A good illustration of how fast this is going, and how little opportunities there are to look at the consequences of the legislative proposal and also the consequences of the amended legislative proposal, is that when SV asks for a technical review and assistance from the ministry in relation to what we are proposing, it is not possible simply because there is a time lag around it. The government expressed in its reply letter dated 28 May that such work would be relatively extensive and time consuming. Of course, we can confirm that, and we have also said that all along: such work is necessarily extensive and time consuming. And of course, that's exactly why you shouldn't do it at the speed set by the government here. SV notes that, in parallel with changing the ownership of hospitals at the pace of the process, and with all the concerns on which it is based, the Government also proposes to reorganise the government, with a reduction from eleven to three health wards, and without even bringing the matter before the relevant committee, without even being a consultative body when it is dealt with by the Committee on Finance, and doing so as a bit of a bit in relation to the revised national budget. It is also a symptom of the kind of policies and policies of change on which the Workers' Party has expressed itself in the area of health. What we see is that the Progress Party is the main supporter of health reform. It will not surprise me and SV about the changes that will now be made to the health statuses, but the Stortinget will have time to discuss them in detail, and with the support of the Progress Party, without allowing users to be taken on board, without including employees on advice, without getting consultations on the technical committee – at all without the possibility of having a decent impact on the outcome of something that could become much better. Hospital reform follows in a track where a pattern emerges. In the past, we have seen that the postal services, the telecommunications services and Statoil have increasingly been disconnected from government governance towards the stock market. The postal and telecommunications services were formerly important support functions and important infrastructure measures in local communities, both for housing and for supporting other jobs, and could therefore not be considered solely on the basis of low profitability principles. So you can see that there's a change in the way you think about profitability. What you can see in the outlines of the hospital reform is exactly the same. That is why, as SV sees it, this reform is not primarily a reform in which the State assumes responsibility, but it is a reform in which public responsibility is reduced. The shift in the health policy of the Workers' Party is made clear when one sees in the suspension both what the Party provides its support, to whom they draw the support, and not least what one sees that the Workers' Party cannot go into support. Incredibly, I would say – and I don't think that is unparliamentary – the Workers' Party is moving towards a public coordination and dissemination centre for the dissemination of free treatment capacity at hospitals. Instead, the distribution is now based on a private profit-based distribution under the direction of GetMedic. And we have heard that the Minister of Health is unable to decide whether it is objectionable or not – you should look at that for a moment. So first you get a free hospital choice in this country, where people have to be able to choose between different hospitals without having a public advisory body set up, and then you have to – incredibly, and under the direction of the Workers' Party – be almost able to believe with a shoulder stretch that this is okay, people get paid for that service if they are to have that advice, and initially we are not going to take any initiative that the public is going to do that kind of service. That says a lot. Thus, the Workers' Party does not support the proposal for the development of a common employer policy to recruit and maintain public health labour. That says a lot. The Labour Party is moving towards a thorough, independent evaluation of the hospital reform once the reform has been in operation for two years. That says a lot. The working party is in favour of the users being represented in the boards. That's what the Progress Party does, which John I. Alvheim previously described as a loss over TV 2. It is a loss that can easily be corrected today, if John I. Alvheim seriously believes that it was a loss, but I understand that he has run version 2 here today, and perhaps will take version 3 later today in this room. But it is clear that on the basis of the fact that the Progress Party has had such a high profile of user involvement, and that users need to be consulted, it gives cause for concern also in the case of the Progress Party and their actual health policy, when not even the users want to be involved in the governance. S.V. accepts, as I have said, that a majority want state ownership of hospitals, even though we initially disagree with that. But we want to make clear premises for the acquisition. We want real popular control of the specialist health service. This can be achieved by giving the Storting a key role in the future operation of hospitals and the other specialist health services. Thus, the SV proposes a national health plan to specify hospital operations, both the type of medical treatment to be carried out by the public, how medical treatment should be prioritised, how the funding of hospital operations should be and how it should be linked in individual health regions to the different types of activities and patient treatment. We also want the Storting to adopt quality standards in relation to hospital treatment, including accepted waiting time. We want the number of hospitals and their location to be determined by the Stortinget, and we want to secure a financial framework for research and education in the specialist health service under the direction of the Stortinget. By putting so sharp a leadership on the part of Stortinget under popular control, we believe in SV that greater freedom can also be given to the different regional enterprises and hospitals that will be under them, among other things. borrowing, for the purpose of budgetary responsibility, to carry out at all events the activities for which the Storting has determined the terms of reference. On the basis of the overall objective, SV has promoted its own legislative proposal. We underline both through Section 1 and the action that the national health plan will be, that this should be a management model, not a business model, as models have been seen for county and municipal enterprises. We also stress the need for comprehensive user representation and, in order to remove any confusion, have also made an amendment today which clearly states that we should also have users in subsidiaries, not only in regional enterprises. We have stressed in the proposal for Section 32 that the Storting must be involved and make the decision if it is about the closure, relocation or sale of hospital activities, with very strong leads for it. We agree that the Riksrevision should have a stronger control over the companies than was provided for in the original proposal, and therefore supports the proposal for a new section 46. We also believe that the rights of county councils should be strengthened or – if they no longer exist – of the municipalities where the different hospitals are located, if the state does not use them for the intended purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e409	The President is a little uncertain about whether any proposal was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e412	I will address the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e417	Olav Gunnar Ballo has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e420	As you know, the Left is not represented in the Social Committee, and we have therefore had no opportunity to express our views through comments. The position of the left is, for the most part, consistent with that of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party – and in this case for a large part also SVs. The proposals of these parties will be supported by the Left. The left has long been concerned with modernising and simplifying the public sector, so that it is less used in bureaucracy and forms fields and more in providing good services to people. It seems to be also the intention of the Workers' Party and the right-hand side. What is frightening about the modernisation of these parties is that it almost always leads to centralisation of jobs, power and competences. The standard recipe seems to be to gather the greatest possible power in the least possible hands, organised as far away as possible from those who are to use public services. Law on health enterprises, which is being treated today, is rightly referred to by many as a matter of commercialisation of hospitals. This matter is viewed and characterised, also by the Minister of Health, as one of the greatest reforms since Harald Haarfrage's time. It concerns the most important part of our whole welfare society, it concerns us all – as patients and relatives – it concerns 100,000 workers, it concerns an annual budget of DKK 35 billion, it concerns the abolition of the most important part of the local government over 160 years and is the largest centralisation of political power in our history. This is a very big thing, with unpleasant consequences. The Minister of Health has not been able to provide any evidence that his way of organising the hospital system is better for patients and society than the way that has grown up until now in our country and in our neighbouring countries, and that has brought the Nordic countries health services to the forefront. The main question is: Is the state a good driver? There are no critical issues at all in the consultation document on state-owned operations; there is no evidence of what will be concretely different and better in state-run operations. What is being presented is pure vision and reminds us of the undocumented belief in state affairs that many had 50 years ago. My claim is that the state is largely a poorer driver of welfare production than municipalities and counties. In no country has state activity been particularly successful. It is a major mistake to transfer the hospitals to the state. This will lead to a worse and more expensive specialist health service. Then someone thinks there's going to be more money when the government takes over. There is no reason to believe that total public consumption can be increased as a result of this reform. If this is to happen, it must be at the expense of funds for, for example: road, aviation, NSB, education, defence, etc. There are internal priorities that need to be made. So it's said that the savings are going to come about by making state operations more efficient hospital operations. There is no single example where the first dollar should be saved in that context. I fear that state-run specialist health services will be more expensive than state-run operations. The father is that we get less health for every penny and more bureaucracy. It is in individual departments and in individual hospitals that the meeting with the patient takes place. That's where the medical and nursing skills exist. It's nice to notice that small hospitals come out well in this context. The left is afraid that too much distance between central management and the individual hospital department will lead to inexhaustible conditions and a lack of closeness and good contact. For the Left, people's proximity to the management of welfare services is a value choice, not a technical question. For the Left, a decentralised hospital structure is important, where power and responsibility lie locally. The local public engagement has been crucial for the emergence of our hospital system. And a real popular government with closeness to the users is still a good foundation to build on. So my final call is that when, according to the majority decision, settlement is to be done to the county councils, it has to be done in a neat and good way, where the county council interests are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e443	The case of Odelstinget now deals with, differs from most other cases not only because of its size, but also because of its complexity and consequences. The case covers the entire specialist healthcare service in Norway, with a hundred large and small units, about 100000 employees and cooperation relations with the entire other health and social sector. It intervenes and changes the conditions for the governance and management of the largest and most complex organisations we have in the Norwegian community – organisations characterised by a demanding interaction between different professions and between people and technology – which will provide some of the most important and advanced services to the entire population. The case will have immediate and long-term consequences for responsibilities and responsibilities, for the roles of different actors, and for the possibilities for further development of one of the most important sectors of society. All in all, it is thus very important for all patients and potential patients, i.e. for the whole population, who shall have equivalent access to good health care whenever they need it, irrespective of age, sex, economics, ethnicity, residence, etc. It's this whole thing is about. However, although the case is very extensive, it is of course not comprehensive in the sense that it takes into account absolutely everything that needs to be changed and improved in the Norwegian health system. Some have tried to make a point of this by identifying all the necessary measures that have not been addressed in the proposed proposal. It's also the same thing that at the same time claims that the proposition is far too extensive and complicated. As obviously as such a case cannot cover everything in absolute terms, it is that a decision to change ownership and organisational relationships will not lead to an immediate solution to all problems in the sector. It's been stressed all along. However, from some quarters, it is almost as an appeal against the proposal. One might be tempted to ask what kind of decision it is that should have such an effect. However, the fact that one cannot refer to immediate solutions to all problems cannot be an argument for not implementing any measures. The proposed ownership and organisational reform should, first and foremost, establish better conditions for our society to meet the challenges and thus better address the problems that characterise the health and hospital sector. If I were to bring forward some issues that are of major importance to these assumptions, I would first point out the clarification of the responsibilities of the hospital sector. The most immediate effect of this case is that this responsibility is brought together at the hands of the State, represented by the Minister of Health, and be subject to democratic control of the Grand Duchy. All experience shows that the fragmentation of responsibilities is ambiguity about responsibilities and provides an opportunity to shift responsibilities between different actors. This has been a review problem in the hospital sector, where ownership is divided into 19 different counties as well as the state, and is also divided in an artificial and complex way between the responsibility for the ownership decisions themselves and the responsibility for the financing. This is going to end now. I have recorded that the middle parties and SV in their remark say that the Stortinget now ‘will have to deal with the Minister of Health’ in all matters under political control. Yeah, that's kind of the point. Who else would the Storting really deal with in such matters? The other aspect I would like to highlight is that this ownership and organisational reform involves much better conditions for national coordination, for example. of acquisitions, investments and use of resources. As a result, there are also opportunities to offset the large and sometimes unacceptable differences in treatment provision in the country, for example. between parts of the country, even between hospitals in the same part of the country and health region, better. I'm not saying that this will happen by itself, almost automatically by the law decision, but the assumptions are established. Once again, I would like to stress that it becomes quite clear who is responsible for this happening. The unfortunate thing has been that these large differences have been passed over for a long time, despite the objective of equivalence in the offers and without anyone being able to be held responsible. The improved conditions for coordination will also provide the prerequisites for better use of resources in the sector. I have noticed that some see efficient use of resources in this sector as an expression of ‘business economic thinking’ and ‘market liberalisation’. I think it is quite incredible and, in my view, shows that they do not want to deal with efficient resource use or with those concepts, for example. Business economy, which we use in this context. The representative of Melting Group Kleppa recently stated that words can be used in so many ways. That's right, I think she herself demonstrated it in a wonderful way. We are at the top of the world in using resources in the Norwegian health sector. So should we. But we should also have the ambition to be at the forefront of getting the most out of these resources. Something else is a waste of community resources. I would refer to that as directly unethical. But get out in terms of what? Of course, not in the form of a surplus of distribution to the owners, as the ratio will be and shall be within business-economy thinking. No, get it out in terms of more, better, more equivalent, good quality services for the population. The law provides that the country of ownership is to organise its ownership of regional health establishments and health establishments. This is important for many reasons, including: because it gives a clear and orderly division of roles between owner and ownership, board and board of directors and management and management responsibilities. It also provides clear procedures and rules of play for the important interaction between them. When emphasis is also placed on the management and organisation of hospitals, I believe that this role-sharing and understanding of roles should also be given far greater importance than what has been the possibility and tradition of in administration. Norwegian government is very good at managing, but I think most people will agree that the activities carried out in hospitals are not a government, and therefore should not be organised like that. This is not the same thing as exemption. I noticed that the representative Kleppa demonstrated the use of words by claiming that I have repeatedly pointed out that it is exemption from administration that is important. I don't know where she got it from. I never use that term. I don't think she'll find it in the proposition that's presented either. I have read the comments that have also come from the middle parties and SV in this case. I think they're pretty strong in describing the Black Death that will affect countries and people if a change like what is proposed here is implemented. I don't take the time to go into it, but I think it's pretty strong when you even draw someone else's human vision into something that's behind a proposal to organize this way. I'm not going to draw the comparisons of Harald Hair Fairer any longer than what's done here before. Just one thing: I think in such a situation he would not have withdrawn and asked for further investigations and hearings before he had gone on!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e485	I notice that the Minister of Health also uses the concept of disclaimer as the most important concept to describe the Norwegian health care system. I think that is wrong. Then he says that the Storting must deal with the Minister of Health. Of course we will. The problem is that if this reform is to be carried out, issues that are now being dealt with politically in the counties and health regions must also be brought before the Grand Duchy if they are to have any political treatment. I would argue that Stortinget is not suitable for this, and hardly has the capacity to do so. I want to ask the Minister of Health two questions, on which the Labour Party in the vote does not seem to have any meaning. Perhaps the Council of State has a point of view. The minority is concerned about the private enterprises that are currently part of the public health service and are now afraid of the future in the context of the state takeover. The minority writes that they will stress the importance of making agreements with these institutions, so that they continue to be part of the service provision. This is not clear from the proposition, and I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is sure that these will still be part of this offer. Then there is a proposal from the minority on a public centre for coordination and dissemination of free treatment capacity, which provides free communication of information on treatment capacity. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have made an opposite proposal, in which a request the Government agrees with GetMedic or other private equivalent information systems. The working party does not have an opinion about this in the setting. Do the councils have an opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e498	With regard to the first question raised by Mr Næss, I can at once rest assured that the undertakings set up here will enter into, first of all, the established agreements with such private health institutions, and new agreements will also be concluded where appropriate to promote the overall health policy objectives, regardless of whether the current owners have had such agreements or not. I already know that there are several people who have missed such agreements and who have asked for them to get them. I can't wait to mention that most of the private actors here referred to have chosen to organize their businesses in companies, without me thinking that for that reason there is any reason to doubt their human vision. So we don't want any concerns about concluding such agreements with the entities that the government is now establishing. With regard to the issue of organising the information activities of the population on the services provided by individual hospitals, in order to support the law and the objective of free hospital choice, there is probably a reason why it is not specified in this proposition, as far as it does not address that issue. But I can also say that, first of all, there is no doubt, to the extent that my attitude has been questioned, that it is a public responsibility to ensure that there is satisfactory information about this. The way in which public authorities will organise that responsibility in the future must be a basis for discussion and opportunity to discuss and investigate further. We are now establishing the necessary information systems. In this context, it must also be possible to cooperate fully with private operators in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e508	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good report, and stress that the Right and Workers' Party agree that it is an important aspect of this reform to clarify responsibilities, to place responsibility at the level of dumping and government, and to have a clear division of roles between health businesses, regional health businesses and governments and large-scale projects. That is why hospitals are now becoming own enterprises, which are to be run professionally within the economic and health policy framework such as accumulation and government withdrawal. As I was in my post, we believe from the Right that the Workers' Party has been under-represented in the responsibility of the political authorities to ensure that the population has access to necessary and qualitatively good health services at the right price, and that the resources are used effectively in this way. It is precisely this attention to the obligation to ensure that the Right has proposed a separate ordering body to act orderly and to have the role of acting on behalf of the State that it is also to be able to behave neatly and unhindered against the few and small private contributions that exist. What is the reason of the Workers' Party for rejecting this? In order to provide health services to the population, it is a task to be done, regardless of whether it is in the enterprise or it is in a regional central government. So some major bureaucracy, as the rapporteur was about to say, needs to be far from being. No one wants it, least of all we want it. But when the Workers' Party places this responsibility on those enterprises, is there still a slight reluctance on the part of the Minister for Health against the direct political responsibility for this? Finally, what view does the Minister for Health have of the opinion of the Progress Party, namely that the ordering body is now located in regional health businesses? Is this a reasonable understanding of the majority position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e517	It is also my understanding of what is presented in the proposal and in the position that it ensures responsibility, the ordering function to which the representative Høegh refers, has been assigned to regional health companies. In this role, however, regional health enterprises are directly subject to the owner of the health minister, who will again be responsible to Stortinget. I believe that when it comes to ensuring that the entire population has equal access to good health care across the country, it is, when it comes to the overall political responsibility for it, a central responsibility that the Minister of Health must bear, and that the Storting must be tested at all times. That is why I think it is the right political level when it is organised in this way. Then you can say: why can't you organise it in a separate body and a management body, which is proposed by the Right? I don't want to say that that's not possible, but I think that this organization first establishes a distinction between the regional health company that orders and suppliers, whether they're healthcare companies or for example. other healthcare providers. Secondly, I believe that the experience from countries that have been referred to earlier also, which have established a clearer distinction than this, or at least a greater distinction than this is proposed, does not allow time to go that way at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e529	In some articles here today, one of the main points of this case has been user representation in the individual boards. And then I would also like to read a little from the comments of the adjustment to Section 21 of the Board's composition, etc., where the Right, Advance Party and Workers' Party say: ‘The majority would stress the importance of taking user interests into account in the boards.’ That's what that paragraph says. And in connection with § 36, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have the following remark: ‘The majority expect health enterprise boards and regional governments to establish formalised contacts with representatives of patients and users.’ As far as I can understand, it must be that it is now necessary to ensure that user interests are heard in these matters. One must make sure that they are given their message and that one listens to that message. And at the same time, when you look at how governments should be put together, there's nothing wrong with the fact that people who are also users of the health system can sit on boards – rather on the contrary, because it's part of the competence that lies there – not that, in the form of law, organisations are given the right to sit on boards, but it's their own characteristics that have to be decisive for a possible steering position. My question to the Minister of Health is: can the Minister of Health confirm that the impression I have of what is here is correct? And in addition, will the Minister of Health guarantee what these remarks say, that the interests of user representatives and user groups will be safeguarded with this proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e548	I can confirm what the representative here asks me to confirm, as regards the impression of what is behind the wording to which he referred. The user interests and user competence, I would say, are very important in terms of the future governance of the entities and businesses concerned. For this reason, we also attach great importance to the legislative establishment of systems for the collection of user views by enterprises on all issues related to the development of health services in the areas for which they are responsible. I can guarantee that will happen, and – once again – it will also be the responsibility of the Minister of Health to ensure that it does. When it comes to representation in the boards, it is also right that there is of course no obstacle to – on the contrary, I would say – that there are people in the boards who have experience and competence from a user point of view. It is important to have the breadth and breadth of competence of the controllers that are established, and I also want to feel a responsibility to ensure that there is competence that includes user competence. But something else is to go to a situation where persons are members of the board, while at the same time representing interests or interests other than those they are intended to represent by appointment, namely, by their own competence to represent, as the foremost trustees, the interests of the entity and the objectives that the owner has drawn to the business. It's a proper composite board, as we see it, it shouldn't be a party structure or represent someone else in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e555	In St.meld. No 31, which relates to the task-sharing selection and the distribution of responsibilities between the state, the municipality and the county, and also in the municipal proposition, the Government emphasises the intrinsic value of the ability of the individual citizen to influence the tenets supply. An important grip there is, according to the Order, that decisions should be taken as close to the user as possible. In this case, the Government appears to be going the opposite way, when the organisation becomes so that it is through the five regional undertakings that the decisions are to be taken. I register what the Minister of Health is now saying when it relates to user groups and influence. I think he himself, when he confirms how the board should be composed, tells us that users will experience a significant change. The first group of users here felt that there was no such thing as a good deal about the forwarding process; they were ignored in the hearing process. I want to take an example from my own country, the revenants, which is a large group of chroniclers. Today, they have a good dialogue in relation to their health selection. They have local people to stick to. Of course, when the county cannot meet all their wishes, it is primarily because the county cannot affect its own income. But today they have a good dialogue. Every four years, they can replace the local populaces who take on the priorities of Rogaland. So, according to Tore Tønne's model, users now have to stick to a region company in Bergen where they don't have direct representation. Should there be a deterioration and not an improvement in the way users react?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e566	Firstly, I have to distance myself from the claim that the user organisations have been translated into the consultation process. This has been a very extensive consultation. I don't know about other issues in the health and social sector that have had a wider consultation process than it is here. I have gone through what has been done also under former health ministers and social ministers in important matters, and in no way can I accept a claim that user organisations have not been heard about the preparation of the legislative proposal that is currently under consideration. Nor can I accept that it is from a situation where there is no provision for the rights of users and user organisations to a situation where it is legislated to establish a system for the regular collection of user views on issues related to the development of health services in the areas where they are, in some way can be presented as a worsening of the situation. But again, this is a question that the representative has raised earlier: the use of words may be so often. I may be tempted to ask a question back. In the current ownership system, in some cases, but only in some cases, hospital boards are established. It might be interesting to hear if the representative Kleppa could mention some examples of the appointment of representatives of the user institutions in these boards. Could she at least mention one example?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e575	I noticed that the Council of State used clips and the glue technique to make the minority's remarks appear to be as reflective as possible, instead of going into the very concrete objections that he actually made. I stress that it should be important to get people in place, precisely because people now have a free hospital choice, and because they are facing major changes. Then I record time and time again that when the Council of State comes to it, he is fairly unprecise – or the production you get is that if it's private that runs it, he doesn't see the big concerns about it. I have previously registered that the Council of State e.g. in the case of sources of funding for future hospital operations, do not have large counter-conceptions about partial advertising funding — as is now the case at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. I wish that the Council of State had a much higher level of precision related to what he wants with the state hospital operation, instead of trying to make comments and criticisms and the approach that you now have, to a kind of ridiculous comment that goes on human vision. I am recording that the Rikshospital this year comes out with a deficit that they themselves claim to be SEK 270 million. kr. And I record that at the Rikshospital – which is therefore a state hospital, and has been a state hospital for as long as I have been aware that there has been a hospital called the Rikshospital – where the Council of State already has powers to do much about the operation, one can see that only one such simple thing, to mention an example, such as the transsexuals, who, after demanding treatment from the Stortinget for over a year, have not yet received it. Can the Council of State specifically explain why what we have today from state hospitals, with the Rikshospitalet as a good example, does not allow the Council of State to intervene and get the decision of Stortinge to have a treatment offer for the transsexuals — as a good example of the consequences of state hospitalization?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e584	The President would point out that, in the President's view, the concept of 'laughing remarks' is moving on the edge of parliamentary expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e587	I am trying, unlike the representative of Ballo, to deal with what this matter is about. So it's an attitude of the social committee on health business law, etc. I have not intended to go into the situation of the transsexuals at the Rikshospital, or, for that matter, different imaginable arrangements to exercise public responsibility for providing the population with good and correct information about the services offered by the various hospitals in the public health sector. I would like to go through the comments that the representative Ballo thought I had just cut and glued from, but they are so extensive that it would blow up all the speaking time if one were to do it completely. I also do not want any ridicule – excuse the expression – of what is said here in a general remark, when I add this. It is, in essence, also well summed up in the comment itself, where it is clear – clearly in contrast to the proposal made by the Government and for which there is a majority: ‘These members believe that the health system is best based on a spirit of solidarity.’ I have to shoot in: it means the undersigned too. You point out what will happen to us if we go into this. It will be – now I refer a little quickly again, it's a little cut and glue, it has to be – a transition to market solutions, it will lead to greater inequalities, less cooperation, increased expenditure, more administration, lower priority, worse conditions and stronger discontent. I wondered for a while if anything was left out here, but I have come to the conclusion that most that can happen of misery, now is with. It was up to this that I would also say: one thing is to present such a day of judgment, but I honestly think it becomes strong when one also suggests that it is the human view of the different thinking that is at the root of this, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e603	This is a major issue – changing ownership of our hospitals and the organisational changes that result from it. However, the crucial thing in my view is not ownership, but how we can give patients what they are entitled to offer. For the patient, it really doesn't matter whether it's state, state or others who own a hospital, it's essential that they get the treatment they need. That is why I would also like to remind you, even though we are now dealing with the ownership issue today, how important it is that government and enlargement follow up the plans we have adopted, on stepping up efforts in the areas where neglect is greatest. I think about cancer care, I think about psychiatry, and I think about the acquisition of better and more modern equipment for our hospitals – measures that can help cut health cows, relieve pain and cure. In reality, this reform means moving important decisions away from elected bodies with closeness to users – patients. I'm afraid that can lead to a democratic deficit in our hospital policy. The effectiveness is underlined, and that is important. But we all know that healthcare is as much a question of quality as quantity. In the past, we have dealt with a separate reporting on health care value. But I would also like to point out in this reform that in many ways we are facing a kind of paradigm shift in the health care meeting with users – for several reasons. Some of them are the new health laws, new ownership, which we are dealing with today, more conscious users, increased competition with the private, complexity of the professional, ethical and technological landscape, etc. We know that there are many health professionals who point out that health professionals often have poor ethical and moral skills in meeting these new challenges. The incentives for systematic value-added and increased focus on the soft and close values of healthcare are strong. My hope is that the government imposes performance requirements in the form of ethical settlements, in line with production targets and economic results. I hope this will also be something that will count in the further work on the hospital reform. I believe, for my part, that the challenges of management and internal division of tasks in hospitals are more crucial than ownership in developing increased quality and efficiency. The central government made this possible, inter alia: by choosing different organisational models, which could give their hospitals a freer position, under county ownership. The specialist healthcare and hospital services must be seen in the context of primary health services. I am afraid that this coordination can become more difficult with the model that is now being chosen, with hospital administrators without a political anchoring and administration levels that are responsible for primary health and hospital services, respectively, between which there is a great deal of distance. I believe all in all that this is not the key to a better and more efficient hospital in our country. The matter also has an interesting political side. The Labour Party often strongly warns against the policies of the right-wing parties in the development of the welfare society. It is therefore politically interesting that it is from the right-wing parties that the Labour Party government draws the support in this welfare policy case, and most enthusiastically from the Progress Party. I believe in any position in this matter today that we are wise to have a sober review and an evaluation of the experience and results of the new ownership and the new organisational model after some time. No one can be afraid, either those who had to believe that this is the great solution to our hospital problems, which I sometimes get the impression that someone believes, or those who had to believe that this is the big accident or the downfall. A factual and sober review that could lead to a big message – as the centre parties have suggested – in 2004, I find it difficult to understand why someone has against us. I record that neither the Labour Party nor the right parties are involved in this proposal. There are still opportunities for that, and I'll wonder if these parties that make up the majority in today's case will oppose such a sober review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e618	The issue under consideration here today is reflected in the range of major public sector reforms proposed by the Government. This reform will also be adopted. Only in the spring has the Stortinge dealt with police and judicial reform, the country's development as an oil and gas nation, a new petroleum tax system, new guidelines for economic policy and several other matters of great importance. The government has also presented several reforms, including: the reorganisation of the defence, the re-allocation of tasks between the different levels of government and the reform of higher education — to be dealt with here in the Chamber in the next few days. The case under consideration today is, however, special. Hardly any sector is as important to people's everyday lives as the health sector. Hardly any public services consume as much resources as our hospitals. Of a government budget of about 500 billion DKK, about 40 billion goes to the hospital sector. Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends most of its resources on healthcare, including care services. In 1998, the total health expenditure in the country was 8.9 p.m. of GDP — which places Norway in sixth place among OECD countries. Our medical density seems to be approaching the world peak, with 293 people per. occupational doctors in 2000. According to the judgment, this sector has had the largest growth in Norway in the 1990s. This is why it is so important that we make the necessary reforms in this area so that we can ensure better use of resources, better services to the population and more equivalent offers around the country. It appears from the Opinion that a majority of the Grand Duchy is now adopting the Government’s proposals, unless adjustments are made. The aim of this reform is to improve hospitals for the population. Access to healthcare shall be ensured irrespective of place of residence and economy. The status of this sector is currently high in many patients on waiting lists and a high shortage of health professionals. Through state acquisition and organisation in enterprises, the country will have an overall responsibility position for the specialist health service. The sector responsibility, financial responsibility and ownership are now being brought together on a single basis. It provides the State with better governance in the areas where it is necessary. The objective of equivalent healthcare is very close to today’s objective. It's e.g. large differences in waiting time for treatment of the same disorder across county boundaries, particularly in the area of mental health protection. There are also major geographical differences in medical practice in each area. In other words, today's health care system does not offer an equivalent offer regardless of where you live. The approach shows that the parties supporting the law have a very different approach to the hospital sector. However, it is common for both the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party to place a decisive emphasis on the need for reforms in order to increase the capacity of the health sector, while at the same time facilitating good governance and control of hospitals. But the right-wing parties want primarily privatisation and outsourcing, including healthcare. For the Workers' Party, such a division of what is today common well-being is irrelevant. The offer shall not depend on the wallet and the profit determining production. Access to healthcare should be independent of residence and economy, as I said, and it is not appropriate to allow private purchasing power to govern the provision of healthcare. Government governance and control should ensure and improve the rights of the population to an equivalent health provision. This is what the reform is about. There's an important ideological distinction between the Workers' Party and the Right Parties at this point -- I really think everyone agrees on that. Nevertheless, the recommendation indicates that these three batches are now primarily responsible for renewing the health sector. The centre parties have, incomprehensiblely, been fully sidelined when this important reform is adopted today, a reform that will lead, for many years to come, to the further development of the health sector. This attitude of the centre parties remains in a somewhat strange light, especially considering what the centre parties have previously thought about the organisation and operation of hospitals. The possibility for county municipalities to manage the hospitals that freed municipal hospital companies was introduced over a year ago — on a proposal from the central government. At that time, the centre parties even entered into the company as a form of hospital operation in certain situations. The working party was and is still opposed to an organisation as a share company, which is primarily suitable for general business operations with a focus on the owner's returns. In our view, organisation as a public limited liability company is not suitable for the operation of public hospitals. It seems uncertain what is now really the Christian People's Party and the rest of the Center's reason for going as massively against organization as their own company, when the Christian People's Party with Dagfinn Høybrätten as Minister of Health was for municipal hospital companies and even for limited liability companies in given situations. And with this close political history in the back of the mind, it was strange to hear the representative Næss' roaring ralling with the Minister of Health and with the reform adopted today. I then put back with a clear question: does the representative represent the same party as former Minister of Health Højbräten? And I was also wondering what the representative was thinking about the human vision of former Minister of Health Højbråten. Three provisions of the law adopted today are of particular importance as the security of a strong public health system in the future. For the first time, a legislative ban on partial privatisation and the sale of hospital services is laid down. Paragraph 43 of the Act provides for a prohibition on distinguishing establishments providing special health services, i.e.: clinical and medical and other health services in public hospitals. Paragraph 32 of the Act states that hospital activities cannot be sold without the consent of the Storting. This is the first time that this is laid down in Norwegian law. Paragraph 30 of the Act states that matters of material importance cannot be settled in the health business. In practice, this means that major issues should be addressed to magnification and government. For example, a hospital under the new law cannot be closed down only by a local decision. This is the first time that local hospitals are thus protected from closure. This is good news for the many local hospitals around the country. Odelstinget will today adopt a comprehensive organisational and responsibilities reform for the specialist health service – hospitals. The reform will create a clearer division of responsibilities and roles than has been possible with today's structure and ownership. Better provision is made for policy governance and the production of health services. This will benefit users – the population – from. With the inequalities, waiting lists and the lack of use of resources that we have today, the reform must be seen as a necessary precondition for better health in the future. The Odelstinget therefore takes a very important legislative decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e654	It is important to stress that state ownership itself does not solve the basic problems and the new challenges of hospital treatment. The important thing is that the undertakings are authorised to organise their activities and their ordinary activities without the need for a detailed management board by the State. However, this freedom should not be used to create unhealthy competitive conditions. Health enterprises must follow national health policy objectives and priorities. Health undertakings shall also impose strict requirements on good management, with a focus on real competence and on the ability to motivate their employees and to cooperate throughout the undertaking. State ownership and the organisation of hospitals in healthcare companies are instruments that clarify responsibility in a completely different way from the current system. The responsibility of management will be more clearly compared to the administrative organisation we have today. When country transfers to the health area go to regions instead of to the counties, health funds can no longer be mixed with money to other sectors. This is a clear improvement from the past, which will clearly show which resources are now made available to the health service. I want to use part of my post to say something about an area that is not included in the responsibility of the state in this round. It's about dental care. The county should continue to have sectoral responsibility because the issue of state acquisitions should be examined in more detail. In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health consultation note on the state takeover of the specialist healthcare service, the hearing bodies were specifically asked for views relating to future sectoral responsibilities, ownership and functioning of dental services. Three alternative solutions were outlined: continued county responsibilities municipal responsibilities state responsibilities Of the 300 consultation responses received in connection with the health business note, 65 of them had opinions on dental services. About half recommended that the State assume ownership and sectoral responsibility, as is the case with specialist health services. The rest divided equally between municipal responsibility and county responsibilities. The main argument for State acquisition is the consideration of equivalent services to the legally prioritised groups. In addition, it is an important argument that today’s recruitment problems seem difficult to solve with the current county anchoring. Those who stated that dental services should become municipal authorities understood that some municipalities need to cooperate in order to provide services imposed on them by the Law on Dental Health. The argument for municipal dental services is based on the fact that the service is considered to be a primary health service equivalent to the general medical service. Several of those recommending municipal sector responsibility proposed a shared solution, with specialist dental services being transferred to the State along with the other specialist health services. The remaining quarter of those who expressed their opinion on dental care recommended that it remain a county municipality. Most added that they wanted a more thorough assessment of this service before a decision was made on the anchoring. As the Government has decided that the issue of state takeover of dental care should be examined in more detail, I would like to take the opportunity to refer to the documents discussed by the Social Committee in the Stortinget on 5 April of this year, where, among others, the Committee. pointed out the close link between oral cavity disease and any other disease in the body. The lack of dentists in the districts was also carefully focused. There is a need for more information and for the use of dental practitioners who can prevent disease in the oral cavity and damage to teeth. Several older people retain their own teeth, and this group should also be better assisted in dental treatment, regardless of whether they live in an institution or in their own home. I'm glad there's going to be a new round, with a new consultation note, so that dental services get the same thorough evaluation as other health services. It is very important that the different health services are assessed as equally as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e688	This is a big case, which concerns our specialist health service, and which I hope and believe will prove to have a positive effect on the individual user of these services. I don't have the same ability as the representative Meltveit Kleppa to look into the glass ball and paint the future black, but at least I know that Norway is now approaching the world peak in terms of medical density, while we have long waiting lists. The county councils have done their best within the limits they have had. However, responsibilities have been unclear, and this may have led to poor use of resources deployed. Now, when we get an organisation in regional health companies, it's very important that you get a government that's well anchored in the region. This Management Board shall be appointed by the Meeting of Enterprises, which, in the case of regional undertakings, is the Ministry. The composition of the Management Board shall be such that the members together have the competence to carry out the tasks of undertakings. This means that there needs to be competence in areas such as health, economics, management, etc. The representation of employees in the board of directors is, of course, guaranteed by law. The user interests we also believe are well protected by Section 36 of the Act, where it is stated that representatives of patients and other users should be heard when messages and plans are drawn up. The law also states that the influence of patient organisations on planning needs to be channelled into formal processes. It is important that user views come to businesses as early as possible in planning and quality assurance processes. Getting in first can be in the last layer. Through the legal clauses that regulate this, we believe that the interests of users are well cared for, and we will follow up the business follow-up on this point. In the boards, patients’ organisations might have only one representative, but they now have formalised channels where everyone is entitled to be heard. As a representative of such a government, we are probably also all users, and will certainly feel it as a strength to get input from anyone who has experience in health care. Research and development of new technologies, together with feedback from users, are extremely important in maintaining and improving good services. In addition to the local anchoring of the members of the boards of regional health establishments, the proposal of the Ministry provides for a regional council. In the Workers' Party, we're amazed that we don't get support from the center of this point. Although there is disagreement about the reform, I thought it was obvious that it is those who secure the local anchoring. The representative, Bondevik, felt that there could be a poorer cooperation with the primary health service. I imagine that the Regional Council could be the link that is now gone. This is important for us, since the advice is composed of politicians who can care for the regional and county influence on the development of the specialist health service. The tasks of the Board of Governors shall include the obligation of the regional health undertaking to obtain advice in the context of the planning process. In this way, one could have ensured that regional policy bodies had an influence on the activities of enterprises. To date, there has been too much discussion about hospital structure and too little discussion about functional distribution. The majority of the Committee emphasises that in the foreseeable future we need all the hospitals that exist today, but that hospitals, in line with all other activities, must be prepared for changes in duties and responsibilities. This, regardless of ownership, will follow, among other things. of technological developments in the medical field. In Norway, we have highly skilled health professionals, skilled researchers, highly developed technologies and many health institutions with long experience. This, along with this reform, should make us well equipped to deal with future health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e709	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e712	The most important thing in this case is the establishment of hospitals as independent enterprises. This provides a great potential to trigger great creativity in the hospital sector. Hospital services involve large knowledge organisations, which are characterised by high complexity and high standards of competence for change. Governance in such organisations is difficult to implement through detailed rules and a strict hierarchical structure. Therefore, the organisation of enterprises is an important instrument for enabling hospitals themselves to meet their challenges. By giving individual enterprises and their managers more responsibilities, mandates and powers, a few can start very many positive processes. Therefore, this amendment is supported by the Right. However, we are concerned that the disclaimer described by the Minister of Health in his statement will continue by the fact that regional health companies take over the role of the county council because one has not been able to obtain a majority in order to separate the order and execution function. Hill-Marta Solberg tried in his post to create the impression that the Workers' Party was the foremost guarantor of public health. That's wrong. In fact, the Right Party and the Advance Party, the so-called right-hand side of Norwegian policy, are in favour of legislating and legislating the ‘give-for-principle’ in relation to the fact that it is the State that is responsible for providing the individual with the right to treatment. The working party does not extend beyond that they go in order for the public to operate and own. It is therefore the right-hand side that is the best guarantor that individual patients receive the treatment they need. It is therefore surprising that the Progress Party in this matter chooses to operate on its own, without going into alliance with the Right, in order to implement a larger part of our common policy. In this debate, a number of parallels have been drawn to Harald Haarfager, who brought Norway together to form one kingdom. But it's a very bad thing that the Council of State Tøn did not meet a Westerner in the Health Policy figures of the Advance Party, because then he would have met with significantly more stringent demands on what is for the benefit of the patients. The only Westerner in this case has been Annelise Höegh from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e723	It is, as many have said, a great day for the Advancement Party, by bringing together Health Norway into one kingdom. I think it's 20 years since we started writing about these things. That is why we are very pleased that the responsibility for hospitals has now come together. Otherwise, there are two interesting observations I have made in connection with the debate and also before the debate. One is that the Workers' Party has used the same argument as we have in the case of the end-of-the-counter game – that you do not owe each other, but that responsibility for the hospitals is collected in one place. It is a good promise if the Tore Tønne State Council can convey the same views to the Minister of Social Affairs. Because once the negative effects of the black player have been discovered in one area, we may be able to transfer it to another important area, namely the care of the elderly, where it is exactly the same principles. We have examples of a persistent shortage of nursing homes, and the Minister of Social Affairs is standing here and saying it's a municipal responsibility. That's why we have problems with nursing homes. If we had combined the financial responsibility for them as we do for hospitals, in the state budget, social ministers would not be able to give such answers for the future. So I hope that the Workers' Party will soon think through this principle also with regard to the other areas, especially the care of the elderly. So Kjell Magne Bondevik said that it really didn't mean much if there was a new owner of the hospitals. It didn't matter who owned the hospitals. It was the offer, and it was good and proper, which was crucial. And that's interesting. Imagine, then, whether the Christian People’s Party and Kjell Magne Bondevik could accept that the input-based price financing is also made available if private institutions and hospitals do operations! It could also be interesting if Tore Tønne could explain to Stortinget why it is not that ISF funding for the different rates can also go to private hospitals. Although they do not receive the basic appropriations that others receive, they must at least be able to receive input-driven funding if they carry out operations that they can do. And if Kjell Magne Bondevik has discovered that it's not who owns something, that's important, but how to do it, he should probably get a completely different view of competition in general. In many sectors, private enterprises and organisations are able to offer the production of services, which should be invited when it is the country that pays. So these two things I think are very, very important. So now it's just to get the Workers' Party to realize that the same argument that the case rapporteur used here should also be used for the care of the elderly, and Kjell Magne Bondevik has become a principle member of the competition, and that it doesn't matter who owns the shares or owns an enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e734	First, a little visit to the representative from the Right who spoke about Westerners. The Progress Party has two Westerners in the Social Committee, and that is probably also why the Progress Party has had an impact on its vision, while the Right has not had an impact on what they point out is unfortunate that others have not followed. So the Progress Party has at least put in place a model where there is now a distinction between the order and the execution model. The Minister of Health has also pointed out here that the regional enterprise should have an order function, while the enterprise should actually have an execution function – as said, the regional does not provide health services itself. So a little bit to the beginning of the debate. I sat first and listened to the representative Naess, and I must say that I really had a lot of trouble following the representative Naess on all points, except one, because on one point I agree with the representative Naess. I'm going to try not to use so many words that have to be put into quotation marks, but to use the correct term, as Naess did in the case of regional councils, that there is more money that is meant to consume liquid food. There I actually agree with Mr Naess, and I look forward to voting in the Chamber later today. But then, after a while, the representative Meltveit Kleppa stepped up to this pulpit, and it reminded me more of a gust of the past. I must say that after hearing that article I began to trick. But I realized then why it seems that the representatives of the Centre Party are increasingly moving in the direction of SV in some things compared to where they have been before. A representative from a party who has actually completely resigned from the debate goes up to the pulpit here and talks about what this will mean. It's a big day for those who want to privatize, said the representative Meltveit Kleppa. Well, that's not it. There is no privatisation here. This is to put in place an instrument so that we can meet the future of the healthcare system. You don't solve all the problems of a state takeover, but it's going to be an instrument. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa can imagine the possibility of going to the State Council chair once more, and that it would therefore be an advantage not to change this, because then the Council of State can continue to say: this is not my responsibility, this is the responsibility of the county council, and therefore I cannot be affected by this criticism. This is an important day for Health-Norway. We have put in place an important tool so that we can meet the future. It's an important matter for patients, because what's the main point here is to put patients in focus. The next thing we have to do in order for this to work is to have a legally binding right to treatment – and that is a position that only the Progress Party and the Right has previously taken. And then we're going to have the next tool in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e752	A joint committee says that there should be people's needs to control the development of welfare services, not the individual's economy or the desire to make money. The Christian People's Party supports this. But there are private hospitals run by Christian or humanitarian organizations that have service and not profit as primary goals. These have received little attention in the proposition. I find it strange that the Right and Advance Party do not support a committee comment that underlines the importance of concluding agreements with the institutions currently operated by private individuals, which are now part of public health plans, so that they remain part of the service provision. I am pleased with the Council's response today. The Labour Party has changed hospital policies. In 1997, the Health Minister, Hernes, was clear that the county municipality should own and operate the hospitals. Two years later, the Workers' Party confirmed the same when we passed a new law on the specialist health service. It can't be that a switch of hospital policies every time a health minister changes. It's created superstitious expectations for the reform. According to the rapporteur, if the state acquires ownership, health cows as well as disclaimers will end. The state today owns the Rikshospitalet, and it can hardly be described as a pattern practice. The government says that the welfare state needs to be further developed and renewed. Then it's strange that the Council of State Gisk rejects the corporate model of universities because he wants more public governance. Government Council barrels obviously do not want the same thing. The Christian People's Party believes that the hospital reform leads to centralisation of power. The proposed reform does not change at the number of decision-making levels. What is new is that the level closest to the user is not subject to direct popular governance. The Boards of Regional Health Enterprises shall be appointed by the Minister for Health. It seems that members should have more financial competence than professional or political competence. Users have not been properly cared for either. The state hospitals become the country's largest workplace, and I share the concern expressed by the Norwegian Municipal Council and a unanimous LO Congress. It is strange that today we are going to decide to introduce a model like this. England and New Zealand now go away. In the end, I hope that the Minister of Health has noticed that, when the management of regional health businesses is to be established, both Agder states agree that in the case of health enterprises in the south, Arendal is the best alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e773	I will first be allowed to draw attention to a mistake in the majority position regarding Section 46, about the Riksrevision. In the proposal, as indicated in the suspension, the third paragraph was to replace the first paragraph of the proposal. In the setting, this has become two different terms. Now this is corrected in a comprehensive proposal, No. 19, which is presented. All the lots concerned are in agreement with this correction, which is a correction in relation to what should be done here. Then to the opening ointment from the representative Naess. The Health Minister can defend himself, but I want to say that I think the characteristic given here was unworthy speech from this pulpit. With what right can the representative characterise our Minister for Health as ignorant? I've been on the social committee for eight years now, I've experienced four ministers of health, and I can assure the nation and the representative that this minister of health can cope with all the others – also he who represented the Christian People's Party half a year ago. Both the representative Alvheim and the representative Høegh were at an important point when they said that the regional health committees should not operate the establishments. The clarifications requested by the Right and the Advance Party support and clarify the organisation of health businesses, which was also the basis of the proposal. I can assure these representatives that it has been a prerequisite for this to happen, and that the clarification made in the committee – and this is now being adopted at Odelstinget – is quite correct. Since this is perhaps the last debate the representative Annelise Höegh is taking part in here, at least as a magnificent representative, I would like to say that what was said here from her side was worth listening to. It was less worth listening to part of what I heard from other representatives here. I'm a little surprised by the choice of words used from this pulpit – I have to say. I have mentioned one example – several could have been mentioned, but I will leave it. Then I must also say, with reference to what was said about changing health policies, that the long-term health policy of the Workers' Party is determined by our national meetings and the programme decisions that we are making there. Today, we are meeting an important point in the programme that was adopted three-and-a-half years ago, by now adopting this reform. I'm very happy that we've got it, with the support of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e787	Let me first try to clarify the lines between me and the Minister of Health. My reply was not a statement that the revenants in Rogaland were to participate in the regional enterprise. My reply was primarily intended to underline the difference in the current system, where user organisations should have a close dialogue with a popular community level. So to Hill-Marta Solberg in relation to the organization and the changes in vision that she thinks have found. Let it be quite clear from the centre party's side: what we want, and which we think would be a better organization, is a municipally anchored enterprise, where the enterprise itself is anchored in local populace as being responsible. I seem to remember that these are leading health politicians from the Workers' Party who have changed their eyesight along the way. Gunhild Eyegen and Asmund Kristoffersen were both initially very skeptical of the model which was launched by Tore Tønne. So to Nesvik: I just want to remind you that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV stand together in their comments, and there's no line break here from the Center Party's side, if he can read it out of what I said. But I am recording what he said in his post, that this could be a small change. The decision taken today is not a change and it is a first step towards privatisation. They're the ones who are worried about it. So I want to use the last part of my article to ask questions that are not settled today. I'm going to leave child protection and the drugs field, but I just want to say that I'm happy that the government there takes better time than it has done when it comes to what is adopted today. I want to challenge the Minister of Health to add to his situation, and to facilitate the effective involvement and impact of employee organisations on all aspects of the reorganisation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e800	Norwegian health services have large resources in terms of competence and excellent professionals, and there are large capital investments in equipment. Our biggest challenge is that we per cent. Today is not able to get it out of the total resources that we could and should get. One of the reasons is that we have a decision-making system that invites too many of the actors to invest their forces in placing responsibility elsewhere than where they are themselves at all times. It's not a particularly productive decision-making system. The main step forward in the reform adopted today is to clarify the relationship between power and responsibility. In general, it is an advantage that power and responsibility are followed. It has always been so that economic power lies with the state. The fact that the responsibility is also made clear on the state's hand is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. Let me also add that the reform could have become significantly more far-reaching, and with significantly greater prospects of achieving a completely successful outcome, if the government party had also dared to draw the logical consequence, namely that three levels of government can be simplified to two, and that we can cope without the county council when the main task of the county council today falls away. But let me add that one thing that amazes me is that the same government that argues well and convincingly for optimum use of resources requires that individual institutions be made as independent as possible and get their own responsibility, at the same time wanting to carry out a completely parallel reform in higher education, in which one argues exactly the opposite of what one does in the case of hospital reform. It says in a book that I have a certain knowledge that a house that conflicts with itself cannot stand. It is a promising prophecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e813	Let me give my full support to the last speaker said when it came to this with responsibility position. I am also a Westerner and have participated in the struggle to gather Norway into a health state, but the Westerner Are Næss escaped and did not participate in this fight. That's the difference between me and the representative Are Næss. Otherwise, I have to say that when Bondevik asks himself why it should be Right and the Advance Party that would secure a majority in favour of this reform, he must have followed poorly in the hour during the years he has been sitting on the Stortinget and also the Progress Party has been represented. If there are some parties in this room who have tried every year to make new ideas to improve the situation in our health care system, based on the needs of patients, it's just the two right parties. I have to say that I am very pleased with the result that is present today in the current setting. I'm just as surprised that the centre parties have placed themselves completely on the sideline, and have not wanted to participate in any constructive cooperation to maximise this reform. It's also a cross of thought, but it shows, in my view and in my experience with these parties over several years, that they really don't have any health policies at all, but they're dealing with the old, the traditional, and the so-called safe. And then I have to get back to the representative Are Næss" post. It just hurt me. Is it possible to draw my view of humanity, my value questions, in doubt about the health policy I have been pursuing on behalf of my party over all these years? How is this possible? If the patients forget, it was said. This is so serious that it should actually have been unspoken by the representative Are Næss, and I want to say it so strongly: I will have for the future asked myself this characteristic of my human vision and my party's human vision in any political debate. I simply don't accept it, because it is then to those degrees unfair and false that I can almost find no words for it!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e824	The last Alvheim said, and to the extent that most of it, I can give my full support. I don't think there's a division in human vision that makes it separates in the view of today's case. Alvheim also said he is very happy today. I am too, but I would like to be even a little happier. When Alvheim asked a little rhetorical in his first post about what the Right has got in addition to what the Advance Party has done, unfortunately the answer to that is: nothing. It's not our fault! The problem has been that the Progress Party played away the cards before the game was started, by saying what they would subsidiaryly accept. And why in the world would the Workers' Party negotiate more than they had to. The sad result of another good day is that we, the Right Party and the Advance Party, might have achieved more together. But because the Progress Party has chosen to put, as I said, narrow party interests ahead of patient interests, we have achieved no more than we have. But at least it's a beginning – a good beginning. So to Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, who demanded why not Right would support the conclusion of an agreement with the private people who are currently part of health care and within the regional health plans. Of course, it's not right that the Right does not agree with that, we have written that in our own comments, and this is evident from our bill. The problem is that the Christian People's Party and the rest of the intermediate parties have not wanted to go into this matter and stand outside, as Alvheim and several others have been involved. In contrast, if not so much Woie Duesund, but at least Are Næss, Kjell Magne Bondevik held a calm and balanced post, I would say, which in a completely different way warned that here one might be in a not too distant future willing to enter into this problem in a more positive way than the middle parties' principal figures today have expressed. Of course, the Right is willing to evaluate the scheme, but perhaps not after two years, except that we get an annual evaluation through the health plan to be provided by regional health businesses. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his kind words. It's always good to hear when someone's about to stop. I think it was a pity, therefore, that the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, fell for the temptation to say something that is completely wrong, namely that the Right Party, and to some extent also the Advance Party, will privatize the health service. It's essentially using the same type of rhetoric that the middle parties have done here today. There is nothing in today's position that warrants it, rather on the contrary: we want full state funding and full state ownership of the healthcare system. Then you can't say you're in favour of any privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e839	Essentially, there has been agreement on the objectives of the Norwegian healthcare system at a general level: the creation of equivalence, regardless of age, economy and place of residence for the individual. there is disagreement as to the means to be used to achieve the objective; In the case of the hospital service and how it is to be organised, at least I and SV believe that the choices you are making now are in many ways a choice of values away from that objective. The consequences will be very fast that you don't create equivalence. You don't create even distribution of the offer. You lose the popularly elected control that could give that consequence. There is no guarantee of user involvement, which has also been able to contribute to this in a constructive way. It opens up too much for commercial actors to come in. This seems centralizing, and you get greater supply differences. Not pointing out these kinds of consequences would be a total failure. I have to say that I'm quite surprised to see, when you point out the danger of this kind of consequences, with which indignation, among other things. The Council of State is involved in these counter-representations. It had to be much more constructive if the Council of State could look at the realities and try to answer the issues in a convincing way, instead of drawing out, as I see it has been done here several times, considerations completely gripped by its context. When I deal with this with the Rikshospitale, it's because it's a problem. The Rikshospitalet is at the hands of the state, and yet we see that there are significant operational problems today. We see an exceedance of 270 million. kr. We have seen an expansion phase and an establishment phase for the new Rikshospitalet with a lack of government governance with the entire project. We see today that special groups of patients, for whom the Rikshospitalet has a data controller, are unable to accept the data controller's responsibility properly. The responsibility for carrying out that treatment is already placed with the Council of State. Nevertheless, the Council of State refuses to address the issue when it is used as an example in relation to state acquisition. Me and SV are convinced that there may be both advantages and disadvantages associated with a state acquisition, but it becomes very important to provide leadership for the state acquisition that ensures continued government governance. I have to say, when this debate is beginning to come to an end, that I think it is a pity that the Council of State is not going to go into more detail about what he wants with this reform, and how to ensure equivalence, instead of taking fractions of the text out of context to try to weaken the counter-arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e850	It's not easy to make all of them layers. When one is accused of having escaped from the fight and at the same time of having made a post that hurt, it is, in my opinion, a little difficult to combine. The Christian People's Party has not escaped this battle. We have a different position than the representative Alvheim and the Progress Party, and we have not signed up for this. I noticed that the representative Alvheim used part of his post to characterise the so-called counter-signature as a match. In my opinion – I only have a relatively superficial knowledge of this message – it nevertheless provides a thorough review, with references and references, among others. in relation to other countries, which means that in many ways in my view it is more serious than the proposition we have received from the Government. Annelise Höegh wondered if businesses are the new banner in the Christian People's Party. No, it's not, we don't use old or new. It is true that this word was also used by the central government, but it was in a completely different context, namely when the then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten presented the so-called menu for various types of hospital connection to the county. This was, as I said, a completely different model, and is not comparable. In the case of patient organisations, as Annelise Hoegh also mentioned, we, as the Right, support their representation in the health enterprise boards. With regard to my alleged unworthy speech, as the rapporteur pointed out, I would just like to reiterate that I have not at all called the Minister of Health ignorant. What I've pointed out is that the Councils of State Gudmund Hernes and Tore Tønne may have a more peripheral knowledge of the health system than, for example, they do. Former Minister of Health of the Workers' Party, Werner Christie. I also want to ask myself the suspicion that representatives John I. Alvheim and Hill-Marta Solberg and also the Minister of Health were responsible for. I haven't said anything about either my own or anyone's human vision. What's in the position is that considering a patient as a product is contrary to human vision and the ethics of most people. And I think there must be general agreement on that. So Christian People's Party, as I said, has not signed up. We have registered that SV is proposing to organise the specialist health service as a management company. It's not our model, but it's a well-known attempt to angle the proposition's bill in a different direction. In some areas it is clearly better than the proposition, and the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the SV's proposal for §§ 21, 25 and 32. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 10, from the Right and SV, and the proposal for Section 22, first paragraph, second sentence of Proposal No. 11, from the right. Because of the consequences, we will also vote subsidiaryly in favour of the suspension proposal for Section 32 and vote in favour of Section 46.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e869	Sir. Alvheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e872	I owe the Right an answer in connection with Annelise Höegh's first post. There was this in distinguishing between the order role and the delivery role. We haven't looked at this in the same way as the Right that wants a separate organ on the outside of the system. We think such a body would be very bureaucratic and quite costly. However, we have faith that when we are separated from the roles, and the regional health care company is not supposed to perform health care, it would be natural for this body to take on the order role, and therefore our attitude to the matter is as it now exists. Otherwise it is possible that I am too bad a player, but the playing style I have, I want it to continue as well. I have two specific questions for the Minister of Health, if he is to speak later: the Tempo Plan – when can we expect the establishment of health enterprises and regional health enterprises and the location to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e881	The representative Høegh has also spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e884	To Alvheim's last post, I just want to say that of course this is not a game. So my word was not so well chosen instead. But what I think we owe our ideas, what I think we owe patients, what I think we owe to those who put us in this room, is to fight for all of our views as hard as we can until it says stop. And I do not feel that the Progress Party has done in this matter. We do not know how far we could have come if we had been together in negotiations with the Workers' Party. The Progress Party has not wanted to do that. They wanted to have that role alone. We've recorded that, and it's true, as Alvheim says, that they wanted an order role, not a separate body, as we've been in favour of. I have nothing against revealing that the Right took contact with the Advance Party during the committee treatment and said that we were willing to discuss the Progress Party model if they were willing to talk to us. It was rejected – so we no longer came. I'm sorry, but otherwise it's been a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e891	State Council Tore Tønne has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e895	In three minutes it is not possible to go through all the comments that have come and the questions that have been raised here. I will try to answer someone. I still do not understand why the representative Ballo believes it is relevant in this case, which is comprehensive enough as it is, to go into a detailed explanation of the conditions at the Rikshospitale, otherwise according to a governance model that I have not used as an example for follow-up. That is why, in this proposition, I have also proposed a completely different governance model. When he then asks what I really want, I can give the short version, and ask him to go along with it: what is the point of this is, first of all, to provide a clear, unambiguous, responsibility for the hospital sector. Secondly, it is my goal to get more out of the large common resources deployed in the sector, more in the form of more, better and more equivalent healthcare to the whole population. As regards the final question from the representative of Alvheim, it is the intention, if a decision is now taken on this matter, that the establishment of regional health undertakings, the appointment of the board and their location will take place before the summer, so that they will be able to implement it in the second half of the year in such a way that the reform can take effect as from the end of the year. I must again take the opportunity to comment on this with the fact that words can be used for as many things as the representative Meltveit Kleppa mentioned. What surprised me, to a large extent, is not the strange use of words she herself illustrated. What I think is suitable for amazement is that a elected legislator in the Odelstinget can express such a lack of respect for the legislative process itself and its outcome, as I think it was in her contributions. When she attributes here to us the characteristics of the law, word and expression, for which there are no freckles on the basis, either in the letter or in the spirit of the bill, I think it becomes something strange. In the end, I have alternately been criticized for not having studied the conditions in New Zealand and England and for not having copied them. None of that's right, of course we've done it. But if I were to make the words of Aasmund Olavsson Vinje mine, it must be at the end to say, "The greatest thoughts we always get from the world's great white; but these thoughts they break must, like rays of sun, always get in each one of them to wave a different color."
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e919	Magnhild Melting Band Kleppa has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e922	Of course, I cannot believe that in my post I have shown a lack of respect for the legislative process. In this case, I have to ask for documentation. On the contrary, I believe that I have stressed that the process should have been more extensive, taking longer and providing the basis for discussion and reflection in a different way than the progress that the Government has made here. You know, it's like propulsion and hearing processes, and so on. is much more extensive in matters that mean much less to the many, than the big thing that we are dealing with today. I also think that in my post I have actually clarified better than the Minister of Health the respect that I think we should all have for the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. [[See page 712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e948	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e959	It is an overall committee which points out that the Ministry has finally submitted a proposal for a new legislation on children’s contributions, after this was first sent to the hearing in September 1996. Few issues generate as much commitment to the stakeholders as to the contribution code. It is therefore good that the Government has managed to present a legislative proposal based on today’s situation, a situation where both parents are usually active. The Committee refers to the fact that, under the applicable law, the contribution is generally determined as a percentage of the taxable person's income, without taking into account the actual cost of the child's maintenance, the presence of the child or the income of the beneficiary. Although the general rule that the contribution is fixed as a fixed percentage of the contributor’s income is simple, the contribution is made in 90 pst. of the cases laid down by the public authorities. According to the SSB, 91 pst. by the men responsible for contributions, and 93 pst. by the beneficiaries women. The contributors pay on average contributions to 1.43 children. The Committee considers that, in the context of public support schemes, rather than stimulating conflict, the publicly administered contribution scheme must enable both parents to care for their children, regardless of the situation of their parents. The Committee underlines the need for a contribution model that all parties will experience as fair and fair as possible and which ensures that both parents share the care and upbringing of the children as fair and as reasonable as possible. Such a contribution model will lead to increased willingness to pay and smaller conflicts between parents, which in any case will benefit the children. In my view, these wordings are gratifying that the whole committee is behind them. This means that an aggregate increase now sees the unfairness of the current contribution scheme, where only the contributor’s income is decisive for the amount of the contribution. The need for a new contribution scheme, which underlines the responsibility of both parties for raising children and a model that mitigates conflicts between parents, is important. That a minority then chooses to take a different model to achieve this goal, I consider less important in this context. So to a small technical detail: the Committee refers to a letter from the Ministry of 23 May 2001, in which Section 5 The size of the first paragraph of the third sentence is changed and is replaced by the following: ‘In cases referred to in the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 3, full advance payments shall always be made unless the expiry rule of the third paragraph of Section 4 applies.’ The Committee has agreed to this clarification. And so on to the majority of the committee: all except the Progress Party have joined in the proposal to amend the tax law so that the beneficiary no longer taxes on the contribution and that the contribution cannot be deducted from the taxable profit of the contributor. In the view of this majority, this means a clear simplification. A large majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, have noted that the basic principles of the proposal for new rules have been widely endorsed by the hearing bodies. In the view of this majority, today’s rules are poorly adapted to a time when it is common for both parents to participate in the labour market and have their own income. Nor do the rules encourage the contributor, who in most cases is a father, to associate with the child. The majority indicate that association today does not affect the size of the contribution. The consequence of this is that, through association, the contributor also helps to cover current maintenance costs. In the case of low-economic contributors, the ability to pay contributions may be at the expense of the financial possibility of associating with the child. The majority would stress that the child’s dependability is initially a private matter and that contributions as a general rule can and should be agreed and paid without the withdrawal of public authorities. This majority subscribes to the principles laid down by the Ministry for Child Welfare: 1st@item: inlistbox The child's need for means of support shall be shared between parents according to his or her financial capacity.2. The regulatory framework shall encourage continued care by both parents.3. Private agreements on the contribution shall be facilitated. The purpose of the contribution obligation shall be to ensure that the child is entertained where the child does not live with both parents and that the amount of the contribution should be proportionate to the child’s needs. The proposed cost model ensures that the contribution is determined on the basis of what it actually costs to support the child and that these costs of maintenance are distributed proportionately between parents according to their income. The contribution shall be tested against the contribution of the contributor and shall then be reduced for the costs incurred during agreed or agreed consensualisation. The majority indicate that the Ministry’s proposal is based on a draft sent at the hearing in June 1999, but that some simplifications have been made to this effect in order to avoid millimetres of justice and over-complicated legislation. This majority agrees that the starting point for the determination of contributions shall be the cost of providing the child with reasonable entertainment and that SIFO’s standard budget for consumption costs is taken into account, with a supplement for housing costs. The maintenance costs shall then be broken down between parents by income. In order to avoid the frequent need to change the contribution, the majority concludes that five alternative shares of the maintenance cost to be borne by the contributor depending on the relationship between the parent’s income are determined. For both parents, gross personal income plus net capital income above NOK 10000 shall be taken into account. The contributor will receive a deduction from the contribution for agreed or publicly agreed relations with the child. The association is categorised in four classes of association, from two to three nights per. month to 14–15 nights per month. months. This majority also agrees with the amendment of the People's Security Act so that beneficiaries of transitional aid retain the full amount of the fixed contribution and with the amendment of the rules on advance payments so as to reduce the amount of advance payments in proportion to the income of the beneficiary. The majority also indicates that the Ministry maintains the proposal of the consultation note to test the proportion of the maintenance cost of the contributor against the ability to pay, to which the majority subscribes. We also agree that a minimum contribution should not be set. The majority agree that the contribution is to be indexed annually and that the individual templates related to the maintenance cost are adjusted annually based on indexation or up-to-date statistics. The consumption expenditure template follows the annual adjustments made by SIFO. We would stress that contributions as a general rule can and should be agreed without involving public authorities. The majority therefore agree to the imposition of a public contribution fee to reduce the number of cases in which the contribution is publicly determined, while at the same time providing for some coverage of the expenditure in cases where the contribution is fixed or modified by the public. The majority also ask the Government to provide information on the new rules, calling on them to form the basis of private grant agreements as soon as they have been adopted. Although it will take some time before the rules can be implemented, it should be encouraged, with reference to the entry into force of new rules, to conclude private agreements on the basis of the new legislation. Such a comprehensive conversion of the rules on contributions is necessary. This will provide a fairer regulatory framework. In the consultation round, there has been broad support for a new model with new principles for determining contributions. However, there have been differing views on the different factors underlying the determination of contributions and their weighting. The majority will not disregard the fact that some adjustments may be necessary after the regulatory procedure has been tested in practice. The majority ask the Ministry to assess the need for adjustments after the legislation has entered into force and has had a period of operation. There has been a long process before a proposal for new rules on contributions was finally submitted to the Stortinget. In the view of the majority, the new legislation should enter into force as soon as possible. In the proposal, the Ministry indicated that it would take four years before the new rules could come into force, because the Rikstrygdewerk needs time to prepare. Such a waiting period was found unacceptable by the Committee, and we welcome the fact that, after a more thorough assessment, the Ministry and the Swedish National Agency have presented an alternative where implementation can take place one year and nine months faster than foreseen in the proposal, from 1 October 2003. PricewaterhouseCoopers has carried out an independent verification of the Rikstrøgdeverket’s plans for the implementation of the new contribution legislation and assessed the situation so that there are few opportunities for faster implementation without jeopardising the quality of the project. In the view of the majority, the law should enter into force as soon as possible, and the majority request that the Ministry, together with the Riksstrøgdeverket, continue to assess possibilities to ensure faster implementation. A second majority refers to the fact that no limit was proposed in the consultation note on the amount of revenue received by the contributor to be able to pay contributions. This majority considers it appropriate to set such a limit in order to avoid a disproportionate burden of contributions in cases where the income of the contributor is low and contributions are payable for several children. The proposal proposes to set a maximum total contribution of 25 pst. the income base of the contributors. This majority also suggests that one of the objectives of the new rules is: «The child's need for means of living shall be shared between parents according to their financial capacity and as fair and reasonable as possible.» It is high time we got a new contribution code. There's no disagreement about that. It is natural that when a new legislation is introduced, based on a different model from the old one, there will be a number of questions and indications related to uncertainties about how the new system will look to the individual. The important thing, however, is that a broad majority today join the new regime and at the same time are open to adjustments if the new regime proves to be particularly unfair to some. So I want to add that the minority has a different model, and I expect it to be presented by representatives of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1034	That's the end of a long process we're starting today. The then State Council Grete Berget was the first to understand both the problems of today's contribution scheme, which took the initiative to get something done with them. Since then, several suggestions have been made on how to improve the current system in order to correct the weaknesses of the system. The end of the display was to create a whole new system, based on completely different criteria than today's system. There were many ways of changing the political agenda in the mid-1990s. Then for years we had tried both whips and carrots to get more men to take greater responsibility at home and in the care of their children. Of course, it happened because the political majority thought it was important for the children to have two parents. Without going too far into it, it may well also be stated that we had many negative experiences with fathers who did not provide for their children, both before and after the breakup of their lives. First we got the father quota, and it's obvious that both it and a general focus on the father's role have made more and more people now taking part in their children's lives. It was just supposed to be missing, many would say, but it wasn't obvious just a decade ago. The working party started a work already then to get to where we are today. We see that several fathers participate, we see that more take responsibility, but at the same time that it's a piece again. In recognition of this, it is also important to remember the political work that needs to be done in parallel to get even more people to do. There have been problems along the way, and one of the first things we discovered was that the systems that determine the relationship between mother and father after a break in life are based on the fact that the contributor does not participate in the lives of his children, while the contributor is the party that needs protection. The systems we have created, and the outside world, not least the courts, seemed – and seems – to continue this attitude, even in a situation where we see that there have been major changes in responsibilities only in the last ten years. Therefore, it is only natural that we now establish a system that helps to equalise the financial responsibility of the parties for their children's growth, while at the same time facilitating and stimulating both parents to take responsibility for the children after a break in their lives. In fact, today's system is involved in undermining this goal, and there's no doubt that the majority in this room believes it's not in line with what we think is the best of the children. So it took a whole new system to find good solutions that both mother and father take responsibility both financially and not least through association with their children. That is why a system is now being established based on the costs involved in having children. That's why it's completely wrong to try to compare the new system with the old one. The new system is primarily about the fact that the children are entitled to two parents even after a break. The old system didn't work that way. To make financial calculations about who gets the winner, and who gets the loser, those who think it's important, take care of it. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing has been to come up with a system that puts children first and gives them the opportunity to have contact with both parents even after a break in life. That is why it is also right to say that today's changes in law go into the political line that the Berget State Council drew up with the introduction of feudal leave, not only so that fathers were encouraged to be at home with their children, but also so that it was possible for men to have a means of pressurisation or an excuse for employers and the environment that seemed to be infested with men who cared for their children. There is a lot to be said about the processes behind today's legislative change, not least why it took so long when the problems had already been seen in 1995. Frequent state councillor is one of the reasons. I will never forget the ephemeral comments of the former Minister of Children's Affairs, Svarstad Haugland, when she took over the State Council place: at least she was not going to spend as long as the former government councils of the Workers' Party were to create a new system. When she left, she had spent longer time than the others combined, without any new system being adopted. That is why it is a feather in the hat of the current Minister for Children and Family Affairs that the proposal was there before it had been one year. Then not everyone is satisfied with the decisions we make today either, and there could have been a lot that could have been done differently. An example is the use of actual costs versus stencils. But it would have created a very bureaucratic system, which would have been unmanageable. And given the time it takes to implement this system, an even more complicated system would contribute to further time shifts. Now it's time to get to the changes that we see will help create a better system. There are several things I am pleased with in this proposal. The transitional aid shall no longer be curtailed against the contribution. This will help to facilitate the everyday lives of those with the lowest income among beneficiaries. Many have characterized the old system as a state rule, and it is not always so easy to see why that system is there. But now there are changes that will have major economic consequences in the positive direction of precisely the group that serves at least among mothers, which it essentially applies to. At the same time, there are changes to travel, which should also help children to maintain contact with both parents more easily. Sharing travel costs will not only make it easier for contributors, usually fathers, to maintain contact and set up for the children. There is also a hope that both parents will put the children’s best interests first when it is time to change their place of residence. Today, it's probably too easy to forget the kids up there. Then it will take some time for the new rules to apply, which is due to technical and practical reasons. It was suggested four years, but during the treatment we managed to get it down to above two years. At the same time, it's also clear to those who are looking for, that the law can actually work so that fathers can risk being pushed even more out of their children's lives for economic reasons. It's not a question we can solve through the contribution scheme, but it's possible to do it in other ways. We have time to figure that out until the new system comes into force. And I expect that we'll get stronger back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1064	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Stortinget is today finally considering important and necessary changes to the contribution scheme, the advance scheme under the law on contributions, proposals for the repeal of the special tax rules on child contributions under the law on taxes on wealth and income and proposals for the abolition of the reimbursement rule in the case of transitional benefits paid under the law on social security. Now, Mr. Trond Helleland has given a very thorough and good account, and also the last speaker, Mr. Jon Olav Alstad, so there may not be a need to say so much, because we do have the same thing. However, I feel that I have to say a little about this. There is no doubt that this amendment to the law has been met with great anticipation. And there is also no doubt that the proposed changes will be of great importance and have consequences in the lives of many people. Many people may have complained that it has taken so long to develop a new regulatory framework in this area. Yes, it has taken a long time, and it has been necessary. It's a very complicated code we're dealing with today, and it's not without reason that several governments, including the central government, have done a lot of work in this area to make it as good as possible. The representative Alstad gave praise to the current Council of State for having managed to get this through in this short time, and I will join it. I still feel that it might be natural to draw a little parallel to what we often see in nature, that some wounds, others win and others reap again. That's the way it's going to be in politics, too. But this is a difficult and delicate question. Contribution issues should, as you know, be determined in situations where feelings are involved, and often there are strong conflicts between the parties. In addition, the contribution rules have a significant financial impact on the public. It is therefore natural that thorough and long-term work should be carried out to maximise the sustainability of the important and difficult balances to be made. We recognise that today's life patterns make different demands than before, as most children who had previously been entitled to contributions were born of mothers who were alone with the child from birth. Now it is more common for those who need contributions to be children with parents who move or divorce. The fact that it is far more common for both parents, men and women, to now have gainful employment is also a major change to be taken into account in the contribution legislation. In particular, it is important that the contribution scheme meets today’s and not yesterday’s challenges. Today’s society requires a contribution code adapted to the challenges we face today, and the Christian People’s Party therefore supports the objectives underlying the new rules. An important and fundamental question that now needs to be answered before discussing details is: What should be the guiding principle in calculating contributions? The measurement rules have changed along the way, in line with the needs for changes captured by stakeholders, and the current model, the percentage model, has been subject to changes. Nevertheless, it has been increasingly expressed that today's system does not work satisfactorily for many. It became clearer and clearer that there was a need for other completely basic grip. I am therefore pleased that the model on which the central government chose to build the legislation for new rules on contributions has been continued by the government of Stoltenberg. The central government had the choice between two different models when a consultation note was to be sent on proposals for amendments to the contributions legislation in 1999. The central government chose the cost model, since important principles such as that both parents have an equivalent responsibility for both care and care of the child, the costs should be shared between parents according to their financial ability as fair as possible, and not least: the child’s need for maintenance must be given weight. Although some point to weaknesses also in the legislation adopted today, the Christian People's Party agrees with the basic principles: the contribution shall be determined by allocating the costs of maintenance between parents proportionally according to their income, and the contribution shall be tested against the contribution of contributors, and then reduced for expenditure during agreed or agreed cooperation. The cost model itself is based on what it actually costs to support a child. This fact justifies the amount of the contribution in a concrete way to the parents, and it believes the Christian People's Party is a good point. Moreover, this principle ensures that the child is properly maintained regardless of the level of income of his or her parents. It is of great importance that children suffer as much as possible from any conflict between their parents or suffer from a low level of regulation. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the proposition so clearly emphasises that child care obligations are initially a private matter, and that contributions can, as a general rule, be agreed and paid without the involvement of the public. For these, the rules of the Children's Act on contributions will be indicative. And where the government decides on the contribution, it's very important that we have clear and fair legislation. As mentioned above, there have also been objections to the proposed legislation. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe it is important to listen to these counter-representations, even though at the same time we are fully committed to the proposed cost model. Of course, such a complex regulatory framework could always have some unintended, unfortunate consequences. It is also clear that there is a problem that the legislation is so complicated that many people will have problems fully understanding it. To that end, we would rather have a complex set of rules that take into account, to a large extent, individual variations in people's lives than a single set of rules that do not take individual considerations into account. But in order to ensure us as much as possible against any unfortunate consequences of the change in the rules, the Christian People's Party introduced a note, for which we have received a majority in the committee, where we say that ‘This majority has noted that, among others: The parent association alone and the NTL have argued that some groups may find the new rules difficult to deal with. [[AFFO]] The aim of this majority is to ensure that the new scheme is as much as possible for those with the lowest incomes. This majority requests that this issue be assessed on an ongoing basis and that any unreasonable responses be corrected.’;» The Christian People's Party is pleased that a majority is involved and points out the need for an ongoing evaluation of the scheme, so that any weaknesses can be corrected along the way. I therefore hope that this can be seen as a joyous day for the many who have been waiting for a better and fairer contribution scheme. Now we have to wait for the implementation to be completed, and hope that there will be no unnecessary delays, so that the waiting time will be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1111	Let me first say that the Progress Party is very pleased that, after ten years of debate on new rules on contributions, proposals for new rules have finally been submitted. Although the proposal under consideration is not optimal, it will be a clear improvement in relation to the existing system. I don't want to leave it unsaid: there's been an unusual amount of training here. Who is responsible for almost ten years of changing the rules on contributions is not good to say, but it is a fact that the last four governments have signalled that new rules on contributions should be proposed to the Stortinget. I record that the representative Alstad now says that the last government has only spent one year, but if we go back in time, we see that it has taken much longer than that. I would also like to bear in mind that the proposal presented largely includes changes in line with the 1996 proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party, which were voted down in the Stortinget in February of this year. There is no doubt that, together with the Children’s Act, the existing contribution scheme has led to the economic win-win aspect stimulating a struggle for who will have the children after a break in life. This is a public sanction and structural attack on children and families, and it is clearly contrary to international conventions on family and children, ratified by Norway. The proposal on the table today will enable both parents to care for their children in a much better way, regardless of the situation of their parents, but there is still some uncertainty, and that is why the Committee wants to follow developments further. The new contribution scheme will provide both fit parents with the same opportunity to create an equivalent home and equivalent rearing conditions for the children. Their actual care costs have to be allocated according to their actual exercise of care in relation to tax law. All actual expenditure, such as travel expenses for association/care and all public support schemes, must be organised in such a way as to support both parents’ ability to perform a normal parental role. The contribution model is based to a greater extent on the basic idea that both parents are equivalent, with joint responsibility for the care and rearing of the children. This requires taking into account both income and expenditure related to the equivalent care of both parents for the children. Nevertheless, it is worrying that the proposition continues to hold a hint of lack of equidistant thinking. The design of the present proposition is still controlled too much by whom the permanent residence of the child is allocated, and not by the actual care provided by both parents to the child. It is striking that, in its case-law, the Ministry has not been willing to address the discussion on the level at which the child’s social security level triggers increased household costs even in the case of a cohabiting parent. Here I would like to point out that in the proposition it is stated that it is the right of destination for the child and not the actual care that governs the level of contributions, cf. clarification in the proposition on page 41: ‘The decisive distinction between divided residence and extended association does not refer on time but to decision-making powers. In the case of extended association, the child shall live permanently with one of the parents.’;» In fact, the Progress Party wants more equality of care with financial contributions. For this reason, the Progress Party has made the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to make an in-depth assessment of the provisions on divided residence when the Children’s Act is revised.’ In fact, most of the parties will benefit from the new arrangement if you want to. The public will benefit from a joint care based contribution schemes, where parents themselves share the costs and relieve each other so that they can participate in both work and education. Based on the figures given in the Velferdsmeldung, pages 123-125, it is assumed that the annual public savings could amount to 500 million. kr. Equal treatment of parents also in the economic context will improve cooperation between parents. The proposal also stimulates parents to live close to each other because travel expenses have been proposed among their parents. But there is something unclear about how to recover such costs, especially where conflicts prevent this. The Progress Party therefore proposes: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide several alternative models for the collection of travel expenses for journeys between parents’ homes.’ Another element that the Progress Party believes should be given attention is cohabitation and care. It is a reality that cohabitation boycott/care sabotage occurs in 20-40 pst. of the child-sharing cases following a broken life. The Party considers that such sabotage should assess whether cut-offs in the contribution can be used as a sanctioning option. Such a scheme would result in greater pressure on both parents to act in harmony with the best of the child and to guarantee the child’s right to two parents. I should also like to refer to Document No. 8:44 for 1998-99 from the Progress Party on this problem, where the Progress Party proposed that cohabitation must lead to a loss of association. The proposition focuses on community agreements. Many people, however, struggle to reach such agreements for various reasons. In any case, it is entirely unreasonable for a contributor to be required to pay contributions when the association is boycotted. The Progress Party therefore considers that where there is no written association agreement, the contribution shall be determined as in the case of normal association under the provisions of the Child Code. By stimulating the equal association of children with both parents, one will also prevent one of the parents from being neglected and unable to fight further for contact with their children, which is, of course, a significant loss for the children. A positive development here will also reduce the number of parents who after a while don't provide for their children. Parents who do not engage in social work/care must also pay higher contributions compared to the proposal than the parents who do. The party of progress indicates that it is an objective to ensure that parents who set up do not double pay, as they do today. Therefore, it is important that one takes into account the costs of having children and the actual days of association/care. Such a contribution scheme, based on the actual expenditure of the children, will not only lead to better willingness to pay for both parents, but hopefully also lead to more private contracts, and hopefully also to less administrative costs for the public. I note, however, that the proposal only includes the living costs of the beneficiary in the calculation basis. The Progress Party considers that either the living costs of both parties should be taken into account, or housing costs should not be part of the calculation basis at all. The Progress Party expects that both parents' housing costs are covered by the individual and thus taken out of the calculation basis. The Progress Party proposes this. The contribution determined shall not be subject to tax deductions on the part of the contributor and shall therefore not be subject to taxation on the part of the beneficiary, because the scheme concentrates on actual expenditure and shall not be a hidden consensual contribution, as in the current system. The Progress Party supports this as a matter of principle, but it may appear that in several cases it will turn out to be unfavourable and in many cases contribute to the increase in the amount of the contribution. In this context, I would like to refer to a letter from the Council of State today, June 6, confirming that, in particular, those with revenues between NOK 200 000 and NOK 350 000 will receive an increased contribution, based, of course, on normal association. If you get together, the contribution will, of course, also be reduced. After all, the costs of the children shall be borne by the net income. In this way, it would be desirable to set the contribution on the basis of net pay. However, as this may seem somewhat bureaucratic, the Progress Party believes that the right to deduct is continued until further notice. We therefore propose that: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess/estimate the consequences of maintaining the tax deduction on the part of the contributor and not to be taxed on the part of the recipient.’ Furthermore, I would point out that the maximum contribution will increase if the tax deduction disappears. I would therefore like the Government to find out the arrangements that would ensure that the maximum contribution would be compensated if the tax deduction disappeared. With regard to the Government's proposal for extra contributions for those who may have high revenues, the Progress Party will strongly oppose this. This directly violates the purpose of the cost model and is more of an income-balancing proposal. Here the Progress Party proposes that this be removed. Another important element of the proposal is the removal of transitional aid reimbursement schemes. It will promote private contracts and prevent the State from having its own interest in obtaining the contribution. In addition, the Progress Party believes that private contracts should not be subject to State review by administrative decisions, as is currently done through social security offices and collection centres. Parents must agree on an amendment or be able to make changes by the county or court whose private contracts are no longer desirable. The administrative power, which often appears to be exercised on the private discretion of the individual case handler, is a serious threat to the legal security of the extended family, not least to the children. This is where the Progress Party has a proposal. Finally, in the case of economies of scale: it is a fact that child no. 2 etc. not ‘costs’ the same as child no. 1 in entertainment. This has not been taken into account by the Government in the calculation basis. Here I would like to refer to SIFO's calculations, which show clear savings from the fourth member of the family. The Progress Party therefore proposes that SIFO principles for economies of scale should also be used for the calculation of the contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1164	The President assumes that Sandberg will also address the proposals to which he has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1167	I am now promoting the suggestions that I did not include in the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1172	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1175	The law that Odelstinget is dealing with today is very important. It concerns many people, both children and parents, and has met with excitement for many years. Of course, it is linked to the fact that today’s rules clearly have distortions and that the regulatory framework is so complicated that it is difficult to find good alternative models. Let me say that I actually believe that everyone in this room will contribute to schemes that basically have the best interests of children, and at the same time enable both parents to have both contact with the child and to provide their own living conditions. The only question is whether this good will leads to the right result today. I'm afraid the majority is wrong. There are distortions in today's legislation. There is no doubt that many contributors have rightly experienced the situation as unfair. Firstly, significant involvement should be included in the calculation of contributions, and secondly, it is reasonable that both parents’ income – both contributors and beneficiaries – should be included in the assessment and in the determination of the amount of the contribution. The so-called cost model proposed by the Government, to which the majority subscribe today, will give rise to new distortions. It was, of course, well-founded that bodies such as the Children's Ombudsman, Save Children, the majority of the Equal Opportunities Council, the National Fund and a majority of the county councillors supported an improved percentage model when the case was first sent to the hearing in 1996. Despite this, the government of which I myself was a member chose in a new draft consultation in 1999 to use only one model, namely the cost model. Most hearing bodies took this into account, but many continued to express their criticalness in using costs as a starting point for the determination of contributions. These were hearing bodies such as the Children's Ombudsman, Save Children, Equality Ombudsman, Public Family Protection Organisations and NOVA. This makes an impression on me. In addition, many computational examples show that the new scheme will be distorted. It seems that the changes that will now be adopted will make it easier for those who already have quite a lot, but will increase the loads for those who are heavier. Moreover, the most important thing, based on costs, is that the child – without me thinking it is the intention – is produced as a ‘good with a fixed price’, as the Children’s Ombudsman says. That's not good. Everything is converted into money on a cost side and an income side. The best of the child must take precedence over all of these matters, and that is the main consideration we need to ensure. If you choose the cost model, it is clear that costs vary. We know that both nursery prices, housing prices and other costs vary from place to place. In addition, the child should enjoy the level of income of parents. And I guess it wasn't just meant to make contributions based on average considerations, which I think must be wrong. As the position shows, the representative from SV, Ågot Valle, the representative from the Coastal Party, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, and I from the Central Party agree to oppose the proposed new arrangement. On our side, we are promoting proposals for an adjustment, or rather an improvement in today's percentage model, and the improvement must take place in the following areas: It is true that significant association is taken into account. It will be necessary to include both parent income in the calculation of the contribution. Assessment of eligibility is also important. The contribution must be set to NOK 0. I can't see that there is something that would prevent such an adjusted model – on the contrary, it seems both fairer and simpler than the proposal for a cost model. First of all, I believe that this will be the best thing for the child. In addition, I believe it is important to see that all of these matters are individual, and that there must also be room for considerable use of discretion, as the Norwegian Civil Service Team stressed in the hearing in the committee. In terms of proposed simplifications of tax relations, I have no objection to it. On the other hand, I cannot see that it is wise to impose a fee on the public determination of contributions and their modification. Of course, there is an advantage to voluntary agreements. The problems relate primarily to situations where there is conflict and where no arrangements are found. Then you need the help of a neutral agency, an offer, without making it a fee and thus a tax on that type of service. Then, on behalf of Ågot Valle, the Socialist Left Party, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, the Coastal Party and myself, I will address the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1202	Anne Enger Lahnstein has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1205	The representative lent hope that this would be a joyous day for those who have been waiting for a new law. And there's reason to believe that this is going to be a "day of joy" for some high-income contributors, because it's the ones who come out as the winners after these changes that will be made today. It is also quite impressive to hear the representative Sandberg who is hardly concerned about the children's situation, but who concentrates largely on the contributor, who is usually a man. When Odelstinget adopts a new model of child support, the losers are first and foremost the children, but also a large group of beneficiaries. The winnings today are the contributors with good ability to pay. Low-income contributors come down from the Government's proposal, and it is paradoxical that the situation of this group was the starting point for these new rules and this new model. So the ones that were the starting point, the ones that we had as the goal, are the ones that come out as the losers. The children are the losers because the cost model results in the children being defined as ‘a good at a fixed price’, cf. The claim of the Children’s Ombudsman. It is not taken into account that there are large variations in the bout toxins. Boutines are calculated to be the same, regardless of whether you live in Oslo or in Finnmark. Nor is it taken into account that there are wide variations in the standard of living that children had before the divorce. It is the State Institute for Consumer Research's average standard budget to be used for the calculations of the norm. In other words, children of sign parents are going to cost the same thing, no matter what they cost before, while children who live with their parents are of course going to benefit from both parents' finances. There is research-based knowledge about divorce and the situation of children following a divorce. I would like to refer to researcher Kari Moxnes, who has found out and documented that one of the reasons why children suffer from a divorce is a strong reduction in the economy of the child's household. This is one of the main reasons why divorce becomes particularly difficult. Everything in addition to a «reasonable» rate must be paid by the beneficiary. The contributor, often a father, can still have a high consumption without sharing with his children. And what could that mean for a mother who has low income initially? If the contributor re-established, has new children and is unwilling to make contributions so that the children can participate in his standard of living, this can easily lead to these children becoming what we can call ‘poornesses’. We know that there are a lot of poor children in our society who suffer, and that this does something about children's self-esteem. Then probably representatives of the majority, especially the Workers' Party, will say that fathers with good advice will automatically pay extra to their children. That may happen, but when we see the commitment and enthusiasm of organizations that organize contributory parents, there's no reason to believe that they'll be in line to give extra and voluntary amounts to their children. Today's percentage model doesn't work well enough. Anne Enger Lahnstein has also underlined this. We want to make changes in today's percentage model, because we think it's significantly better than the option being presented. Our changes in the percentage model are that low-income contributors have to be protected in ways other than today, and that a lot of association has to have consequences for the contribution. With these changes in the percentage model, we are pretty sure that it would be a significantly better model than the one that is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1224	Several governments and many government councils have been involved in the work of new legislation on contributions. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee joins the proposal now in place. I would also like to refer to the detailed statement made by the rapporteur. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee emphasises that caring for children is initially a private matter and that contributions should, as a general rule, be agreed and paid without involving public authorities. Today's legislation is based on father as a caregiver and mother as a caregiver. The proposal for a new contribution scheme is a more timely regulation, it promotes the best interests of the child, and it promotes equality. At the very least, I would like to distance myself from the presentation made by SV and the position of a clear majority in the committee. The fact that one makes this a question of a fixed price for children, I will take a strong distance from it. In fact, we believe it costs to have children even after a break in life, and it obliges both parents to do so after the breakup. I would like to start by saying that I am using ‘mother’ about the beneficiary and ‘father’ about the contributor. This isn't in the spirit of equality, but I'm doing it for the sake of simplicity. First a little bit to what this proposal is not: It is not a proposal to solve the problem of poverty in Norway. It will still be the case that some parents will need our overall social security network. Nor is it a proposal to deprive parents of their indisputable responsibility to support their own children financially. On the other hand, this is a proposal with the following objectives: Both parents shall contribute to the child’s dependability according to its financial ability, and this should be done in the fairest possible way. The rules shall encourage active care by both parents. The rules should be as unambiguous and simple as possible. The greatest possible contribution should be agreed and administered by the parties themselves. The proposal for new rules is based on the cost of having a child, mother’s and father’s income, and association with the child. The new scheme also provides for more elements to be taken into account than at present. It has been important to provide rules that have emerged at the intersection of millimetres of justice with an economically and administratively manageable system. The proposal also means that we're zeroing out some arrangements. Fathers will no longer receive tax deductions, and mothers will no longer have to tax the contribution. I would like briefly to remind you that the proposal put forward here by the Government consists of many different components and changes in child law, tax law, people's rights and advance laws, which together constitute a whole. The government also stresses the need for as cost-neutral reform as possible. We've been concerned about how the very poorest come out. I will repeat that this is not a system aimed at solving the poverty problems in Norway. Moreover, when a redistribution between people who initially do not have it too well, it often feels unfair. Before the final contribution is calculated, a father’s contribution assessment shall be carried out. Then we apply the same principles as we do under the Debt Regulations Act. I believe that the support of my own child should be a high priority expenditure. And I can hardly defend the fact that debt to others should be given priority over contributions to your own child even if you have poor advice. We're changing the rules on advance contributions. The mothers with the lowest income will receive a larger contribution advance, those with the medium income will get the same net as today, the richer will get somewhat reduced, while for the richest it will fall away. It is also gratifying to note that the Committee endorses the repeal of what is called the 30/70 rule. It is unreasonable for the State to withdraw the aid to be granted to the child. Mothers receiving transitional benefits are the poorest of the loneliest caregivers. Their children are strengthened out of this. One of the intentions of the proposal for new rules is that the contribution should be made more equitable by the calculation based on the cost of caring for a child. When introducing a new scheme, it will always be the case that some will increase their contribution, while others will reduce their contribution. However, the Government will lay down transitional rules to make the transition to new rules as prudent as possible for those who are subject to major changes in their contribution. In addition, I would like to add that it will be independent of the contribution scheme that will be the individual mother and father who decide in which way one’s own standard of living will benefit the child. Father can freely spend more money on his child. We have presented a legislative proposal that we believe provides a proper balance between fair rules and practical handling. It's a proposal with a social profile, and it'll hopefully lead to more people agreeing on their own than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1288	I would like to commend the Council of State for having been able to produce the new legislation on contributions so quickly. The first thing that came up when this case was presented was that it would take a very long time to implement this legislation – four years, as the proposition says. The Council of State has obviously pressed for this time horizon to be reduced, so now it is 1 October 2003 which is the set date. Does the Council see any possibility of a faster introduction, so that a person can put in place the new legislation before? And what does the Council of State do to ensure that this happens at least to the time that is now set, and that there are no new postponements? So I have another question. As the majority of the Committee points out, it is important that the new legislation, when adopted today, be made known to those who may separate layers, so that – which is the starting point of the Committee – private agreements are concluded and try to find out how to pay contributions, distribution of care, etc. on its own, without involving the public. That is the basic element of the new contribution scheme. What will the Council of State do to make the new rules on contributions known and to inform them so that they can be based as far as possible on the new rules if they are in the situation of separation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1295	I understand that Stortinget reacted to the implementation of the grant scheme, and that four years seems unreasonable for a long time. The department has been working on this matter, and the calculations made by the Swedish National Agency, which is the body that has real knowledge and can make the best assessment of the implementation of the scheme. We have had a very good dialogue with RTV in this case, and we have received insurance. As the representative also mentioned in his main statement, the plans are quality assured by an independent consultancy agency. Assuming that the information provided by the Ministry is correct, we believe that we can say that implementation could take place from 1 October 2003. But there is no doubt that this is a very large and complicated system. There are a lot of laws and different elements to be introduced, so of course, things can happen along the way in the process that I do not have an overview of today. But with all those reservations, I would like to say that at least I have been given the security of the review of RTV that the agency will make sure that this scheme is implemented as soon as possible. So we'll see it as positive if the date can accelerate anything. So until the last representative asks about, that's information. It is the Ministry's concern, because much of the point now is that private individuals are involved in the schemes to be implemented from 1 October 2003 and start using those schemes. After all, we do not have a system from the public before that time, so there will be little assistance to get from the public. But we hope that as much as possible will make use of this system after today, and we will also take responsibility for an information package on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1302	I will also open with giving the Council of State praise, especially in relation to the contents of her posts. I also share her impression of the representative for Rikham's posts. My reply comes in the wake of the representative of Greece. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State also emphasises that those who may now wish to enter into private agreements will be allowed to base themselves on the law even if it does not enter into force immediately. I have received many enquiries in this regard, and the question I want to ask is that the transitional benefit should not now be curtailed in relation to contributions. My question is: is it now that those who want to enter into private agreements, for example, based on shared care, 50-50, can do so with full confidence that the transitional benefit will not be curtailed, even if the contribution falls in some way away from the new regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1309	I just want to underline again what I said in my reply to the representative Trond Helleland. The size is known and now even knows what the setting says, and then one must of course also have the security that that piece will be followed up. I don't think I'm making any comments beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1314	We do well to deal with these problems that may arise in connection with such a contribution scheme, with some humility. I guess we have experience that all computational models have weaknesses and can have unintended effects. We know that from both community and other contexts, and that's probably how it's going to be here too. It is clear that many of us have become a little worried about the recent requests for miscalculations, etc., things that have made us a little worried about not least the situation of the weakest, that they will come out badly. This is also pointed out here in the hall today. I added a note to the vote – which has become the majority – that states that we want an ongoing evaluation. I believe that this can happen in parallel with the implementation of the Rikstrøgdeverket, and I would like to ask the Council of State if she would like to see this. I understand that there has been an external, independent review of this already, but there may well be a need to do further investigations in order to get this scheme as precise and as good as possible before it comes into force in one year and nine months.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1319	I would like to say that I absolutely share the view of the representative Loaned that we should approach this field with a great deal of humility, because there is no doubt that there are a lot of feelings around it – there are many who are being affected. Crime of living is the worst thing you can experience in life, and it's about the fight for love for your own children as well. There is no doubt that we can see weaknesses as we get more knowledge about the concrete impact of individual parts in this, and that is why I have said that an evaluation will be important. So we will, of course, follow this process carefully from the department, and also correct the course along the way, but I think there is reason to say that we have now adopted some main principles that must bear the new system, so it will be difficult if we start to take out some single components that will make the whole reform look completely different. But we're going to have an evaluation, and we'll come back to that at a later date, when the plan works for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1324	Twice in his speech, the Council of State stressed that there was no problem of poverty one had intended to face with this conversion. That's an interesting statement from a social-democratic government. And I wonder if you don't get a little thought about the statements and calculations that have come from the NTL, which gave the following notice in the Newspaper on 25 May, namely that the rich get a tip, while poor fathers have to pay more for their children: ‘Rich contributors, mainly fathers, may benefit from the new rules on contributions. Poor fathers are at risk of getting even worse out than they are now.» I would like to have the State Council's comment on this. In addition, the Council of State said that it had gone away with economic millimeters of justice. I believe that with these stencil-based averages of both childcare, rent, etc., you get in a situation where there are quite square rules. The NTL has also placed great emphasis on this with greater use of discretion, and I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she feels familiar with the fact that it has actually been put up for average consideration of rent in this country – whether it is satisfactory. Does the Council of State see that those who lose out on it are the ones who need help first and foremost? Finally, I want to challenge the Council of State on this with the relationship between what promotes the best of the child and what promotes equality. Mostly, I also believe that there are two sides to the same issue, but not always. And I believe that under this new contribution scheme there is a thought of shared care, perhaps even an opportunity to judge for shared care. I believe that gender equality may be a good idea, but it does not serve the interests of children at all. Could Karita Bekkemelm Orheim say a little about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1339	I'm glad to have the opportunity to answer just that question, because if it had been so that this was a scheme to sort of do something about the poverty problem, it would probably also have been that both the Center Party and the SV had put in large sums to help these groups when a lifebreak was a fact. But neither do these parties. And it's actually about you having to benefit from the situation you're experiencing in a breakup, and then we have to build on the social security network we have in our society for the groups that get out the worst. That is why I would very much like to distance myself from the fact that the Workers' Party is not now spending a large million dollars to help those groups who are experiencing a break-in, and who have low incomes, means that we are not occupied with those who are getting the worst out. We have just taken into account that the loneliest caregivers who have the most difficulty will get a lot better out of today's system. So I don't think that's the point of saying what the representative Lahnstein here claims. Then, of course, it will also be the case when we are going to present major reforms, that it will be a balance in terms of what we can manage to achieve from practical, manageable arrangements also for those who are out on the outer floor and will try to get to that in practice. And then it could be that we should have had millimetres of arrangements where we went in and evaluated the housing costs of the individual. But what the department has done is to base it on SIFO's calculations, we've done it by taking an average, and we think it's going to be done in a proper way. So until the last representative said, this with shared care and the children's needs. It's a little interesting to look at who is speaking very strongly in this debate. It is often those who have experienced a break in life themselves, and who have had the responsibility of caring for children alone. I think that what must be important to us as a political party in the time we go into, is actually listening to the children who have experienced a breakup. We need to focus more on children’s needs and not on adults’ own needs for contact with their own children – which, of course, are equally shared between mother and father.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1350	There has never been any current problem with the large amounts of million that the Council of State has now commented on. What is the matter, and that has been the matter for us, is getting a system that is fair, where the contributor pays a fair share to his children, so that the children do not have to dramatically reduce their consumption and their standard of living. That's what we're talking about. Nor do we believe that this system should solve the problems of poverty. No one's been around to say anything like that. What we have to be concerned about is that we don't make a system that creates new poor children. At least we should be concerned about that. We may be in the process of creating a system and creating a system that could bring some children into poverty – which would not have happened with the previous system. This is a proposal with a social profile, said the Council of State as well. I'm surprised she's saying. Because we've got calculations -- we can of course discuss whether they're correct, and there's probably a lot of question marks in some of the calculations -- which clearly shows that there's some bias here. Those who become the winners of this system and those who get reduced their contribution obligations – when we go away from the old system of percentage calculations and over to a cost standard – are subject to high income contributions. That's an indisputable fact, I assume. And this isn't just random, but it's a pretty systematic bias. Does the Council of State feel that it is a proper social profile for those with high incomes and high consumption to pay less, thus reducing the contribution, so that the children do not get a share in the consumption that they themselves have the opportunity to retain?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1362	I think I want to start by saying that today's system leads to very big conflicts. 40 pst. all matters are decided by judgement, nor does it take into account that father is a caregiver and mother is active. This I believe says something about a system that has clearly survived itself. Much of the criticism of current legislation has also been that the calculation of contributions takes account solely of the income of contributors and not of the needs of the child. In order to ensure that children of highly successful contributors are able to participate in the standard of living of the contributors, an additional contribution has been proposed where the contributors earn more than approx. 616 000 kroner per year. years. It will be possible today to make a greater contribution to the child if desired. But it would also be that if you had given NOK 10 000 in contributions, you would have no guarantee that your mother would spend that money on the child. We know that at last we are parents who are responsible for ensuring that we give our children the necessary resources, both food, clothing and, of course, love and other care. That's why I think there's going to be a balance between what the government can go in and direct, but we have to have a system based on the needs of the children, and that's what the government has put forward with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1369	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1372	There was a little bit of temperature in the end, it's going to replicate. I would like to thank the case-speaker, the representative of Greece, for the cooperation and for the good work he has done on the proposition. The Labour Party's proposal for rules of contribution was good, and it is in Stortinget a broad majority that supports it. There was also a large number of hearings that supported the changes. When contributors try to gain sympathy by saying that ‘the value of my contributions is about. NOK 2 million, they come to the wrong person if they come to me. To look at your own children as an expense item, I have no idea, whether the children live with mother, father, or both. For me, it's obvious that both parents are responsible for, according to their ability, caring for their own children. It's only when they can't do it in any way, that the public has to give support. Of course, I am behind the posts of representatives from all the parties behind the plurality. I only have a few comments in addition. Some people have talked about this case as the contributor says the case, as the fathers say. It is not. That's the children's thing. Some mothers will come out better, some fathers will come out better – and vice versa. The fathers who want to improve are primarily those who take a lot of responsibility and care for their children. This is nothing but fair and fair. Not all negative effects on one or more mothers may be wrong. I don't even think those who in the committee have called themselves the Yentegerilja, SV, the Center Party and the Coast Party, mean. For me, as an old equality activist from the early 1970s, it's a natural consequence of this now to support and stimulate fathers to participate in their children's upbringing in all possible ways and to stand by their demands. That's what we're fighting for, and this is where the world has progressed. That some mothers view the proposal for changes in contributions as a betrayal because they come out worse financially, or because they have to share more responsibility with father, even after the divorce or the breakup, doesn't change this for me. We who fight for fathers to participate in the world, for children's sake, for mothers' sake, but also for fathers' sake, are now facing challenges. The fathers take more responsibility and increasingly demand their rights as a result. They require longer fetal leave, more cohabitation after a break in life and a more fair code of conduct for contributions. Then we'll have to set it up. For this reason, I am proud that the Labour Party has put forward a case that many people have been waiting for a long time, and that as a grandmother of well over 50, I am in favour of these legislative changes today. On the other hand, we must be balanced and take care of both mother and father. I think the Progress Party goes a long way in speaking the fathers' case unilaterally and perhaps as uncritical as some of my fellow sisters from the 1970s have spoken the mother's case. Poor parents or parents with poor advice are no less poor when they divorce and have to cope with two households with the same money and possibly a little extra child's pension and a little less tax. Nor does this reform aim to change, as has already been said. But there are a few exceptions. In addition to the non-reimbursement of the transitional benefit in the future, which will benefit the poorest beneficiaries, contributors with income below NOK 124 000 will not pay contributions and they will not be indebted. There are probably examples of contributors not being able to cope with such low incomes, but it is not the system of contributions, but the social assistance system that needs to be organised, as for others in similar situations. There have been examples in the media from the NTL and the Alone Parent's Association that people with poor finances are coming out worse than with today's system. There might be some examples of that, but it's not the main trend. The majority of the Committee would point out that the objectives of the new rules are: ‘The child’s need for means of living shall be shared between parents according to their financial capacity and as fair and reasonable as possible.’ The majority further says: ‘The objective of this majority is to ensure that the new scheme is best suited to those with the lowest income. This majority requests that this issue be assessed on an ongoing basis and that any unreasonable responses be corrected.’;» Lifebreaks are often tough for both adults and children. Sharing a family makes it necessary to have clear and good agreements to reduce children's problems associated with a break in their lives as much as possible. But it's composed, and it's about strong feelings, different views and different needs. There are rarely simple solutions to such complicated problems, schemes that get 100 pst. support from all involved. In such a perspective, very broad support has been provided. Now it is only said that progress is at least as fast as the Rikstrygdeverket’s last option suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1404	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1407	I heard a post here instead where one was concerned to present this as if it were contributors with good income who are the winners, and that it is the children who are the losers. The committee has received letters today that it could have been very easy to read, which shows that this is not the world. Then I feel that SV goes into the trap that they look at this law that we today make, as income balancing, and not something that is the best for children. Once again, both in posts and in lines, you're concerned about who becomes the winners financially. The working party has been primarily concerned with creating a system that will make sure that the children are now, for once, the winners. Then we have to enable both parents to follow up the kids after a breakup, and that's what the new system does. It doesn't do the old system, and it doesn't do the system that SV and the Center Party are proposing today. So the SV has been very busy with the poor children. There may be reason to recall that this is not a social law, but a law to stimulate and enable children to have a relationship with both parents after the breakup. So I think SV should better cover how this system makes it possible to produce more poor children. I think that this letter also shows that it actually contributes to the opposite in many cases. Then I am a little surprised when I feel that the only party that is trying to produce the new order so that the child becomes a commodity is the Center Party. The rest of us have tried to assume that we're going to create a system that means that the children are entitled to two parents, even after a break in their lives, and we're adding up to systems that take care of the children, not the opposite. And then you see that the Center Party is trying to make this look like the kids are becoming a commodity. It'll be on their account. They're the only ones I've heard that's done it. Otherwise, the centre party was concerned that both parents' income should be counted. The model they set up will mean that beneficiaries will receive consistently lower contributions, and contributors will get cheaper away from all over the line. The Working Party has not been involved at all. That a party looked to those degrees based its policy on tabloid headlines, in this case from the Newspaper, is not a method that the Workers' Party will try to copy either. So just a little comment on the proposals that we've been making, I won't take it in a explanation of vote later. Proposal No. 1, from the Centerpartiet, SV and the representative Stolt-Nielsen, the Workers' Party is opposed because we believe that this is not for the benefit of the children. Proposal No. 2 we will ask to be sent to the Government, because we very much agree that there must be a better system of counselling and guidance after a break in life. We will follow up on this in connection with the Children's Act. That's where it has to be taken. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the same ones, of course we'll go against. Then I would like to ask that proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party, is sent, so that it is possible for the Government to continue working on it and look at various possibilities in connection with the revision of the Children's Act, so that one does not exclude any solutions. As regards proposal No: 6 about travel expenses, we don't disagree that there may be a problem, but we perceive that this is a matter of private law that the state should not interfere with. It's a little bit interesting to notice that the Progress Party wants the opposite. Proposals Nos. 7-11 we will go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1433	For the sake of order, the President will only say that when we come to the voting, the President will propose that these proposals, to which it is now referred, be forwarded to the Stortinget pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. If further explanations of vote are needed, they may be taken in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1436	The representative Reikvam, from my post, asks what is best for the child. But I have to say that I won't let that go in, because when the representative Rikvam doesn't listen to the post, he can't expect him to hear anything, because my entire post was based on what's best for the child. But I understand that when SV talks about all these contributors, as the representative Rikvam wants to call fathers, the point is that these fathers over a long time are prevented from caring for their children. The proposal for a contribution scheme now on the table means that these fathers, contributors, will have a better chance of caring for their children, i.e. for the benefit of the children. The same thing I would like to say if the so-called winners that the Rikvam representative is so very concerned about. It is the same as that which has paid double contributions for a number of years and partly very high contributions, which exceed all the costs of having children. There's also another thing that's strange, and that's that the high contributions these fathers have paid, actually have gone to the Treasury. They haven't benefited the children. That is why one of the proposals on the table now goes into the process of removing the reimbursement scheme, so that all funds go to the children, to the best of their children. But I don't expect SV to take it inwards. They will continue to treat this as a social law or as an income balancing. It must be taken in other areas, under the name of the grant scheme. The representative Ausdal Starrfelt kind of accused me of talking to fathers. Yeah, it's automatically fathers that a speaker for, when you know they're 95 pst. of the contributors, of course it will be. So thousands of fathers, as I said before, have been deprived of the possibility of caring for their children. It is a reality that there are thousands of children, between 60,000 and 70,000 children, who have not seen one of their parents in the last 12 months, much because of a contribution scheme that leads to one not being able to afford it. It is significant that in the Committee there is a certain number of women's guerrillas opposed to this proposal. These are the representatives of the SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. It just testifies that they act as they did 20-30 years ago, and you don't realize that today's forms of association are of a completely different character than they were at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1449	The President of Odelsting will remind you that it is now going on overtime, but since such a strong concept was now used, the President allows two more posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1452	After all, the representative Sandberg let the cats out of the bag when he posted about all the high incomes that pay so much, and that would finally be allowed to drop off with lower contributions. The starting point is that a child has a standard of living, a certain consumption pattern, and then after a divorce, most people will have to reduce their consumption and their standard of living. And we know from research that this is an extra strain after a divorce. Then we have some contributors who have a reasonably good standard of living and a reasonably high consumption, and our starting point is that they should share this with their children. It's the idea behind a percentage model, as opposed to a cost model, where one takes on the basis of stencil costs and then sets a norm based on it. We also recognise, as we have said, that some adjustments to today's legislation are necessary to protect low-income contributors. We're clearly saying that we have to do something about it, because it seems unreasonable. But we see no reason to add up to a system where those with high incomes are not going to share their consumption with their own children, because that's what we're talking about here. This is not social law, it's not cohesion, it's not what we're talking about, but we're just talking about how we're going to get a fair distribution of income between, in this case, contributors and the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1464	I just had to make a brief comment on the last post from the representative Sandberg. I started my post today by pointing out that I think everyone in this room is concerned about the best of the children, but unfortunately I believe that the majority is wrong. But when Sandberg starts to characterize the minority, and almost adds in its characterization that we should not be meaningful because we have lived for a while, I would say that there is the representative Sandberg completely wrong. Experience is good to bring with me in political assessments, and the fact that I have lived for a while has taught me, among other things. that you should not be naive in terms of conflicts related to what matters most to us, namely our relationship with the children. I believe that the model that the majority here advocates, which is based on diabolical costs, average costs, and where the children in a way become a cost page and a income page for both contributors and contributors, is crazy, and I think it will turn out in the future. And then I have no reason to question the motives of my honourable co-representatives, and I ask myself that you do that with mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1473	With this remark, Odelstinget concludes the proceedings on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 731]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1487	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1496	The unanimous position to be adopted today is the follow-up and amendment to the Law of 17 January 1997 No. 11th@item: inlistbox At that time, the Stortinget adopted new rules on criminal inviolability. New rules were also adopted on the special responses to custody and the transfer to forced mental health protection. Because, at that time, the Storting had doubts as to whether psychiatry and criminal services had the necessary capacity to provide for the special reaction judges in a satisfactory manner, it was decided that the date of entry into force of the law should be determined by its own law. That happens in the position we adopt today, and the date is set at 1 January 2002. This means that Odelstinget now assumes that the capacity of both psychiatry and criminal services is satisfactory or will be satisfactory when the law comes into force, so that we fulfil the law's intention to deal satisfactorily with the special reaction judges. This assumption is inevitable. In the Act of 17 January 1997 No. 11 The Stortinget adopted rules on the special reactions to custody and forced mental health protection. In addition to these, we are today adopting rules on the special reaction of forced care. This is adopted instead of the previously proposed special reaction for mentally retarded offenders who are not penalised. In terms of who is to be judged for the different specific reactions, it is roughly as follows: Forced mental health protection is the offender convicted of being psychotic or unconscious at the moment of the act, and therefore unpredictable. The need for care is highly regarded as a mental retardation, i.e. in general, persons with IQ less than 55, and for that reason cannot be penalised. Storage takes place instead of what was formerly hot. So where are those who are convicted for special reactions going to be? As a general rule, those who are subject to compulsory care shall carry it out in a professional capacity and it is important that the special reaction be carried out immediately after notification by the prosecution authority that the judgment is enforceable. The profession must be linked to a larger institution which can provide professional and administrative support. In addition, this major institution must have experience in the control of persons who may be dangerous. The financial responsibility is state-owned. In the first instance, one such subject will be established, as experience so far suggests that there will be no large number of people who are obliged to care for them. If the purpose of the judgment so requires and safety reasons do not contradict, the profession may agree with a municipality or others that part of the special reaction may be carried out there. However, the Committee as a whole would very strongly stress that the greater the recurrence risk of new crime, the greater the requirement for security measures. Yes, if the assessment body is at all in doubt as to the soundness of carrying out part of the mandatory care outside the profession by means of a specific assessment, it is not appropriate to adopt such a system. But whether the implementation is within the trade union or outside by agreement, as I mentioned, it is the state that is going to cover the expenditure. The Committee is aware of the professional disagreement revealed by the consultation opinions on who should be responsible for the implementation of the reaction, as well as the disagreement as to whether it should be carried out at a central level, at regional level or in the municipalities. But we have agreed that the State should have the primary responsibility for actions that primarily aim to secure society against serious crimes. We also believe that it is beyond the natural responsibility of the municipalities to be responsible for the implementation of a condemned response, which should be an alternative to punishment, regardless of the state of mind and the level of ability of the offender. How can society be sure that we are protecting ourselves against repeated crimes by unpredictable, mentally retarded offenders? Or ask another way: how long will it be normal to spend in a subject? The Committee considers, as the Ministry, that no standard answer to such a question can be given. There will have to be a continuous professional observation with individual assessments. Therefore, neither the normal time nor the maximum time is the current problem. Because conditions are such, good expertise and high professional quality in the assessment of risk of hazard are very important in order to avoid wrong decisions. As I mentioned at the outset, the Committee assumes that professional knowledge and expertise in this field are present and are still being developed when the law comes into force from the coming year. The question of how we can get the best possible rehabilitation of the sentence is difficult to answer absolutely. It also shows the responses of the hearing bodies which recommended different solutions. Through the suspension, we have stated yes to the possibility of implementing compulsory care outside the profession under certain conditions, as it may lead to better rehabilitation options for the sentence. Although most of the hearing bodies said something else, we see some fear that when we establish a central profession, it could lead to a flowering of difficult and challenging behaviors on the part of the individual. This is it important to have a awake eye and a listening ear for. In this case it may be appropriate to set up several disciplines for, for example: remedying the disadvantages in relation to the distance from the normal vicinity of the jurisdiction. What rights does the doomsday have? Firstly, the rights which lie in him or her obtaining the individually adapted follow-up from the profession which may provide him or her with rehabilitation so as to eliminate the risk of recurrence. Second, it may require the Court of Justice to assess annually whether the special reaction may cease. Thirdly, every three years the court shall consider the issue of termination, irrespective of whether the court has so requested. And fourth, the prosecution authority can decide at any time to stop the reaction. When the Judicial Committee now differs from that of the Int. O. No 33 for 1996-97 opposes the need for the prosecution authority to have access to judicial review of decisions requiring the transfer of a special reaction conviction from the profession to e.g. a municipality, we justify it with the opinion of the National Attorney, which we give our agreement. Care should be taken to provide the prosecution authority with a form of ongoing follow-up responsibility with regard to the safety of the implementation of the special reaction. That responsibility is and should be the responsibility of the professional. Even though the law grants some rights to those who are judged to be compulsorily concerned, it equally fully intervenes in the personal situation of the individual. When the committee follows the proposal, we assume that the legislative proposal has been assessed against the European Convention on Human Rights and found to be within it. Another change we are making today is the decision to replace existing provisions with custody. Containment is a timeless punishment imposed on likely offenders where time-limits are not considered sufficient to protect society. Contention shall be enforceable on the basis of one offence, but will normally occur by repetition of a serious offence. An overall committee stresses that psychiatry and prison services need to cooperate well in order to take the decisions that both provide the most appropriate rehabilitation services for the offender and the best security for society. The third special reaction is about compulsory mental health protection. This is condemned by a criminal who was psychotic or unconscious at the time of the crime, and thus unpredictable. In this case, too, the special reaction is to be used because it is necessary to protect society. The Judicial Committee has also assessed what can be done in relation to a group of unreliable persons who commit less serious crimes but who nevertheless are a major problem for society. We are aware that the Ministry believes that the law on mental health protection will be suitable for regulating those offenders and their situation when the law enters into force. Nevertheless, the Committee is of the opinion that persons who commit clearly socially harmful crime must not go without an offer and therefore promote proposals accordingly. When we get custody instead of insurance from New Year, we will have a transitional period where there are two schemes on one side. But it is desirable to have convictions converted into the new special reactions as soon as possible. The Committee therefore supports the proposal that the protection provided may continue until the maximum period has elapsed unless the judgment requires the protective measure to be suspended or a case for conversion to one of the new special reactions is raised. In the transitional rules adopted in Law 17 January 1997 No. 11, it appears that protective judgments issued before the entry into force of the Act will lapse within one year of their entry into force. If the prosecution authority still considers that there is a need for a special reaction, it must bring an action before the court or tribunal, claiming the condemnation of a special reaction before the warrant has been removed. The Committee agrees that conversion matters should be raised within one year of the submission of an application. However, the Committee rejects the absolute one-year deadline, nor should legal effects be attached to the omission of it in individual cases. With regard to the contents of the storage, the Committee endorses the views and proposals of the Department. The issue of parole of detention sentences has been addressed to the case rapporteur from among others. Stine Sofie's foundation. One is anxious that it will become automatic in parole, taking more account of the convicted than of society. The Committee would reiterate the need for sound professional judgement and stress the importance of a close and good follow-up from the criminal justice system to those who are subject to probation. With regard to the rules on criminal inviolability and special reactions and the parole of custodians, the Committee considers it appropriate to carry out post-control checks in order to allow the next accumulation to assess the arrangements. In addition, the Committee takes the view that there is an ongoing evaluation of the legislation and its practical implications in the agencies. The last point I want to mention from the proposition is in a completely different street than that so far mentioned, namely, the question of whether there is a need for changes in the rules of negligent rap. In 1988, Stortinget also included negligent killing using motor vehicles in Section 239 of the Criminal Code. But it was a relatively short time before one reacted that practice had led to even the slightest inattentiveness from a driver could lead to prosecution and judgment for negligent killing. The Ministry then stated that it would be primarily for the Riksadvokat to decide on an adjustment through prosecution practices. However, the lawyer said that the prosecution authority should not take responsibility for and direct such a change of course. In response to the interview of the undersigned on 31 May 1999, the Minister of Justice stated that both the Supreme Court and the Riksadvokat had given signals that practices were changing. The majority stressed in the debate that not any negligence or deviation from ideal behaviour would lead to a conviction for careful killing. But both then, earlier and later, we have underlined as an indispensable requirement for any driver that the safety of traffic requires increased attention in order to avoid serious accidents. It is likely that the use of the term ‘obtrusive killing’ is itself a challenge to the general sense of law when it is used in road accidents caused by the daily behaviour of road users in traffic. The term best fits when it is used for violent crimes that end in death. The Committee therefore agrees that, as long as there is no qualified negligence, a more striking and less burdensome term would be ‘deaths caused by negligent driving’. We support the department's considerations that a less precise law can be the way to go in this way to move towards what is the legislator's intention. Furthermore, the Penal Court should assess the care requirement of the penal code §§237 – 239.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1545	I am pleased and relieved that we are now finally putting into practice the rules for the retention of the probable, forced mental health protection for the unaccountable and forced care of those mentally retarded people who are criminal and dangerous. It's been years since we had the first investigations in this area until today. It's been more than four years since the Stortinge adopted the rules that we're now implementing. Some things have happened since the adoption of the rules. Firstly, the healthcare system has been better able to accept those who are being convicted. In addition, criminal services have developed considerably in a positive direction, and in this implementation proposal the law also has some changes that make it even better. And all of this is very good. It's pretty scary that over the years we've seen more examples of what we need in a better system than what we have today, and that we should have it in place a long time ago. We must have a much better custody of dangerous criminals, whether they are healthy, ill or mentally retarded. We need to have better custody to protect society in an even better way and have a setup that can help make people harmless when they come out one day. The current hedging system is not appropriate in this way. Besides, it's a very unfortunate two-track system we have, with punishment and security, where we say that security is not punishment. One can ask those who at the age of ten are in custody at Ila, if they don't feel like punishment. Presumably dangerous people should not be out, but they should also have legal certainty, and the new detention system will be much better. Sick people don't belong in prison. Unpredictable people should not be punished. There is no point in punishing someone who is unaccountable and does not see the consequences of his own actions or do not understand them. But they have to be taken care of, and they have to be treated. And we can do that now. It has been presented in the media as if this new regime will lead to shorter remuneration for someone, but it is wrong. On the other hand, if you continue to be considered dangerous, a person may be at risk of being stuck in a lifetime. And now it's the courts that are going to decide whether they're still going to be dangerous. The Committee stresses the importance of ensuring good competence for the assessment of people’s hazards. The case was on the Justice Committee for two and a half years before we adopted the previous rules. It shows that it was a difficult issue politically, but it was also difficult because there are many medical assessments and attitudes behind, where there were partly professional struggles, and how different attitudes were expressed. I think what we're doing now is a very good balance between the different attitudes, and a good way to achieve the overall goal. But we must not believe that we have found the fasitist once and for all. The development needs to be closely monitored, we need to draw lessons from the system we are now implementing, and make possible changes. In the process, vision has already changed. For example, in the previous round, the State’s health oversight was very skeptical that the municipalities should be responsible for the care of mentally retarded people. Now we have had good experience with security convictions for which the municipalities are responsible. Now it's better to go to hearings and be sceptical about having a central professional unit. We've made a change to the condition to be sentenced to custody. We say it's no longer going to be a repeated crime, it keeps you doing something cruel once, and there's a risk of repetition. We are also looking into the area of whether several species of crime that are unpredictable should be able to provide the basis for mandatory care, and ask the Government to take a closer look at it. I also think there's one more thing that needs to be reviewed when we've had some experience, and it's a security valve for the grey zone people – those who can't take responsibility for their own actions because they have a serious mental disorder, but are not psychotic, those who are mentally retarded to a lesser degree, or those who have a combination of these. We wanted by the Labour Party at the last round, when we adopted the rules, to have an optional rule of impunity. Unfortunately, it did not go through in Stortinget. But I think, once we've gained some experience, that there has to be a theme that we're going to review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1564	I was a member of the Judicial Committee in the previous period when the Law of 17 January 1997 adopted new rules on criminal inviolability and on the special reactions to custody and transfer to compulsory mental health protection. The Committee was at that time seriously in doubt as to whether the psychiatry and criminal services had the necessary capacity to carry out the tasks of dealing adequately with the individual convictions. The size therefore decided that the date of entry into force of the Act should be determined by its own law. The majority did not adopt the Government's proposal in Ot.prp. No 60 for 1995–96 on the special reaction forced care for mentally retarded offenders who are not convicted. Instead, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to submit a new bill based on a state responsibility. In the Central Party, therefore, we are very pleased that the Government has presented a legislative proposal in line with the majority in the United Kingdom asking that mentally retarded people who cannot be punished be severely condemned for the special reaction and that the State should be responsible for those who are sentenced to forced care. It should be noted that after the proposal, compulsory care can only be maintained if the condition of the recurrence risk is still met. The judgment and the other persons entitled to appeal shall be subject to annual judicial review as to the cessation of the special reaction. The legislative proposal includes provisions that strongly interfere with the personal situation of individuals. The centre party is also pleased that the profession should be linked to a regional safety department in the field of mental health protection. It is important to stress the importance of linking the profession to a larger institution which can provide professional administrative support and which has experience in the control of persons who may be dangerous. The Committee has joined the Ministry's proposal for changes to the rules on custody. Contention is a timeless punishment to be imposed on suspected offenders. There is reason to note that detention should be judged mainly only by reoccurrence of a serious crime and that reoccurrence should not be a condition. It must also be possible for custody to be convicted on the basis of one offence, since it cannot be excluded that some likely offenders may have shown such a dangerous behaviour even after committing a serious crime that, for the protection of society, it must be possible to react with custody if the time-limit is not considered sufficient. The changes to the rules on custody do not involve any extension in relation to the applicable rules on hedges. The Committee points out that the special reaction to the transfer to mandatory mental health protection can be attributed to a criminal who was psychotic or unconscious at the moment of the act, and is therefore considered to be unpredictable. A prerequisite for judging this reaction is that it is necessary to protect society and that the offender has committed or attempted to commit certain types of serious crime. There must also be a nearby risk of recurrence of crime. In this respect, the Committee took particular note of the consultation opinion delivered by the Trom Police District on the offences which could be used to condemn this particular reaction. The Committee has noted that unpredictable persons who commit less serious crimes can also pose a major problem for society. It is very gratifying for me that a unanimous committee shares the view of Trom's police district that society needs protection also from less serious crimes committed by unpredictable, especially if the otherwise criminal activity becomes very painful, extensive and intense. The Committee points out that the Ministry considers that the law on mental health protection is better suited to regulate these situations. While the Committee does not disagree with such an assessment, it is important, in the Committee's view, that persons who commit clearly socially harmful crimes should not be left without an offer. The Committee therefore wishes to see a safety valve against this in the law. In the Central Party we are pleased that a unanimous committee proposes: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess a change in the penal code, in order to make it possible for unpredictable offenders who commit clearly socially harmful crimes to be judged more than at present to be subject to mandatory mental health protection or to mandatory care.’ This clearly opens up an opportunity to meet the strong wishes of the Trom police district. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1597	The Act on the entry into force of the Special Reaction Reform from 1 January 2002 sets the stage for long-term legislative work. As early as 1957, the Ministry of Justice asked the Council of Criminal Affairs to consider proposals for the revision of criminal law rules on custody and custody. The investigation came in 1974. Both the Criminal Felony Commission and the Special Reaction Committee have then assessed the issues in their investigations. The Ministry of Justice advanced the case to the Stortinget in 1994 and it led to a decision in the Stortinget in December 1996. The size decided that the time of the law's entry into force should be determined in its own law, and that is such a law Odelstinget treats today. This history suggests that this area is not a simple matter. With the new special responses in place, more offenders will be assured of an adequate response, while respecting society’s need for protection. The reform will end the two-track system of penalties and safeguards for likely offenders. The content of the detention shall be different from that of the prison sentence. The health service is required to accept illegitimate offenders and the so-called ‘asyl sovereignty’ is repealed. The Courts of Justice shall regularly examine the basis for the special reactions. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposal to remove the condition that a suspected criminal must have committed or attempted to commit a serious crime in the past, in order to be sentenced to detention. It cannot be ruled out that even after committing one serious crime that violated the life, health or freedom of others, some offenders have shown such a dangerous behaviour that it should be possible to react with custody. With custody, a time-indetermined punishment is introduced. Even after the law in force, offenders may remain in custody, but security is not considered to be punishment. A sentence on prison for 21 years and for 10 years is converted according to the transitional rules for detention. A time-frame shall be provided for the storage. The framework laid down by the Court of Justice for the first time may not exceed 21 years but may then be extended for up to five years. Securing can be carried out in prison or in freedom. Prison detention is to be held, while parole will take care of the needs of freedom protection today, namely a gradual transition to a life of freedom where there is reason to do so. However, precisely because a detention warrant is based on the risk of reoccurrence of serious crimes, it is of course absolutely central that safety becomes a crucial element in assessing both whether and how a possible release to trial is to be carried out. Criminal specific reactions are invasive sanctions. They should therefore be reserved for the most serious offences. I still understand that even less serious crimes committed by unpredictable offenders — where punishment cannot be used — can be a major harm to society, especially where the otherwise criminal activity is particularly extensive and intense. I think therefore there might be reason to consider how this problem should be solved, as it is also indicated in the proposition. I therefore understand that the Stortinget asks the Government to consider in more detail whether the penal code should be amended in such a way that it is more likely that a special reaction could be condemned. However, I point out that changes to the Law on Mental Health can also be an alternative to the assessment. In order to avoid that the rules on hedges and the new rules on special reactions should run in parallel for a long period of time, specific transitional rules were proposed in the proposal for existing hedge judgments. The Committee has proposed amendments to those transitional rules to ensure that any breach of the one-year period proposed by the Government does not lead to the cessation of the protection. I agree with the Committee's proposal, which combines a rapid transition to the new system of non-intentional protective measures. There is no doubt that there are major changes in our criminal response system Odelstinget today seems to be going to adopt is going to enter into force. It's going to be exciting and challenging for several parts of our justice system. We must be prepared to follow this carefully and make changes if we see that there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1634	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the centre party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1643	In the proposition, the Ministry proposes a revision of the Criminal Procedures Act. 27 on resumption. A separate Commission is proposed to deal with requests for resumption of criminal proceedings. The Commission shall be responsible for examining the facts and legal aspects of the case and for deciding whether to allow resumption. If the Commission decides to reopen the case, the case shall be re-examined by a court other than the court seised. The Committee is pleased that the Government proposes a recasting of the readmission mechanism. Such an amendment would, in the opinion of the Committee, strengthen the overall legal certainty of society. The Committee would stress that the courts can also make mistakes with the result that innocent people have been convicted, and would refer in particular to the Liland case. The Committee would stress that the proposed system should not be perceived or developed as an additional appeal mechanism for criminal proceedings. It must continue to be the ordinary judicial system that assesses the issue of penalties and the conditions must be met in order for resumption to be permitted. The Committee would point out that during the examination of Document No: 8:64 for 1993-94 took the following decisions: ‘Document No. 8:64 for 1993-1994 on the proposal of the Grand Duchy representatives Jan Simonsen and Tor Nymo for the establishment of a right of resumption, shall be forwarded to the Government for distribution and pronunciation.» [[court of appeal]] The Committee would point out that, at the hearing of the above-mentioned proposal by several hearing bodies, the Ministry of Justice was invited to examine a fourth option in which an assessment of the establishment of an English-style resumption commission. The Committee is pleased that this option has been investigated and that an independent proposal for the resumption of criminal proceedings, as provided for in Ot.prp, is being made. No 70 for 2000-2001. Today, it is the court that has passed the judgment under criticism, which first of all has to decide on the question of resumption. The Committee considers that in some cases this may in itself give rise to doubts as to the background to the rejection of the request for resumption. It is therefore essential, in the Committee's view, that another body or other court examine applications for resumption, rather than the court which initially referred to the judgment under criticism, as it is today. There is reason to stress that the judiciary must of course always do its utmost to avoid any innocent convictions at all. The Committee points out that in the 1990s there were several major issues in which resumption led to full expropriation, including: in the Redseth case and in the Liland case. The Committee is therefore very pleased with the fact that the Government in the points of the Proposition. 7 reviews the evaluations following the examination of the Liland case, and considers it very important that the recommendations and investigations made as a result of this work be followed up as soon as possible. The Committee notes that the Department does not consider that there are any decisive constitutional concerns related to the establishment of such a Commission, and considers this to be justified. The Committee would stress the need for a resumption commission to work independently and without anyone’s permission to instruct the Commission in any way in its work. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Government proposes to organise the Commission as an independent management body. The Committee then considers that there are arguments in favour of giving the Commission a slightly greater opportunity to examine cases on its own initiative than those raised in the proposal. The Committee would therefore ask the Ministry to consider the need – and the desirability of – to extend the Commission’s competence to investigate matters on its own initiative at a later date when the new scheme has been put into effect. The Committee would stress that the recovery decision itself must always be based on the request from convictions, unless the Commission decides to reinstate a case in which the convictions are a deceased person. The Committee considers that the composition of the Commission should be broad and is therefore satisfied that the Ministry proposes that two of the Commission members should not have a legal background. The Committee is also pleased that the Commission Secretariat will be strengthened, inter alia, by: investigation competence. The Committee considers it important that the President of the Commission is given a real opportunity to direct the day-to-day work of the Commission and to direct the work on the issues. The Committee considers that this is best ensured by the full-time involvement of the Commission’s chairperson. The Committee shares the Ministry's view of the second paragraph of Section 100 of the Criminal Procedures Act on the Use of Defenders. The Committee points out that the criterion for covering expenditure on the defence under the provision is that specific reasons must be given. The Committee stresses that although the Commission has a responsibility for guidance, there may be a need for a defender. The Committee assumes that the Ministry does not base an excessive interpretation of the current provision on covering the costs to defenders of recovery proceedings. The Committee considers this to be one of the points which it is important to follow up on the post-control. However, the Committee has noted that the majority of the hearing bodies do not favour an ordinary right to review and that the arrangements both in Denmark and in England are that the Commission’s decision is final. It must also be taken into account that the cases have previously been dealt with under a three-institution scheme. The Committee therefore supports the Ministry's assessment that the same rules of procedure for the review of the Commission's decision should apply as for the review of other types of administrative decision. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal that, in the cases where resumption is permitted, the Commission shall refer the matter to the Lawyers' Court, which, after consulting the parties, shall decide on the equivalent court to which the case is to be dealt with. The Committee agrees that the General Court should be able to decide that an equivalent court other than the neighbouring court should be able to deal with a case where there are particular grounds for doing so. The Committee considers that a post-control or interim evaluation should take place no later than one year after the Commission has started its work, so that any deficiencies in the form of resources may be corrected immediately. In addition, the Committee considers that a broader evaluation should take place after three years of work and that this evaluation should be submitted to the Stortinget with any proposals for changes if the evaluation clearly identifies shortcomings and/or circumstances that should be changed. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government is now briefing on the examination and follow-up of the further work related to the experience of the Liland case. The Committee considers it very important that the weaknesses identified in the Liland case result in concrete measures that improve rules and practices in order to seek to prevent similar murders in the future. In the Committee's view, there is a great deal of talk about the need to record the sound of criminal proceedings and to meet the Ministry's evaluation of the current trial system on 1 August 2001. The Committee is very pleased that a separate investigation has been carried out on forensic experts in criminal matters. The Committee points out that experts have an extremely important and central role in criminal matters and does not ignore the fact that the influence of experts is increasing as criminal cases become more extensive and complex. It is therefore very timely that an investigation has now been carried out to address the role of experts, and the Committee calls on the Department to give high priority to the follow-up to this investigation. The Committee has also noted with satisfaction that an amendment to Section 438 of the Criminal Procedures Act is proposed in order to allow the Supreme Court, in special cases, to award non-target costs if a criminal case is reopened. The Committee notes that during the examination of the Liland case, there was a weakness in the fact that those who assisted Liland, who played a decisive role in the recovery of the case, were not able to recover their costs. This is now corrected. Finally, I would like to point out that there has been a printing error in the statutory decision on page 15 of the setting. The first sentence of Section 395 of the Criminal Procedures Act shall be the first sentence of the second paragraph. Furthermore, the word ‘other’ in the second sentence of the third subparagraph shall be moved to the second sentence of the second subparagraph. Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to commend the Ministry of Good Political Crafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1697	This case represents a very important legal step in the legal state of Norway. I am very pleased that the Government has received broad support for its proposal to set up its own Commission to deal with the request for resumption of criminal proceedings. There is no doubt that a separate resumption commission will strengthen the overall legal certainty of society. Although the starting point is, of course, that there are people who are guilty of what they are accused of, we have no guarantee that innocent people cannot be judged. In this respect, it is enough to refer to the matters on which the rapporteur has already referred. Today's treatment ends a work that has been going on for several years. Already in 1990, the Workers' Party, Jørgen Kosmo, promoted a proposal to extend the right to resume criminal proceedings, and the representatives Jan Simonsen and Tor Nymo proposed in Document No. 8:64 for 1993-94 to establish a right of resumption. The Ministry of Justice has examined and worked on several options for dealing with recovery cases and who is to deal with the request for recovery. I perceive that both Jan Simonsen and Tor Nymo believe that the present proposal is even better than what they themselves proposed. It is of great importance for the confidence of the Resumption Commission to work independently. The Commission shall therefore be organised as an independent administrative body which cannot be instructed by the Government. The Commission is entrusted with a primary responsibility to identify the facts and legal aspects of the case that are requested to be re-opened, in order to decide whether the case should be re-examined. It is important to stress that the Commission is not a court; it shall deal with the recovery request itself. Another very important aspect of today's proposal is that a case which has been decided to resume is not to be dealt with by the same court which first dealt with the case, but by a secondary court, so as to ensure the best possible independence of treatment when the case comes up again. Finally, to a very important point, namely the relationship with the jury system: since a jury decision is not justified, it is not possible later to know the actual and legal conditions upon which a jury decision is based. This makes it difficult to assess whether there is a reason for resumption. This is why it is a very important step to take when a majority in the Committee is now asked by the Government to assess whether it is possible to amend the penal code so that it can be clarified, either within the current jury system or through the use of co-judicial law or otherwise, more clearly than today, on which legal and actual matters of guilt are based. We are looking forward to such an assessment, because then I think you'll get an even better basis to consider a resumption. With regard to the other points in the matter, I refer you to the rapporteur's thorough review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1720	This is an important day in Norwegian criminal history. Today, when we set up a commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings, that is the end of a long process. This matter has been on the map for a long time – ever since the beginning of the 1990s, as we heard. The question of resumption of criminal proceedings was also a priority task for the Bondevik government, and both former Minister of Justice Aure and former Minister of Justice Dørum spent a lot of time investigating the case. Why have we been so concerned about this? The Norwegian legal system is good – we have to say that. But the Norwegian legal system is not flawless. There are no other areas of society either. Where there are people, mistakes will be made – small or large mistakes, often or rarely, that may vary, but mistakes will be made. We've also seen that. Here, it's enough to mention the Redseth case or the Liland case, as the rapporteur did. Therefore, we must have a safety net that can capture the cases where errors have been committed. Today's system makes it a certain degree. The study carried out by the Ministry clearly shows that 14.3 pst. all requests for resumption were accepted. A total of 40 cases were brought to an end in the legal system during the period 1992-1999. However, the system we have had so far has been subject to some criticism. It is the same court as the judgment in the case, which is to rule on the request for recovery. The Judge or Judges who delivered the judgment may not take part in the decision as to whether the case should be reopened. Although many judges are able to distinguish between cases and persons, it is not to be avoided that criticism of such a scheme arises. For some, it will be difficult to have confidence in such treatment. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of having a system of confidence in the population, and therefore it has been right to make changes to today's system. Some might say that since the questions of resumption of criminal proceedings have been discussed since the early 1990s, it is high time that we got a decision now. Of course you may think so, but we would also stress that precisely because you have done so many rounds in the case, the result has been good. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposed system – with a resumption commission to address the issues – will be a neat and orderly system, which will clearly strengthen the legal certainty of those who come into contact with our judicial system. Of course, we have not forgotten the care of the victim. There may be a burden on the victim if the case is brought up again for consideration when everyone thought the matter was settled. The Committee therefore supports the proposal that the victim be given the opportunity to comment and to have access to the documents of the case, both during and after the closure of the case. The consideration of the victim and the burden that a resumption of the case may impose on him or her must be balanced against the importance that the right person has been punished for the act. No one has earned that the wrong person is punished for a crime, not even the victim in the case. We need a certain safety net, and then it is important that this safety net is as fine-masked as possible. That is what the Christian People's Party believes in this matter. I do not go into any detail about the organisation of the Commission and the procedure itself. The rapporteur has done so in a thorough manner. Part of Ot.prp. No 70 deals with the Liland case. That case is a striking example of not everything going well in criminal matters. Changes in criminal proceedings have been made in the past to correct some of the biases revealed in the Liland case. With today's decision, most of the weaknesses in the system are corrected. I have no illusions that we will not get crazy decisions in the future too, but it is my hope that today's changes will improve the situation quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1741	There is reason to commend both the ministry and the Committee for the important change being made today. It is important to create a code that can capture errors that are committed. Nevertheless, despite praise, we have two adjustments in relation to the Committee's position. The Committee's proposal is that only opinions of the UN Committee on Human Rights may lead to the resumption of proceedings if it finds that the content of the judgment or the proceedings are contrary to a rule of international law by which Norway is bound. The Ministry of Justice has considered including opinions from other UN committees, the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination and the United Nations Committee on Torture, but has concluded that they will not include this in the law. The Ministry justifies this because they have little experience with these two UN bodies. We believe that this should have been incorporated into the law, and there are several reasons for that. We have signed and are bound by the conventions from which these two committees have emerged. If Norwegian law and judgment are contrary to the Torture Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention, much can also be said to mean that Norwegian law does not comply with the conventions we have ratified. Moreover, it is true with modifications that we do not have experience with these two committees. The Torture Monitoring Committee has repeatedly stated that parts of Norwegian custody practices, with a ban on letters and visits, are contrary to the Convention, so we have heard from them at random intervals. The Committee on Racial Discrimination has gained experience from the fact that the Committee has repeatedly criticised Norway for not persecuting racist opinions under Section 135 of the Penal Code. So we have experience with these two committees and we know pretty much how they work and how they work, so that should be the basis for including in the law that their opinions should also provide the basis for resuming a case. We believe that the prosecution authority should be more active in relation to Section 135, and by acting in a balanced and credible manner by increasing the use of Section 135, there should also be the possibility of resuming such cases, from a point of view of legal certainty. On this basis, we believe that this should have been included in Section 407 of the Arbitration Act and Section 391 of the Criminal Procedure Act. On that occasion, I would like to make a point of calling for proposals. 1 and 2, which are distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1759	The representative Reikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1762	I'm going to be pretty short. There is no point in going into the details of the matter, because I think the case rapporteur has explained quite carefully to them. I just want to say that the Progress Party has been working every year to prevent the murder of the judiciary, commit legal certainty and, of course, to remedy any damage that may have been done to innocent people who have been convicted for something they have not committed. That is why I, together with the representative Nymo, proposed a system of my own resumption court in 1993. It was not adopted at that time, but it initiated a process which has now been completed with this proposal for a Resumption Commission. Now, when I take the floor, it's really just to emphasize that I'm very pleased with the outcome of that initiative and the process we started in 1993. Although it has taken some time, the result, that is, this resumption commission, is significantly better than what we originally proposed, that is just a separate resumption court. I therefore feel that today we can set a finish line, and that we have got a result that we can be proud of. I would like to thank both the Minister of Justice and others who have worked on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1771	I also join those who are positive that we have obtained broad agreement on the resumption commission, and I also think we can afford to give some praise to both Tor Nymo and Jan Simonsen, who have been among the initiators of the matter before us today. It is gratifying that in this way we are now strengthening the legal certainty of those who have been found to be unjustly convicted, and there is also reason to stress that the hearing bodies have consistently been very positive to the proposal made by the Government. However, there has been one exception with regard to the views of the hearing bodies. The case concerns the Association of Judges, which pointed out that it would be very difficult for a Resumption Commission to assess the evidence used in the previous paragraph, where the judgment at issue was given by a jury. It was also Jan Petter Rasmussen from the Workers' Party inside. I therefore think it is gratifying that we have reached a broad consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that, in this context, we will re-assess the jury system. It gives us an opportunity to increase legal certainty for everyone. I would also like to remind you that it is not unnatural when you change the law for one part of the legal system, that you also look at whether it is correct to adjust other parts of the law accordingly. That's what the Storting has done before. In 1989 the criteria for using a jury were changed. The change was then made that it would only apply to serious crimes with a possible penalty of more than six years, and when the two-institutional system was adopted in 1993, the committee that had investigated the two-institutional system said that they clearly recommended the termination of the jury system. There have been reasons to spend time, and there have been reasons to protect systems that have worked well so far, but it's a pleasure that there will be a majority to determine if we can get an even better system. It is also gratifying that we are presented with proposals in the State budget for the autumn to make audio tape recording in Norwegian courts a permanent arrangement, and this has also been agreed unanimously in the committee. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is the last debate in which this Committee on Justice participates, and it is therefore nice to take the opportunity to thank each member in particular. It's been four very nice years. I would also like to thank the Council of States for their very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1788	Getting innocent convicted in a criminal case is an accident for the victim, for the family and for the rest of society. It is therefore important that the process be organised in such a way that the least possible is wrongly judged. This makes it necessary to examine the case at all stages of the case. An example of this is the rules of evidence. No one can be judged unless it is proved beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty. Even though you might have more right judges with a slightly more modest requirement for proof, there is a broad consensus that, after all, it is better for some guilty to go free than for innocents to be sentenced to punishment. At this point, the rules are the way they have to be. However, although the evidence is subject to strict requirements and the rules are restoratively designed, it is not humanly possible to avoid errors. For this reason, it is important that the rules on resumption should contain any errors. Today's rules are not good enough at this point in my view – and according to Odelsting's view, as I understand it. The main weakness is that the responsibility for informing the case lies with the courts themselves. The person seeking resumption must prove himself/herself that the conditions of the law are fulfilled. This includes, inter alia: the more vulnerable the jurisdiction is, the more difficult it is to get the case reintroduced in practice. In several of the cases that have been reopened recently, the court has had the assistance of private firefighters to get their case resumed. Another weakness of the rules is that it is the same court as the original judgment, which shall also consider the question of resumption. Such a system may create ground for suspecting that peer considerations affect the decision. This could weaken confidence in justice, whether or not there is suspicion. These weaknesses make it right, in my view, to change today's rules. It must become more socially responsible than before to expose false convictions. Responsibility for the information provided by the case should be transferred from that judgment to society. In addition, it is important to create a distance between the body for the purpose of criminal conviction and the body for the assessment of the issue of resumption. It is in order to take account of these considerations that the Government proposed that requests for resumption be decided by an independent commission with independent responsibility for the disclosure of the case. So I would also like to take a tribute to those who in previous years have also been concerned about making changes to these rules. I am pleased that the Justice Committee has largely joined the proposal, which involves a historic change in Norwegian criminal proceedings. The broad consensus underlines the importance of strengthening the legal certainty of those seeking resumption of criminal proceedings, and in the light of the criticism of current rules, this is an important signal to send. I have taken note of the Committee's proposals on the sound recording of criminal cases and the Committee's views on the jury system. I will come back later to Stortinget about this. Moreover, certain aspects of the jury system are already under assessment in the department, as part of the work on speeding up criminal proceedings. In addition to the proposal to set up a resumption commission, the proposal also contains other proposals which should be mentioned separately. In principle, the proposal to extend the right of resumption to infringements of Norway’s obligations under international law is of major importance. This is a significant extension, and the extension goes in two directions, both breach of Treaty-based procedural rules and the opinions of the UN Committee on Human Rights shall grant unconditional right of resumption. I have noticed that SV has made proposals to also include the United Nations torture monitoring committee and the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination. I would like to stress, as it says in the proposition, that the government was in doubt at this point, but thought that it should not be extended. I would also like to stress that the question here is not whether opinions of the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination or of the United Nations Monitoring Committee on Torture can provide a basis for resumption, but whether they should give an unconditional right to do so. Even today, their opinions may provide a basis for resumption. There's already an extensive extension we're doing. The question is whether we should go even further. There is no doubt that Norway is bound by the conventions monitored by the Committee on Racial Discrimination and the Torture Monitoring Committee. The question is whether we should be able to equate the decisions they make in individual cases, whether the composition, the procedure and the assessment of the individual case are such that we can equate it with those of the international courts or the Human Rights Committee. So our assessment is that we should have some more experience of this and that we need to have more experience with the individual complaint system, before we conclude that an unconditional right of resumption should also be introduced from these two committees. I stress that there must be a preliminary assessment, which we should come back to after the experience has been gained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1817	The next speaker is Jørn L. Stag, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. He's so far the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1820	It is an honor in itself to be allowed to keep the last article in a case of justice from the Judicial Committee for the period 1997 to 2001. The case rapporteur had a thorough and effective statement on the matter. It gives me better time to point out things that I'm very concerned about, and it's about the possibilities of audio tape recording in a courtroom. A pilot project on sound recording of main criminal proceedings shall be completed by 1 August of this year and the project started in 1997. An overall committee proposes that the Storting should ask the Government of the State Budget for 2002 to report on the system of sound recording in courts and to propose, if appropriate, a permanent system of sound recording of main proceedings in criminal matters. I am of the opinion that without an offer of audio tape recorders in the courts of Norway, legal certainty could be weakened. All national courts should have the possibility of initiating legal proceedings, not just some specifically selected ones. There is also a wider use of the recording of judgments in court. Neither in the Orderud case nor in the Baneheia case, audio tape recordings have been used in court. Audio tape recordings will make it easier to reveal errors in court. It could make it harder for the defendants and witnesses to change explanations. Some witnesses may be intimidated or threatened with false explanation or suddenly have poor memory. In cases that have the label ‘organised crime’, it seems that this is not unusual. Many witnesses give false explanations without actually having consequences. There's got to be tougher judicial responses here. In the last 10 to 20 years, an unculture has developed that causes the actors in the court to give false explanations because they know that they hardly risk anything, despite the fact that it is criminal to lie to a Norwegian court. In the long run, you can't have a culture that accepts lies in the straight line. It is therefore necessary to introduce new measures, as called for in several contexts by the Association of Lawyers. It is therefore necessary to record the negotiations both in criminal matters and in civil matters in the long term. Hopefully, many people will hesitate to lie if they know that everything they say is recorded. False explanations and untruths should be reported to the police so that the case is investigated. It must simply be more unpleasant to lie in a Norwegian courtroom. This is a contributing factor, for example: to vote in favour of the IVB recommendation. As former co-judgments in the lordship and city law, I have a great deal of understanding of the request made by the majority of the committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, that it should emerge more clearly than it does today, on which legal and, not least, factual aspects the decision on the debt issue is based. Finally, I would like to stress that the proposed readmission mechanism should not be seen as being or developing into an additional appeal mechanism for criminal proceedings. It must continue to be the ordinary judicial system that assesses the issue of penalties and the conditions must be met in order for resumption to be permitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1837	I'm sure the President will have to disappoint the representative, Mr. Stang. However, he does not get the last word in this round. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1842	Now things are going to happen later today, so I hope there will not be a long struggle to have the last word in the matter. Only a comment on the SV proposal available here. The Minister of Justice has justified why one does not extend § 407 of the Law on Disputes and § 391 of the Criminal Procedures Act to the United Nations Torture Monitoring Committee and the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination. This is, as the Minister of Justice said, carefully assessed, and in doubt one has not included it in this round. I think you should consider this very carefully, and all that you do now is to be carefully considered along the way. An evaluation shall be carried out after a period of three years and this will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. With this topic being discussed so carefully in the message, I would ask the SV to turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1851	Now it looks like I'm going to get the last word in a debate in a case of justice, and that's nice. Our proposal is really very good, and it's too good to be downhearted. I take note that we are unlikely to receive any support for this proposal as it has been discussed in depth in the committee, and as I do not want it to be down, I am turning it into a transmission proposal. The Minister of Justice's argument that we have to gain experience, I don't have a great sense of it, because we have a lot of experience and we already know a lot. Which new experience and recognition we can get to, I am therefore somewhat uncertain about, but I ask her to take it with her and seek new knowledge and new experience, and then I expect her to come back at a later opportunity with a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1860	The representative, Mr Rikvam, has then proposed a transfer proposal. The representative of Rikvam was also given the last word in this debate. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 740]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1877	The odelsting shall then vote in cases Nos.1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e1884	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1–5, by Are Næss on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6-9, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Progress, in reply to proposal No. 10, by Annelise Hoegh, on behalf of the Right and the Left Party, the proposals No. 11-13 and 17, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 14, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 15, 16 and comprehensive proposal No. 18 by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, enriched proposal No. 19 from Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2080	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party, in the case of §21, fourth paragraph, 25 and 32. Paragraph 32 now removes the second paragraph, as it is no longer applicable after paragraphs 3 to 4 are dropped. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third sentence of the fourth paragraph of Article 21 shall be replaced by the following: in health enterprises, at least half of the members of the board of directors elected by the business meeting shall be related to the geographical area within which the enterprise is located.The third sentence of the proposal for a bill shall become the fourth sentence.§ the second sentence of the second paragraph of the second sentence of the proposal shall be replaced by the following:This shall not apply to a member of the board chosen under §§22 or 23 and to the representative of the user appointed under §21 §32 shall be replaced by the following:§32 Sale, transfer and closure of hospital activitiesThe hospital activity cannot be sold, moved or closed without the consent of the Storting.’ At the same time, there will be a vote on enriched proposal No. 18 to Section 21, second paragraph. This proposal has not been submitted for regulatory time, but the President proposes that voting be taken up. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 21 shall be replaced by the following:’.One of the members of the board of directors of the undertakings shall be appointed by the national patient organisations. When appointing the Management Board, the owner shall take account of candidates nominated by the Board of Governors set up under Section 35.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Central Party have announced their support for these proposals. The President has understood that this also applies to the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2119	Proposal No. 14, from the Advance Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Health business law, etc. Paragraph 53(6), second and third sentences of the first subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following: The State of regional health enterprises takes over all property positions related to public dental services.Third, fourth and fifth sentences of the proposed act become the fourth, fifth and sixth sentences.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2137	The following proposal from the Right is put to the vote: Proposal No. 11 with the exception of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 22 and the proposals No. 12, 13 and 17. Proposal No. 11, from the Right, then says: «Health business law, etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:The title of Chapter 2 shall be replaced by the following:Chapter 2 The responsibility to provide specialist health services§ 6 shall be replaced by the following:Section 6 The responsibility to provide specialist health services to the Member States to ensure that the necessary specialist health services are provided by government agencies in the health regions.To fulfil this responsibility, the regional government offices shall conclude agreements with public hospitals and other services for the purchase of health services at a quality and price that is sound.Chapters 2 to 15 of the Proposition bill become Chapters 3 to 16, and Sections 6 to 54 of the Proposition’s bill shall become Sections 7 to 55.’; Proposal No. 12, from the right, says: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:§ 2-1 The responsibility of the State for the specialist health service of the Member States shall be the overall responsibility of the public for the provision of the necessary specialist health service; Member States shall ensure that the population is provided with the necessary specialist health service within and outside the institution, including:1. hospital services2. medical laboratory and radiological services3. emergency medical response; and4. emergency medical services: ambulance and ambulance services by car and, where appropriate, by boat. This responsibility shall be exercised through regional government offices, which conclude agreements with public-owned hospitals or other service providers, as set out in: Act on Health Companies § 6.The Ministry may impose in regulations requirements on services covered by this Act.Proposition's proposals for §§2-1b, 2-1c and 2-1d become §§2-1a, 2-1b and 2-1c. The current section 5-5 becomes section 4-2 and shall be replaced by the following:§ 4-2 Medical DistributionThe Ministry may determine each year:1. number of new specialist posts within each medical speciality that can be established by health institutions and health services receiving grants for the operation and maintenance of health enterprises or regional government offices,2. the number of new premises for agreements for the operation of private specialist practices which may be established by each regional government office; and3. the number of new specialist medical positions in each medical speciality which may be established by state health institutions and health services.The number of new positions and contractual shelters referred to in the first subparagraph shall be indicated as an overall framework for each health region divided by the different medical specialities. The Ministry may lay down the conditions for the award.The Ministry may by regulation lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of this provision.The current Section 6-6 becomes Section 5-2 and shall be replaced by:§ 5-2 Reimbursement requirements against the State Regional Office in the patient's region of residenceTreatment and care expenses shall be covered by the State Regional Office in the patient's region of residence, cf. Section 5-1. For the implementation of mental health protection, other expenditure is also covered by the State Regional Office of the patient’s region of residence. The State Regional Office of the patient’s region of residence shall cover the costs of treatment and pampering:1. Where there is a right under international agreement to travel abroad in order to obtain the necessary treatment. This also applies when other Norwegian authorities have advanced the amount towards the non-resident service provider,2. when expenditure on hospital treatment abroad is financed by public security under the National Social Security Act § 5-22. Expenditure shall be covered to the same extent as if the treatment had taken place in Norway.The Ministry may provide for the calculation of expenditure as referred to in the first and second subparagraphs and may fix the same reimbursement rates for one or more groups of institutions. Expenditure on laboratory and x-ray services shall only be covered by the State Regional Office of the patient’s region of residence, as specified in paragraph 1. § 5-1, if this results from an agreement between the regional government office of the region of residence and the provider of such services. The State Regional Offices shall make known the medical laboratories and the X-ray institute with which they have agreed. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the financing of laboratory and x-ray services, including transitional arrangements.The current section 7-4 becomes section 6-3 and shall read:§ 6-3 Obligation to provide guidance to local health servicesHealth professionals employed in state health institutions covered by this Act or receiving grants from regional government offices for their activities shall provide advice, guidance and information on health matters required for the public health service to perform its tasks by law and regulation.» Proposal No. 13, from the right, says: ‘Section 2-1 of the Patient Rights Act is replaced by the following:§ 2-1 Right to necessary health careThe patient is entitled to immediate assistance.The patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the local health service.The patient is entitled to the necessary healthcare from the specialist healthcare service to be provided within an individually prescribed medically justified period. If the patient does not receive treatment from the specialist health service within the time limit, the regional government office shall ensure that the patient has access, within the same cost framework, to treatment at another public or authorised private health institution in the state or abroad on public account.» Proposal No. 17, from the Right, says: «Health business law, etc. Paragraph 53(1) shall be replaced by the following: The first paragraph is replaced by the following:From the entry into force of this Act, the State has, in the case of regional health enterprises, the right and obligation to take over all property positions linked to public enterprises necessary for the specialist health services, somatic health protection, rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, ambulance services and public measures for drug addicts organised under the Special Health Act. The country of regional health enterprises takes over all county-owned property positions linked to university and higher education functions. The takeover shall include all rights and obligations attaching to the activities taken over. Law of 6 April 1984 No. 17 for the consideration in the event of the ownership of immovable property, shall not apply to the acquisition.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2268	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right, in the case of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 22. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 22 shall be replaced by the following:In health enterprises, the Management Board shall have at least seven members, one of whom shall be appointed by the patient organisations when the employees have representation in relation to the second paragraph of Section 24.’; The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2286	There is a vote on the amended proposal No. 10, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The fourth paragraph of Section 51 of the Health Enterprise Act shall be replaced by the following:In the event of the cessation of activity in enterprises or of the cessation of the use of buildings or property for hospital purposes, the latter shall fall to the county or, if the county has been abolished, the municipality. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2306	Proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Right and Advance Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «Health business law, etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:§ 32 Sale of hospital activitiesRegional health establishments and/or health establishments may not sell hospitals which have been authorised under the law on specialist health services, etc. § 4-1, without the consent of the Storting.§ 43, first and second subparagraphs, are replaced by the following:Entrepreneurs may own all or part of activities providing specialist health services which are organised with limited liability. Where several undertakings hold activities providing specialist health services together, the activities may be organised as a partnership or under the company law or as a limited liability company.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. Paragraphs 4 to 1 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The assessment of whether the authorisation is to be granted may focus on whether professional reasons justify the recognition of the health institution or healthcare, whether the health institution or healthcare is covered by plans developed by the regional health undertaking as defined in the third paragraph. the law... on health undertakings § 34, and on the services to be provided to patients, appears to be sound.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2692	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2710	After the proposals for this paragraph have been dropped, the President has understood that all parties are now supporting the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2713	President! No, right wants to vote against that paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2720	The president has misconceptions. But after this preparation from Annelise Høegh, we will vote on Section 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2723	President! The same applies to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2730	All right. It's supposed to be over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2759	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2781	The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they are moving towards the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2792	As Section 35 has now been rejected, the President will ask for Odelsting’s permission to make the necessary changes to paragraph shifts and paragraph referrals. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2881	President! We want to go against § 43.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2888	The President then changes the voting arrangement so that we vote over the suspension regarding section 36 cap. 8-10, and §§ 37-42 and §§ 44 and 45 of Chapter. 11th@item: inlistbox We will return to Section 43 after this vote. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they are moving against the position under the referenced paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2904	We vote for Section 43. Right together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they are going against this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e2928	Here it has been distributed a rich proposal, proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party, which replaces the position. This proposal has not been submitted for regulatory time, but the President proposes that voting be taken up. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposal reads as follows: «§46 National Audit Office's controlIn regional health, health and wholly-owned subsidiaries of such undertakings, the Riksaudition has the right to require the information it deems necessary for its control, both from the Executive Director and from the Management Board and the statutory auditor. In so far as it deems it necessary, the national audit may itself carry out studies of the undertaking's economy, productivity, achievement of the objectives and effects on the basis of the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. When the cooperation under Section 42 is established, the National Audit Office has the same right of access and information as the company receives or can obtain from them. The Parliament may also lay down rules on the control of the Riksaudition.The Court of Auditors shall be notified and shall have the right to be present at the business meeting and the corresponding meeting of wholly-owned subsidiaries.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3422	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3457	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3523	The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3762	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3765	President! How far did the president go now? Right has announced that we will go against § 4-2 – I did not hear if the president went so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3774	The President has a very good overview of the voting system, so we'll get back to Section 4-2 after this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3777	All right!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e3838	Here the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4113	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4136	The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4253	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Does the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left wish to vote against? – It is confirmed by Major Are Næss.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4277	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4284	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen. the proposals No 5-11, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The President will first refer to the proposals. 1 and 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to continue to work on the current percentage model as a basis for the calculation of child contributions. The following principle is used: The substantial amount of association gives the right to reduce the contribution. Where the beneficiary benefits significantly better than the contributor or the contributor has a low contribution capacity, contributions may be calculated on a discretionary basis by taking into account the contribution capacity of the contributor.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative on a low-threshold offer where families in crisis as a result of a break-up may receive financial advice and guidance in relation to conflict management.’ The President also refers to the proposals Nos. 5, 6 and 8-11 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make an in-depth assessment of the provisions on divided residence when the Children’s Act is revised.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide several alternative models for the collection of travel expenses for journeys between parents’ homes.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government not to include the accommodation costs of the beneficiary in the calculation key for the calculation of child contribution.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess/estimate the consequences of maintaining the tax deduction on the part of the contributor and not to be taxed on the part of the recipient.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw Section 12 of the draft regulation on the determination and modification of the foetal stock.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to base SIFO’s ‘major operating benefits’ on the basis of the calculation basis of the contribution’. These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4409	There is an aberrant proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on children and parents, the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 54 shall be replaced by the following: The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen have indicated that they oppose the third sentence of the second paragraph in the Committee's position. It is therefore only right to vote on the proposal from the Progress Party to the first, second and third paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4433	It shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4474	The third sentence of the first subparagraph is supplemented by an aberrant proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on children and parents, the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 54a shall be replaced by the following: As a general rule, the proposal shall be reduced for written or public-determined association, where such association is significant.’ In addition, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen have announced that they oppose the first sentence of the first paragraph, and it is only voted above this sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4494	The third sentence of the first paragraph of the vote is then replaced by the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4505	It is then voted over the remainder of the paragraph and the sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4585	There is an aberrant proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1 of the Act on Contribution Advances is replaced by the following:The purpose of the contribution advance is to ensure that children receive a certain minimum maintenance contribution from the public every month.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4611	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Twist People's Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4639	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen have announced that they oppose the second sentence of the first paragraph and the second and third paragraphs. It shall be weighed first above the said paragraphs and sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4695	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4730	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e4739	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5560	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5569	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5582	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5589	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward the proposals. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law 13 August 1915, No. 6 on the procedure for initiating proceedings for disputes shall be amended as follows:Article 407, first paragraph, point (c) of the first paragraph. The introductory phrase of point (a) shall be replaced by the following:7. when an international court or the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Torture Monitoring Committee or the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination has found that:’;» [[Court of Justice of the European Communities]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Law of 22 May 1981 No 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: § 391(1). The introductory phrase of point (a) shall be replaced by the following:2. when an international court or the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Torture Monitoring Committee or the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination against Norway has found that:’;» [[punishment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5610	The proposals have not been particularly effective here today. We don't want the proposals down, they're too good for it, so that's why we only have one chance, namely to draw the proposals. It's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5615	Rolf Rikvam has drawn up proposals No. I and 2 from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5905	Before voting, the President will refer to the corrections made by the rapporteur in Section 395: What is now the first sentence of Section 395 of the Criminal Procedures Act shall be the first sentence of the second paragraph. Furthermore, the word ‘other’ in the second sentence of the third subparagraph shall be moved to the second sentence of the second subparagraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5914	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5923	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5936	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06-lower.ana.ud748e5945	There is no record.
