ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e26	The representative of Ola D. Glötvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e29	I am going to make proposals on behalf of Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself to make changes to the State budget for the year 2000 under the heading. 2790, Item 72 Sickness treatment abroad may be disposed of under certain conditions for medical treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e34	The representative Trond Giske will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e37	On behalf of Vidar Bjørnstad and myself, I would like to propose the creation of a national knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e56	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a reply after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e67	That was a very good statement made by the Prime Minister, and I would like to reaffirm that the Labour Party supports the policy pursued by the International Coalition. It is claimed that military action will subside and lead to increased recruitment to terrorism, but there are no points in history that this kind of inhumane force will receive more support if firmness is shown and reversed. On the contrary, it's if they see that they can achieve something, that they get blood on their teeth and increased recruitment. No one likes bombs and acts of war, but the alternative is that the humanitarian disaster we've seen in Afghanistan is allowed to continue. It's a cross of thought that you didn't hear anything from those who are now opposed to bombing when four million Afghans were driven away, and the civilian population was hanged in large numbers at the football stadium in Kabul. But the military actions only make sense if they are followed up. Never before has it been more necessary for the international community under UN mandate to adopt a broad strategy. Never before has the concept of 'humanitarian intervention' been more meaningful than at present, and has been more required than in this case, a broad strategy which requires international military presence under the UN mandate, a comprehensive humanitarian aid, the establishment of a civil regime in the country, and the provision of long-term economic assistance. And it is precisely this broad strategy for peace that Norway was said to give priority to working on, when we took a seat in the Security Council almost a year ago. I said it was a very good statement, but I want to add that I am amazed that the Prime Minister did not touch the Middle East in his speech here. The terrorist networks seek refuge in countries that have collapsed and are themselves controlled by warlords, drug lords and gangsters. We've seen this in many other places in the world, including in Sierra Leone. This terrorist network under bin Laden originates in the Middle East, but it is seeking refuge in Afghanistan, a country that has collapsed completely, and has until now been ruled by the Taliban, which is no ordinary government at all, and has also not had full control of the country. The terrorist network originates in the Middle East, especially in Saudi Arabia, a country that has imported the symbols and luxury of the West into its own upper class, but nothing else, a country where the majority of the population live in poverty, among others. because half of the women are not allowed to work or are allowed to drive a car – they are hardly allowed to go out on the street. It is this social situation in many of the Arab countries that leads to an increase in terror, and I want to add, also leads to the conflict between the Palestinians and Israel. The state of war that has been in the Middle East for so many decades hinders the necessary political and economic renewal of the region. And if you're talking about something nerding under terror, it's in my opinion the Palestinians' lack of freedom. Bin Laden has never done anything for the Palestinians, but the social situation that exists in the Middle East leads to his being joined. Other terrorist organisations are also endorsed because the Palestinians lack freedom. That's why I hope that the new government will, as the old one did, order that the international community also interfere in the Middle East. There's no other way, because we see that this terror is now affecting us all. Therefore, the international community must intervene and say that we can no longer live with this. You have to make sure that the Palestinians also get their own state. That's perhaps the most important thing we can do to prevent terror from growing intrusion in the world. Because that's where the whole nucleus of this lies, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e84	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e87	I agree with Thorbjørn Jagland when he underlines the close link between the Middle East crisis, the situation of the Palestinians, and the impact that terrorists à la bin Laden have the opportunity to appeal against. I think, however, that Thorbjørn Jagland is probably quick to establish that there is no backside of the medal that we now see, when he says that everyone can see that it's firmness and turning back that works. There is no one who today has an overview of the acts of war we have seen in Afghanistan, which have increased recruitment to fundamentalist environments, and which they have put in place in the long term for increased terror. But we know that in some of the countries that are now among the allies of the United States, for example. Saudi Arabia and Turkey, elementary violations of human rights are an important reason why many can be drawn in a fundamentalist direction. I myself was also involved in the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. What I want to challenge Jagland is: In what way did his own government take up the situation when it came to human rights, the need for democracy, the fear that lack of democracy could lead to extreme environments, with Saudi Arabia – and with Turkey, which is another example – when they put themselves in government? And in what way do they now believe that the current government should address the kind of situation that could increase the fear of terror in the long term? The second is that the Bishops' Meeting has, among other things: agreed that a special session should be held in the United Nations against terrorism. Such special sessions have been held before, for example: as regards the situation regarding the rights of children and the fight against AIDS. If it becomes a special session, it means that you have to prepare and commit in a completely different way than if it is addressed in other forms of the United Nations. Will Jagland and the Labour Party support such an idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e98	At first I must say that I did not at all confirm that there are no back pages of what is being done. It's mostly the case, but the problem is all the backsides that exist by not doing anything. There is a lot to say about the history here, but at least one can say that the backside of the fact that the international community has done nothing in Afghanistan other than provide humanitarian aid – which has been quite large on the part of Norway for several years at least – has led to this humanitarian disaster. This is actually a very good example of the need to do more of what the UN Secretary-General called for at the UN Millennium Assembly: humanitarian intervention when it is seen that a civilian population to the degrees suffers because of their own leaders. But that's not what we're discussing right now. Now we're discussing, what are we going to do in the future? There are many back pages of what we do, many unfortunate things, but it's even worse to sit and not do anything. As for what we did with regard to the human rights in Saudi Arabia and Turkey, I can say: I was myself in Saudi Arabia in winter and met the entire leadership there, and that was the first time Norway took up human rights with Saudi Arabia. We brought it up right in front of the leaders of Riyadh. I came directly from Ankara, where I had also taken up the human rights situation plus a large number of individual ships in Turkey. So it's been picked up. And I hope you will continue to discuss and discuss the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. As far as the UN Special Session is concerned, this is the subject of the General Assembly. The Security Council has had its own meeting. If it might be necessary to have your own special session, well, you'll get to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e111	First I find reason to thank and compliment the Foreign Affairs Committee's leader and that the Labour Party has been tidy in relation to such situations if now has doctors lead. Both in government and in opposition, it is important in such situations as we now have, that there is a broad political platform for the government that is always there. There I would like to give full praise to the Foreign Affairs Committee's leader and to the Labour Party. What made me ask for the word for a line was the small section that the Foreign Affairs Committee had on the Middle East. In the throne debate, the Prime Minister did well to have just had talks with both Sharon and Arafat, and we also saw at Arafat's visit here in Norway that it was working for peace in the Middle East that has been strong in Norway in several governments, continuing. Therefore, there is no doubt that a solid effort has already been made to carry on a completely necessary work. There are two more comments I would like to make in relation to that. One is that it is obvious that human rights are important in the Middle East. And then there's also reason to remember that one of the problems in the Palestinian territories is that President Arafat has to a little bit of make institutions that make people there think they've somehow got a share in what they thought they'd get involved in. It is the one piece – in addition to the fact that the course of action of Israel in the new government has, of course, resulted in the same. The other thing I would like to ask the representative, Mr. Jagland, is, when he says that it must be a Palestinian state, is it something we are gathered about, but is it the way I assume that I am thinking that it must be done in relation to a negotiated solution where all parties are in a way and can acquire ownership of such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e124	I just said that I was a little surprised that the Middle East was not affected in the presentation, because there has been a lot of discussion about what is the cause of exactly this terror we see here. I, for my part, believe – and I think there are many others who do – that it has its background in the Middle East situation, and an overall strategy to overcome this terror must mean peace between the Palestinians and the Israelis. I fully agree that what Lilletun said about the human rights situation and at all events about the situation in the Palestinian territories. But it highlights something important, namely that a war situation in which this area has really been around almost all of the post-war period, leads to a lack of political, social and economic development, and it then puts a lid on major underlying problems. That is why it must now be in everyone's interest to bring about a peace that can lead to political and social development. With regard to this with a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, it was the basis of the Oslo agreement to negotiate a solution. That's why we have, among other things, distanced from violence, violence on the Palestinian side as well as violence on the Israeli side. A solution can only take place through negotiations between the two parties. But I think the international community now needs to put a stronger pressure on the parties in the area, plus the establishment of an international presence in the area, at least to monitor a new round of negotiations and a truce. I also think it is absolutely necessary that the international community assume a responsibility to guarantee a Palestinian state, while guaranteeing the Israeli state. There can be no freedom for the Palestinians without Israel being guaranteed security – and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e133	I believe that the representative Jagland is very quick and very sloppy in view of the fact that what has now been done is wise for the future. So this is an area of the world that has been under siege by war and civil war for many decades. Since the Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan, this has been a forgotten corner of the world with violent assaults on the civilian population and a major humanitarian disaster. Those who have now done acts of terrorism, bin Laden and these other Mujaheddin soldiers, were recruited by the United States in their time because the main enemy to be struck back at that time was the Soviet Union. And that time it was debatable just this: what did it do to recruit a few Muslim soldiers when the big fight was about to end that cold war? Similarly, we are now in danger of doing something that could lead to a new kind of terror in the long term. We actually don't know anything about this. But what we have had the greatest fear of in connection with the acts of war that have now taken place in Afghanistan, in addition to the humanitarian situation inside Afghanistan, has been: what is happening in many other countries in the region, in many other environments where many of bin Laden's arguments have echoed, where one can now see that the United States is the great enemy and is engaged in the fight against Islam? That is what the bishops have argued when they have protested against the war and demanded a bomb stop. That is what many Aghanistan connoisseurs have put forward. Many of those who have been concerned about this region are those who are now engaged, those who did not forget, but who tried to get the rest of the world to be interested in what actually happened in Afghanistan. That's what they've been pushing forward now. They fear a new situation where the world forgets Afghanistan again, where they are left to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e142	I can't see that I've been careless about what's done. On the contrary, there's every reason to ask what's going to happen, but it's just that one line has to be selected. I must remind you of what the UN Security Council has said both before and after 11 September about bin Laden. I must remind you of what the NATO Council did on 12 September. I must remind you that this has broad support in the international community. So if SV now asks the Norwegian government to change its line, it is a rather dramatic matter. I wonder if SV in a situation where they, for example, had been in a government – since that is what is the goal of SV – could stand for such a line. I don't think that would have been possible. The UN, the international community, has decided on a line. We're a member of NATO that supports this line, and we have to try to back it up below. We see that it may be opening up a new opportunity in Afghanistan, but I added in my post that it will not lead to anything good if the international community does not now take full responsibility for what is going to happen further. Now, if you just let Afghanistan sail its own seas again, we're not a step closer to any solution. Then these warlords, drug lords and criminals will continue to rule the country. That's what the international community can no longer sit and watch. Everyone has to see that the current warfare has opened up an opportunity for the international community to actually do something, and that is what I think Norway should continue to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e156	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e160	First let me commend the Prime Minister for an excellent presentation related to Afghanistan, and also the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for his contributions here, which I thought was good and ‘to the points’. I fully support what was said. The situation in Afghanistan is changing from hour to hour. In fact, as we meet here, there are significant things happening in Afghanistan. Developments in recent days have shown that the military effort in Afghanistan has produced results, regardless of what someone is trying to claim. We can continue to expect that we may only be at the beginning of the matter. And still it will be that we have to work to catch and quiet the terrorists in Afghanistan – bin Laden and his network. However, we have come a long way. It has become harder, much harder for bin Laden and his network to operate undisturbed and protected from Afghan territory. This opportunity has been an important factor for bin Laden and the al-Qaida network to carry out their actions around the world. International terrorism is a factor in undermining the society that we want both nationally and internationally. If we are to continue to be able to rely on an international legal society, on peace, on stability, on predictability and on international cooperation, we must fight terrorism, fight against its rawness and its total contempt for people with a different view than they themselves have. We have lived with terror of various forms for a long time, but on 11 September this year we experienced a dramatic escalation in brutality. Osama bin Laden and his network took with cold blood the lives of several thousand completely innocent and defenseless people. Opinions from bin Laden afterwards show that the attack was not just an attack on the United States, but that he looks at everyone else who has a different opinion than himself, as opponents whom he has the right to kill. It is a global world that has made a common cause in the fight against terrorism. This work is firmly anchored both in the UN Security Council and in the Main Assembly. The United Nations Charter also has clear wordings relating to the right of defence against attacks. Effective counter-terrorism requires a broad range of instruments. Of course, not only will the military attacks stop terrorism, but it is equally obvious that we do not stop the network to bin Laden and push this up and put the responsible ones to the test, well – then we still have a world of terrorism. At the same time as military operations, there is a wide-ranging struggle with other means. The construction of a worldwide alliance against terrorism is crucial. Intelligence, investigation and measures to halt the flow of money will be important to limit the possibilities for terrorists to carry out new actions. In Afghanistan, we must be prepared to help rebuild a functioning society based on the different ethnic groups in the country. Of course, the main responsibility for this work lies in Afghanistan itself, but of course it should also be that we should help others to build this society further. On the preventive side, it is important to continue work to combat poverty and develop democracy and respect for human rights worldwide. However, it is naive to believe that we will succeed in this if we do not take the terror seriously, and if we do not have the power to clear up the terrorist group in Afghanistan. Terror undermines the ability to live a normal life and to work for a better world. The work for democracy, for human rights and for economic development must be based on a functioning international legal order. Of course, when international leaders are assembled to solve global problems, they must be able to be safe. It must not be the fear of cooperation because terrorists can use the site as their first goal. If we are to succeed in what everyone wants, namely to create a better world of rights and democracy, the international community must function. Then we must not be threatened by a terrorism that we can risk destroying everything we want to build. If we are to succeed in this, we must show firmness. I am pleased that the majority in the European Parliament has done so, with a view, for once, to go to direct attacks on terrorism, although the instruments, as I have stressed several times, must be more than just what we see now in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e184	There is no reason to believe that there is no full consensus in the Storting about combating international terrorism. But the question is what means international terrorism should be combated. In an interview with Der Spiegel on 15 October, former U.S. security advisor Brent Scowcroft stated that it was through peaceful means, civilised measures were able to do something about international terrorism, while war acts were most likely to increase recruitment and lead to new acts of terrorism. But as a measure of opinion in the United States, it would work well. I note that Nilsen emphasises the need for international cooperation, which can, of course, be a way of combating international terrorism, by nations cooperating on civil measures both in terms of purely intelligence, and in terms of law and judgment relating to international terrorism. There are also examples of success. You can mention Lockerbie, where they were handed over to the terrorists and were sentenced to a Scottish court in the Netherlands. The same is true of the attacks on American embassies in Dar-es-Salaam and Nairobi. So civil action is absolute alternatives. But when Nilsen so strongly stresses the need for international cooperation, how does Nilsen feel that the US has not followed up its financial commitments to the UN, has not ratified the ABM agreement, has not supported those who would put power behind the non-proliferation agreement on biological weapons, has not followed up the non-proliferation agreement on nuclear weapons, after they have ratified it, has not supported the agreement on the establishment of a permanent war criminal court, and has not supported the Kyoto Protocol? These are examples of the fact that the United States itself is moving towards international agreements that could just help secure the world community and make it a better place to be. Will the Right be involved and contribute to the exercise of pressure on the United States to follow up on these kind of international agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e191	It is true that SV has been the party that has been against bombing in Afghanistan. It's impossible to know what that would have done, but I think that if the world community had followed the SV's intentions and thoughts, bin Laden would be safe in Afghanistan. His network would be as strong as before. I ask myself if we had had a safer world. I think the answer to that is obviously no. What happens down there has its negative sides. None of us like to drop bombs. It's not like I belong to a group of ice-cold, older men who don't have the heart for this. Of course, we all see the facets that lie there. But the question is, what is the world society going to do? How are we going to build a safe world together? 42 pst. by the inhabitants of Afghanistan are children. Isn't it also a task to make sure that through this thing we establish a system of governance, a democracy, at least some form of democracy, and develop Afghanistan so that these people can meet a better world than the world bin Laden gives this society? It's an international task to take care of. And then another thing: it's not like this is an action from the United States. It's the world community that has decided to do this. It has been adopted by the United Nations. It has been adopted in NATO. It's the world society that's been taking action against the terrorists. The United States is part of it, but it's not a U.S. action alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e200	I noticed that Nilsen was not close to trying to answer the question I asked. Instead, Nilsen mixes two completely different discussions. One is the question of how to combat international terrorism, what kind of instruments can we put in, what kind of civil action the world society has to use to do something about international terrorism. That debate mixes Nilsen with a debate on how to create democracy and peace in Afghanistan. If what Nilsen and Right were concerned about was creating peace in Afghanistan, why haven't you been involved in that issue in the five years since the Taliban regime took over? Why don't you get involved in the situation in Saudi Arabia, which is very similar in many ways, where women don't have rights, where we see the population being oppressed, where democracy is being trampled on in every way? Why is it that the Right defends that such a country should be an ally in the fight for democratic rights? This means that you lack credibility in relation to what you're really saying to fight. If it is the case that the Right is going to regroup the line and now join and fight regimes around the world that are fundamentally undemocratic, SV will be the first party to support them warmly in it. But what you see here is that you just have an engagement when Western interests are threatened. Otherwise, you do not actually get involved in the countries where it is undemocratic rule. As far as the Middle East is concerned, one should expect that Nilsen could also be quite clear here with regard to the establishment of the Palestinian State, and that he could be quite clear with regard to the situation in Saudi Arabia. But these are things that Nilsen doesn't say at all. Now, probably the term 'hypocrisy' is an unparliamentary expression, so I'm not going to put it into practice, but it must be possible for the Right, when you say that you're occupied with democracy in different countries, actually to be concerned about what we see the United States do now, that you don't care about international agreements just to create democratic solutions in the different countries in which Nilsen says that you are also in the Right to create democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e211	It may well be that Ballo believes that in many ways I did not answer the question. I replied to it in my opinion, because I actually believe that this is the essence of the whole thing. It is simply a question of an international legal order, of whether it should be maintained, of whether we should have a forum where we can all meet to discuss different instruments that we want to put into practice, whether we should be able to do it together in a safe place, so that we can jointly solve the problems. I agree that there are many problems in the world. I think it's a crazy characteristic that Ballo gives of the Right. I believe that in many areas, in the right, we have shown a real commitment to what has been said. Finally, this boils down to whether you have a world society that has forums where we can get together, which is safe and secure, and which allows us to solve the problems together and do what we can to build democracies. It's a slow process, it's a bit ahead. But my point is that what we see in Afghanistan, and which SV in many ways has been opposed to doing something, is precisely the consequence that the international legal order is threatened. And that was the point. So here you can discuss details and points that could in and of themselves be important, but in many ways it's a little derailment of the debate. Because what we are discussing today, in connection with the Prime Minister's statement on Afghanistan, is what we can do. I think it's important to get there, precisely because I think it threatens my and yours, and not least threatens the future of our children. It's about how we're going to feel in the world, whether we're going to have a safe place to live. So these terrorists we have to take, no matter what SV means!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e220	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e223	First, I want to begin by commending both the sitting and the resigning government for the way in which the situation after 11 September has been handled. The presentation by Prime Minister Bondevik last week is unusually clear, and the Progress Party has no problem at all in supporting the work done by the official Norwegian team in cooperation with our allies. Terrorism against the United States on 11 September shook us all in its brutality and wickedness. Words became poor, the impressions were overwhelming and shocking. Our children suddenly got a new word in their conceptual world: terror. With the backdrop of the tragedy, work started to free us from terror. The United Nations adopted clear resolutions on counter-terrorism, adopted Article 5 by NATO, and put the whole alliance behind the United States. We experienced solidarity and fellowship in the face of the world of terror – this time represented by Osama bin Laden and his networks under the protection of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. With wide international support, the United States and the United Kingdom went to actions against the Taliban regime to try, by military means, to crush this regime and the terrorist network hiding in Afghanistan. Of course, it was not a simple decision; no one wants war. As a result, the Taliban regime was given more opportunities to resolve the situation. They chose to ignore the demands of one so to speak, the world as a whole. As soon as the military operations started, the demand for a halt in the actions came, permanently or temporarily. I wonder about this attitude, this deficient willingness to want to clean up evil and terror. Too often evil has been ruled out, too often we have seen that the world community has failed to react by assault and terror against its own and other countries' populations. Much has been overlooked, many have been forgotten, the world has not always stood up to fight for the oppressed and those who are struck by war. But now it happens, now the world has taken its stand and gone to action, to concrete actions to end terror and a anti-human policy. And then you get criticism, criticism to crush a regime and terror network that the entire democratic world condemns. Alternatives to bombing and military action are called for. Yes, I would like to – but what was the alternative in this case? There is talk of a desire for a political solution. Overall, there is a pious and good desire to talk, discuss and negotiate, a desire for an agreement that ensures that the Taliban ceases to be so much Taliban, and that Osama bin Laden will be kind, or for example. sitting under house arrest in a place suitable for him. Such policy solutions have been tried before in history. Even the worst dictators have been brought with them on both the promise of peace in our time and non-aggressive agreements. Unfortunately, such assurances did not give peace, it did not provide security for minorities, it only led to even greater room for action for men of evil intent. When we've chosen to support the actions against the Taliban, it's not because we think it's convenient or easy, but because unfortunately we don't see any alternative, and because history has taught us that not to turn down evil where it turns out so raw and brutal as in this case, is to expose both its own and others' populations to insecurity and uncertainty. The Taliban would be unhappy if we had stopped the bombing and said that now we're going to negotiate. Perhaps we had even received concessions – on paper. But would we be safer from the being of terror? Would the people of Afghanistan have been helped? Would the millions who fled from the Taliban regime be encouraged to go home? No, we would have achieved nothing but postponement of the problem and maybe created an even bigger problem. Bombing could help with humanitarian aid, it's claimed. Yes, to some extent, it is clear that bombing is not beneficial in performing relief work. But anyone who has an in-depth knowledge of the situation in Afghanistan says that it is the Taliban and not the bombing that has been the biggest problem in order to bring out the humanitarian aid to a population that is really suffering. And they've suffered a long time. You can get the impression that their suffering started only when the bombing started. Unfortunately, there are many years of war and not at least a few years with the Taliban regime that must blame the difficult humanitarian situation that exists in Afghanistan. The humanitarian problems were almost forgotten by the world community. Now they've been lifted as one of the most important priorities for both the UN and many relief organisations. 5.5 million people are affected by food shortages in Afghanistan. The needs are great. Fortunately, we experience that the world is setting up. Norway also contributes actively, and we have granted extra 200 million. NOK for emergency aid. The progress party wanted to go even further. Now, however, we are giving the Bondevik Government the opportunity to extend yet another helping hand by making a claim of 500 million in the budget negotiations. kr in emergency aid to Afghanistan. While in the last round we linked the help up to the UN, this time we are open to discuss about relief organisations such as the United Nations. Red Cross, Save the Children and the Church's Emergency Aid should be included. A lot has happened in the last two months. We now seem to experience that the Taliban has lost control of much of Afghanistan and has been driven away. If they can and will continue the war, it's too early to say anything about it. But in any case, this gives new hope to Afghanistan, while showing that the strategy that the United States and other allies have stood for is working. Many questioned whether bombing was the right thing to do, if it would be useful. We now see that the bombing has worn out the Taliban forces in fillets, and that they have seen need to evacuate from most cities. However, even with the Taliban out of the Kabul government offices, there are major challenges to Afghanistan in the future. Not least, it is now important to support a government that can as far as possible bring together and stabilise, because there is a need for peace for the population of Afghanistan now. 22 years of almost continuous war, have set their mark, not least in the minds of men. No one shall underestimate the task of creating permanent peace and stability in Afghanistan. This could require long-standing international presence at several levels, including military. We cannot allow ourselves to forget Afghanistan again and then leave extreme groups like the Taliban with the opportunity to take power. We know that it's now working on bombs in the United Nations to find the basis for a government that can include many groupings, and give the peace that's so important. We must support all good efforts in this regard. The rapid progress of the North Alliance has been a mixed blessing. Of course, they have a self-interest in dominating the situation and making sure that they themselves are a prominent actor in a new government. We strongly regret the fact that not the North Alliance, as well as other actors in Afghanistan, are complying with the Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War. This must be denounced and, if possible, punished. At the same time, it's nice to see the joy of life that's now unfolding in Kabul. This shows that there is now hope for better times on the part of the population. We hope with the people of Afghanistan that this is right. Because it is first with a good government in Afghanistan and in the absence of people like bin Laden that we can restore security, both in the United States and in the rest of the democratic world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e262	We in the SV agree that the Taliban regime is very oppressive, not least to women. But we cannot accept the fact that in the fight against a highly oppressive regime that supports terrorists, we choose to ally blindly with regimes that as much as suppress their own people and at least we in the SV will contribute to the emergence of terrorism. We are many who ask ourselves the following questions: Is it unreasonable to demand that other regimes, and especially the regimes that we ally with by day, change their methods and attitudes towards our own people? Is it okay that some of our closest allies in the fight against terrorism are regimes that contribute to the emergence of terrorism? Is it wise not to make demands on e.g. Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Pakistan that they too should show respect for fundamental human rights? Should we not try to push forward democratization processes that turn the sense of demise of large populations into power-sharing, into representativeness? China and Russia are countries that have greedily seized the opportunity to combat what they claim is terrorism. The same is true of Israel. In our view, the so-called fight against terrorism by these countries contributes to the opposite. Several regimes in the Middle East and in Asia with which we are now allies allow in practice no opposition. Saudi Arabia is a dictatorship that systematically executes and tortures, and we all know how they treat their women. I think that there is a bad bismach attached to this struggle, and I have very little understanding that at one moment, when it seems opportunistic, you lift the flag of human rights and democracy, while at the next smooth leave you will not point out the same breaches. Does not the Progress Party also agree that the fight for human rights and democracy must be central in any case and that it is reasonable to imagine that oppression and abuse of power, regardless of the country in which it may occur, could trigger exactly the terrorism we all want to combat?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e273	Of course, there is a violation of the population and the suppression of human rights in many countries. We have in no way stated that it is isolated from Afghanistan and the Taliban regime. The work for better human rights is something that has to be ongoing, and of course we have to prosecute oppression where it happens. At the same time, I seem to hear that the United States is running a policy that encourages regimes that violate human rights. I'll take a strong distance from that. And I would also like to ask whether through his, as I experience it, support for Yasir Arafat has charged the abuses against its own population in that case. So it's clear what's now happening in Afghanistan, what's a result of the Taliban regime's policy, that they've been feeding people like Osama bin Laden, and at the same time are pursuing an active human rights policy elsewhere. We should not, because all countries are not as democratic as we are, fail to stand up when we experience atrocities like those we experienced in the terrorist acts of 11 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e281	The causes of terrorism are many. For example, we have to. Looking for the reasons in the Middle East, which several speakers have been involved in earlier today, and in other areas of conflict. However, we cannot escape the fact that deep global injustice is an important reason why it is possible – not least – to recruit terrorist organisations. The party involved in the progress is in emergency assistance. It is affordable, but emergency aid is not enough to address the poverty that is thus contributing to terrorism. So my question is: does the Progress Party, following the terrorist attacks of 11 September, recognise that comprehensive, long-term assistance is necessary to combat the causes of terrorism and that this should therefore change the traditional position of the party on long-term aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e288	It is true that the Progress Party strongly prioritises emergency aid, and in particular we have done so in this situation. We feel it is right that the rich part of the world, including Norway, is actively contributing in this way. In the case of long-term assistance, our position is not primarily related to the fact that we do not believe we can refer to the money, but to what we think is best for development. Research, and not least the results of the openness and liberalisation that have existed in the world community in recent years, shows that trade has led to considerable progress in lifting poverty out of poverty. The forecasts for the future are thus also optimistic. The most significant contribution to a more – call it like – fair world is therefore a more open world, a world in which we trade with each other and have natural relations. We have the impression that aid often becomes a sleeper cushion, and does not feed what we think is a positive development and a democratic development. So there's a lot of our resistance to this. We can innovate that the Progress Party must also have a more active role in terms of how we can gain more democracy and to a greater extent secure human rights around the world. But our attitude to long-term assistance is correct – and then right on behalf of those who need it: the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e297	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e300	When the World Trade Center collapsed directly in front of a whole world, it became clear to everyone how incredibly vulnerable a modern society is to terror and actions carried out by people who fear neither their own lives nor those of others. The time when the great acts took each side of the conflict around the world has changed, and the cold war is over. The new threat picture is civil wars, human rights violations and conflicts within nation states that can spread rapidly to other world corners. 11 September can happen again, is the message to the American people. They are told to be on guard, but at the same time to live as normal. What can we do to reduce the chances of crazy terrorist attacks happening again? First, second and third bids are to think in the long term. We have to ask ourselves: will what we are doing today, fight terror in the long term and bring us closer to a peaceful world? Or do we solve today's problems in such a way that new conflicts are created, which recruit new terrorists and turn into violent acts and new sufferings in five or ten years' time? The ongoing war in Afghanistan is an example of how the world has become more insecure because conflicts have not been resolved in view of future, even gambling, with a future, expressed and necessary risk. Jimmy Carter's adviser, Brzezinski, said the candy to the French weekly magazine Le Nouvel Observer in 1998: ‘What is most important for the history of the world, the Taliban or the collapse of the Soviet Empire? Some excited Muslims, or the liberation of Central Europe and the end of the Cold War?’ Hardly anyone would think of saying something similar today. But it underlines the importance of thinking many steps forward if you really have the fight for peace and against terror in mind. For what has happened is that the U.S. has financed and trained the environments that today have carried out acts of terrorism, against the United States and against other countries in the world, because the goal in the short term has sanctified the means. So with open eyes, Pakistan and the United States have actively recruited, supported and funded the Taliban and bin Laden. The Northern Alliance, which today appears to be an important ally, was supported by Russia, India and Iran. Let me also remind you: in the same way Saddam Hussein was also an important ally for the United States in his time, when the conflict was about war against Iran. Today there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is one of the world's most brutal dictators. Thinking in the long term means that you can't forget the countries and areas that suffer from extreme poverty and gross violations of human rights – and then get back on them if CNN mentions them, or because it slams. After the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the country has been forgotten and neglected by the world community for over ten years. When the Taliban took Mazar-e Sharif in August 1998, nearly 6,000 people were slaughtered, about as many as were killed in New York. At that time there were small notes in the world press, and most of us didn't even know where Mazar-e Sharif was. Taliban atrocities against its own population led to no action to overthrow a oppressive regime. If the funds used today for warfare in Afghanistan were used for humanitarian aid in the decade that has passed, severe suffering could have been avoided. And if today's political interest in Afghanistan had been invested in establishing a more democratic regime long before, gross violations of human rights could have been avoided. You could avoid regimes that house terrorists. And this is not just true of Afghanistan, it is true in many areas of the world that are now forgotten conflicts. It's just that when it goes down, it's usually too late. A very important task for the world, for the UN and for all countries is to do preventive work, where we are involved in a global fight for human rights also in those countries that don't have the world's eye against them. The starting point for it must be that every human life on earth has equal value no matter where it is humiliated or killed. It's not like that today. A broad international alliance has so far coexisted in the fight against terrorism. The United States has many teams, including Saudi Arabia, Turkey and other countries that do not respect elementary human rights, and where popular and democratic movements cannot work freely. Among the population in these countries, bin Laden’s agitation has a impact field. There is a great danger that the only place where many of them can be gathered to discuss is in the mosques. In this way, lack of democracy can lead to opposition to oppressive regimes becoming more extreme, religious and fundamentalist than in societies open to democratic debate. World society and the United States must therefore put a great deal of pressure on these countries to bring about democratic development. Some conflicts in the world call for a fair solution for their own reasons and to prevent the reverberation of the agitation of terrorists. The most serious and urgent situation is for the Palestinians. Those who can put the most effective pressure on the Israelis are just the United States. I am glad that Jagland was so ready today in relation to stressing this very conflict. The abuses to which the Palestinians are subjected are gross violations of human rights, and of course extreme counter-reactions are being created. It is a danger to Israel and in the next round to the United States itself. The Norwegian Government must therefore put pressure on Israel to withdraw from occupied territories and negotiate a fair peace with the Palestinians in a completely different way from what Prime Minister Bondevik has now announced. A world of great differences and extreme distress can never be a fair world. That does not mean that terrorism can be explained by poverty. But that means that terror can get bigger impact fields, and that wars, conflicts and people's migrations in turn are also a threat to us. The United States has not set up a fairer world order. The list is long above the international conventions which they either train, do not sign or do not wish to be implemented. The list is also long over how much money they actually owe to the UN, which is the one that can take an international hold on the world situation that exists today. An important job that Norway needs to do is challenge the United States and press the United States to face international commitments. I would often wish I was a total pacifist or could trust the United States and George Bush blindly in one thing. It had been a simpler life, and I had escaped many difficult balances. Half of Norway's population, bishops and large sections of Culture-Norway have been against the warfare in Afghanistan or demanded a bomb stop when it started, not because we're naive, or because we support terror. We have protested against the war because it affects civilians in a country that has already suffered humanitarian disasters, and not least because the acts of war can lead to new recruitment to terror. The results of this may show up in a few years, and the results for those who are going to take over an unfair world after us, no one can guarantee for today, but there are many who have taken the chance to gamble. There's no reason to have blind confidence that the United States knows what they're doing. They recruited as well-known bin Laden when the Soviet was the main enemy. Today we are promoting two proposals that I would like to address. One is to challenge the Government to play an independent and critical role in relation to the discussions that are now taking place on the kind of solutions to be put in place in Afghanistan. We cannot, as one of the few countries in the world, put ourselves in such difficult balances that we blindly take all proposals that come forward from the United States as good fish. On the contrary, we must loyally stand up under the UN track for which many are now working. The second is a proposal such as: The Bishops' Meeting has encouraged, to hold a special session under the auspices of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e337	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e342	This was a good discussion of all the mistakes that have been made in history, and of what should be done in the future when it comes to terrorism, poverty, etc. But then there was SV's policy and what SV meant, and the consequences of what SV had to think about. We haven't heard anything about it, and now we have the right to right it. I understand that SV would continue on the track that the UN launched many years ago in relation to the Taliban and the protection of terrorists that the Taliban has served in Afghanistan. Several binding resolutions in the Security Council, 1333 and 1267 in the last two years, have just underlined this. But little has happened. The Taliban has continued to protect, and the result was the recent terror against the United States. But will SV continue with this? When SV asks about the consequences of the military action, SV has to answer and assess the consequences of not doing anything. Would one accept that the humanitarian tragedy had continued in Afghanistan for many years to come until one had received adequate pressure? Is it true that the Taliban would suddenly initiate cooperation with the international community, accept a lot of money and change their system in good will if only one had continued on this path? There was nothing to suggest. The result was terror in the United States. There must be an assessment from a large game. A large party can not only discuss the situation, a large party must have a position and discuss the consequences of its own positions, not just discuss the consequences of others' positions. So did the bombing: SV was against the military action starting and has always been for the bombing to be stopped. But what would the consequence be of that? Well, the consequence could have been that the tragedy persisted, that the military situation was just as unclear, that the civil war, which was actually going on in Afghanistan when the military action started, would continue. These are also assessments that SV must have included. SV has to discuss the consequences of their own attitudes, not just the consequences of others' attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e349	Yeah, that's right. Everyone must take responsibility for the positions they take in difficult situations. I am amazed that a man as sharp as Blankenborg can already be so sure that the acts of war carried out against Afghanistan can be summed up as successful. What is now on the ground in Afghanistan are many reasons to be very concerned about. It is a feared vacuum in relation to human rights and the current situation of the civilian population, but it is also extremely unclear how an alternative to the Taliban can be established. It's also paradoxical that most of those who did the terrorist acts against New York and the Pentagon have not been trained in Afghanistan. They do not have their background from Afghanistan, nor have they been in favour of Afghanistan. This is a kind of terror that's spread in networks around the world, and it's hard to see that you can pull it up with the root, as Oddvard Nilsen said here earlier today, by bombing in Afghanistan. We fully agree that the Taliban regime must be overthrown and replaced in Afghanistan – for several reasons, because they live in bin Laden, but also because it is a oppressive regime. So the question is, how do you do it with the least civil suffering possible? Now it seems that the Taliban's uprising among the pashtunes is about to crack. We think you would have come further if you had gone in massively with humanitarian aid to build up what could have been an alternative, and all of us know that it means building an alliance that also includes the population group that the Taliban has largely seized.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e356	There shall be serious grounds for defending the use of military action. In contrast to the Socialist Left, a broad majority believes that the documented link between the 11 September terrorist attack, bin Laden’s network and the Taliban regime in Kabul necessitated military action and bombing in Afghanistan. I note that SV still does not have the power to explain to us what the options could be. The Afghan people were hard tried before the war broke out. A repressive regime was responsible for gross violations of human rights and legal certainty, which, together with poverty and drought, had sent millions to flee internally and to neighbouring countries. At the same time, this was the humanitarian crisis to which the world had largely turned its back. The serious victim of the Afghan people during the bombing must be weighed against the results, which, fortunately, we can now begin to sum up as follows: the Taliban regime is in decline. It provides the basis for a new political solution in the country. In that process, the United Nations must ensure the transition to stability and respect for human rights. Without Taliban protection, bin Laden’s network is more open to roll-up, and the world’s attention has again turned against the acute and long-term needs of Afghanistan. Continued efforts are required for humanitarian emergency work, for the construction of the country, for the security of the political solution and for systematic action against the root causes of terrorism. Through its leadership role in the Afghanistan Support Group in 2002, Norway will have a special opportunity to make targeted efforts. We do this with motivation, with strength and great respect for the people involved, and for their culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e365	It must be allowed to point out in this debate that the reasons for the actions taken in relation to Afghanistan have changed both from the United States and in the Norwegian debate along the way. So it wasn't to run the Taliban that was the starting point. The starting point was to find and pick up bin Laden and strike back the terrorists. Then you've changed the reasoning along the way. I have to say I'm impressed if you can be so sure that you've now brought the world forward and forward. The lesson you have to learn from what happened in this area before is: first, you have to take responsibility for the fact that the United States itself has recruited and trained these environments. Secondly, this kind of action cannot be initiated without having a special look at the whole region, and at what else you can recruit from fundamentalists. And that must be said, in the Norwegian debate and otherwise. That's not a special point that SV has. These are just discussions that I expect to take place, at least behind closed doors – if not really scary. And it's taken up in many conversations and referred to in many conversations with those who dare to say their heart's opinion to Powell, or have their own heart's opinion when they meet American authorities. And I would like more people in this big business to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e375	It always surprises me that Kristin Halvorsen still points out that it is the U.S. that has taught bin Laden and his associates about terrorist actions. I guess that doesn't excuse the fact that they've gone to acts of terror. Otherwise, I think Thorbjørn Jagland made a good contribution here today, and I fully agree with what he says, and in his views. But in a line to Jagland, Kristin Halvorsen used the expression about him that he was “fast” and “screamproof”. If someone in their comments and opinions about the action in Afghanistan has just been quick and sloppy, it is SV – and in my opinion, it has made such a serious mistake. And it doesn't surprise me that SV, after it now seems like the action in Afghanistan is successful, is constantly trying to divert attention by constantly talking about other things. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is one thing, and we agree on that, but they are still trying to talk about outside things, including. They're withdrawing the United States' payment to the United Nations. The U.S. has now started its payment, although it is well late – we can agree on that – but they have at least perceived this as being time to settle. So that action is going on. I see this as an attempt by SV to divert attention away from the complete misinterpretation of what has happened in Afghanistan, which is just SV. And then I have to ask: is SV still saying that the bombing in Afghanistan was wrong in order to achieve the goal? And so on: NATO has played a central role in this action. What is SV's attitude to NATO now, and will they follow up their program to shut down NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e384	I guess it's true that I used the term "screamproof" about Jagland, and I think that was actually a little too strong. So if I can withdraw it, I'll do it immediately, for he was more reflected, especially in relation to the situation in Palestine, than such a term covers. Then I have to say that the Progress Party has nothing to learn about international policy. If you think it's talking about something else to underline the long-term gambling by doing this kind of action, then I really have to say that I should hope that the party's representative lived on a different globe than mine. It is precisely this situation that we have a responsibility to manage, namely that what we do in the short term makes sense in the long term. And that's exactly what's failed so far, and that's why you're standing up in this situation. Then it must be in place to emphasize how short-sighted one has had in the past, and what is the reason why one can recruit people to terror, which is so fanatical that they neither fear their own lives nor cherish the lives of others. This is exactly what makes the spiral of violence and the fear of terrorism in the world have taken a new turn. It's hard to see how to defend yourself against people who don't live their own lives or take others into consideration. It's just the kind of action that can be performed with bestial outcomes. And they don't even need very advanced weapons. The planes that crashed into the World Trade Center were hijacked with toll knives and wallpaper knives. Then bombs are not a simple answer to that. Then you just have to have that perspective all the time: how do you prevent recruiting to these kinds of environments? That is the only thing that can fight terrorism in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e394	The population of Afghanistan has been oppressed by brutal war and has had a dramatic humanitarian situation over the past 22 years. Now we see a stream of hope for a new political development in Afghanistan. The situation is still unclear, but it appears that the Taliban forces have now collapsed as a shorthouse across large parts of Afghanistan. Time and again, Kristin Halvorsen has stated that every day it is bombed, the Taliban is strengthened. She believes that the bombing increases terrorist support and strengthens the Taliban forces. The last time we stood up in a situation of bombing, by Serbia, Kristin Halvorsen supported the bombing, but she got to undergo quite strongly in SV for it. However, the military actions were very successful and have now resulted in a halt to the murders in Kosovo. And Milosevic is in The Hague accused of war crimes and crimes against human rights. At that time, the bombing was defined by the UN Secretary-General as in international law, but no decision was taken in the Security Council. This time we see the widest alliance we've probably ever had in world history, an alliance where Iran and Libya are shoulder to shoulder with NATO, the United Kingdom and the United States. The bombing has been under international law, we have decisions from the Security Council and decisions in NATO under Article 5, and it has been very successful. Kristin Halvorsen's vision bears the mark that she has never sat in government and does not think through the consequences of her actions. She believes that the actions should be stopped now. But what kind of message is that to Osama bin Laden? Will he continue to operate freely in planning and carrying out more cruel acts of terror? On September 11th, that was the fourth time he struck. He has enormous resources. I must also ask Kristin Halvorsen the question that she was unable to answer in the evening post: Was it wrong to bomb? Three times the Evening Post journalist asked that question, and Kristin Halvorsen, who is usually reasonably prepared, could not say that it was wrong for the United States to bomb.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e403	Yes, I think it was wrong to start the bombing of Afghanistan, and I think it was right to demand a bomb stop. I believe that the situation that is now in Afghanistan is very inconceivable. It is not right that the Taliban is strengthened. On the contrary. They're obviously very weakened. But what's the situation on the ground, the way in which you can put in place an alternative regime, and the way in which you can ensure law and order and that this country is not once again raging into civil war, is a very demanding task for the world community. And at least that requires one thing: that you keep this in focus and take responsibility for many, many years to come. Then I am amazed that Lars Rise – who has a good knowledge of the Pakistani environment in Norway and Pakistan and of the conflict in Kashmir – does not see what you can also gamble with in relation to instability in the region, in relation to recruiting new conflicts, and has no sense of thinking in the long term and asking questions about getting this back on a different and new and perhaps more brutal way in the future. In fact, no one else has so far asked that question in the debate. Have you now done actions that allow bin Laden to recruit more people who are willing to carry out the kind of extreme terrorist actions that we saw in New York and the Pentagon, or haven't you? Is the world prepared to focus on human rights and democratic development in other countries in order to prevent it from happening, or has it now faced such a situation that it helps to increase recruitment to terrorism? You actually don't know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e410	Kristin Halvorsen quite rightly states that the situation in Afghanistan is unclear. Therefore, it may be difficult to be non-slip. But it gets a little weird when one was so sloppy in a period when one actually almost didn't know anything about the situation inside Afghanistan. Then the suggestions were as crystal clear from SV as they are now. That's why, once again, I want to give Kristin Halvorsen the opportunity to reflect on his own suggestions, not only on the suggestions of others – let's just say that SV was against a military action starting – but the consequences of stopping the military action in the process. What would that lead to? Would this mean that the situation in Afghanistan would have improved for those who live there? Well, that's all that's going to happen, isn't it? Would this lead to a more effective fight against terrorism? This could have given us more terrorist actions if one had stopped along the way. And as Kristin Halvorsen says, the Taliban regime was not the target of this in itself. It was a goal because they covered the terrorists. This regime is now disappearing. This will also remove the protection of terrorist groups and terrorist groups. Then we're going to work together in the long term along the targets that Kristin Halvorsen mentions. But at least try to see if there's a string of hope for people in Afghanistan, just as a product of what's happened lately. I'm pretty sure there's a lot of uncertainty. But is it possible to see a ray of hope after what has now happened? Is it possible to see that a stop along the way might have resulted in us having been given years with the same terrorist regime in Afghanistan, the same protection of international terrorists for many years to come, that it would be a consequence of the proposals put forward by Kristin Halvorsen and SV? I ask because SV is a big party, which also has to reflect and take the consequences of its own proposals, not just discuss the consequences of others' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e417	I don't know if it's me that's sloppy and Blankenborg that's questionable and reflective or if it's the other way around, or maybe we're now showing up with the strongest arguments you have on both sides. I guess I don't think we're inviting to discuss with open doubts. Anyone who sees how it can be interpreted, you can read the Evening Post of yesterday. I'm more convinced now than when the bombing started that it could be wise to take a bomb stop and try to get a humanitarian solution in place. For the Taliban, when they were first pressured, they have appeared to be weaker among the pashtunes than it could be while it was going on. A large number of humanitarian organisations were despondent and demanded bombing to obtain humanitarian aid. Very soon winter is around the corner. If we succeed in making an alternative to the Taliban regime, it depends a lot on whether the Taliban has a population of its own. If there is going to be continued gerlia war in Afghanistan in the future, it will depend on whether the Taliban guerrilla receives support from the population. They have fewer players from outside than before. If they do not have support for the local population, they have a much worse starting point. And I think that would actually be a better starting point than if you hadn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e427	I have to say that I have heard the representative Kristin Halvorsen argue more eloquently for things than she did now in the last round, but it was of course a subjective opinion from my side. It's a pleasure to have such a broad dissension about the nuanced and good figure that the Prime Minister had last week. There have already been major changes on a week, but the distribution is because it was nuanced and long-term. Of what has happened to events, there is also an air crash in New York. It showed us how to fear ourselves. In Afghanistan, on the other hand, it now appears that we are closer to a political solution: a stream of hope is lit. No solution in a situation that after 11 September has been simple. There are many reasons for doubt. Just as well, the military developments in Afghanistan in the last few days show that the bombing has worked so far after that. Bombing was a controversial solution, but it was necessary – there was no other credible alternative. Terrorism, however, is about much more than defence, technology and money. For me, it's natural to focus on the humanitarian. Terror is a deep threat to the individual, to civil society and to fundamental values such as freedom and security. The very tense situation in Afghanistan calls for large-scale humanitarian aid. Mary Robinson is now appealing to the world community. Here we go! We must act quickly to avoid a humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan before the very cold winter sets in. World society follows the situation closely, and must, among other things. the need for a new regime in Kabul to build on human rights and to represent the many different ethnic groups in the country. The UN must play a central role in the establishment and construction of a new governance set. Coordination and long-term viability in reconstruction will be at the heart of the work when Norway takes over the leadership of the Afghanistan Support Group in the new year. The Minister for Development is now in Pakistan, on the border with Afghanistan. She has already visited some of the camps for Afghan refugees, and told of strong impressions. We must now take seriously the injustice that has been some of the germ of the attack. The suffering we see in Afghanistan now is more an explanation of what has created the desperate acts of terror than a consequence of the bombing. The example of Afghanistan shows the need to distribute resources from rich to poor countries. What we need are holistic strategies that are based on a globalised and at the same time vulnerable value. Aid, trade and debt are the most important pillars here. The fight against poverty and humiliation is the most important fight we're in. Let's never lose sight of it. Fortunately, the new situation in Afghanistan increases the possibilities for receiving aid missions and assistance in the country. Among other things, there's a base in Uzbekistan to do this. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, the Government has proposed to increase the level of commitments to areas on the way out of serious humanitarian crises up to 345 million. kr. Norway is providing 80 million in addition. kr for humanitarian action in Afghanistan. Over half of this amount goes to the United Nations. So to a completely different thing that settles the same thing. The dimension of life’s vision may not often appear to be visible in international policies. This may have serious consequences for the understanding of conflicts, including this one. Many in the West use too easily the concept of 'fundamentalism' when we refer to the Muslim world. Unfortunately, the necessary empathy is replaced by unclear enemy images. On the contrary, we must work to establish and improve the dialogue. This has to happen nationally and globally. Political solutions must also include dialogue on life's vision. Fundamentalist attitudes such as the fact that dialogue is a betrayal must be countered. Trust and respect — not mistrust — must be the starting point for science and fear. I find it sad to see that young Muslim children in Norway feel that they have downsetting characteristics related to their religion. I would therefore like to praise those who are behind advertising campaigns with posters such as «The world is not sweet» and «Not everyone happens over a comb». Let it apply to all of us. With their veils, some women are obvious in relation to their faith. For these, it is so important that we can distinguish between unscrupulous terrorists and all those who worship their religion in peace and patience. The distance between a peaceful Muslim in the streets of Oslo and a fanatical marine killer terrorist is endless. Even more innocent people must not be framed – none of us can afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e456	We have now got there in the Afghanistan war that it should be stopped as soon as possible and move on to the perhaps most difficult piece: trying to help resolve the conflict throughout the region in the long term. In SV, we have a long list of measures that we believe in the long term could help resolve the conflict. One of them is the creation of a Palestinian state. The fact that the Palestinians themselves will have their own legitimate state is a prerequisite for peace in the Arab world. In addition, it could be the start of a democratisation process across the region. As has been said here before, the Arab countries are not known for too much democracy. There can even be a contribution to the democratic experience of Israel. I would like to ask the representative Lilletun how the Christian People's Party will use its position in the Government so that Norway will exercise influence beyond what we already do today, both in the United States and in Israel, so that the establishment of Palestine becomes one piece of a puzzle that can contribute to a new start for the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e467	The representative Halvorsen said in an article that the first, second and third residents of this matter of terror were thinking about long-term. Here SV and the Christian People's Party are quite a few, long-term thinking is important. I hope that we can also be equal to some of the other bodas. When it comes to the question from the representative Jacobsen, I would like to reiterate that I do not fully understand what had improved in stopping the war – either before or now. Now one more has to go to the police forces. That one still needs armed forces in Afghanistan to prevent assault, I think we have to be a few, but I also believe we are going into a new phase in much of Afghanistan, at the same time as one might have to take the rest of the forces of the Taliban and bin Laden, and then there is a need for regular warfare. Therefore, it is not stopping an option. When it comes to the Middle East, it's obvious that there's a central area to win. And I'm glad that the representative assumed that there is only one democracy in the Middle East. That's easy for Israel. But at the same time, there must be a negotiated solution that both gives Israel safe borders and creates a democratic Palestinian state with human rights and with living conditions that can contribute to getting terror off the road. Therefore, I am pleased that the Prime Minister is already engaged in a close dialogue with the leaders both for Israel and for the Palestinian territories, and that the role of Norway will be continued. But I think it's right that Minister of State Melchior says that we also need to strengthen the religious dialogue in the Middle East, we should move on. It's one of the problems that we haven't solved it that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e476	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e479	The situation in Afghanistan is, as many have experienced, incalculable. The dangers of civil war are present, and the law and order situation are critical. The dangers of this going wrong are still present. However, taking into account the evolution, it appears to be moving in a positive direction. In my five minutes, I will focus on five points that, in the opinion of the Centre Party, will be crucial to ensure continued positive development. Firstly, the Taliban regime seems to be collapsing, but no one is ready to take over the rule of the country. No one other than the United Nations will be able to establish an Afghanistan-based regime that ensures a unified Afghanistan. That's why there's got to be all sorts of weight in giving the United Nations muscles to solve this problem. It is difficult to see that this is possible without the deployment of a UN force in any form. This should be planned immediately and Norway should be the first to announce participation. Secondly, the UN's political work will be impossible if emergency work is not stepped up. 5.5 million Afghans need help over the winter. 50000 tonnes of food per day. week must enter the country. That's far more than what's coming in now. The government has to admit that the need for emergency aid is not covered, and that it is not useful to hide behind the fact that there is more emergency aid to the country now than before the bombing started. Thirdly, parallel to political work and emergency aid efforts, long-term reconstruction needs to be planned immediately and started as soon as possible. Past experience suggests that this must be done with sufficient respect for local organisations and structures. Afghans must not be deprived of the responsibility to build their own country. The reconstruction work must be led by the UN, but – and I can't stress this strongly enough – that the long-term reconstruction is led by the UN, does not relieve the West of responsibility. We must not, for the most part, make the loss again: roll the responsibility over to the UN, then forget the country just as quickly as the flashlights go off, and leave the UN in the grip of the problems and also the blame when things go wrong. NATO has financial resources for a military operation. Then, too, NATO countries have the means to rebuild and thus prevent history from repeating itself. Norway has to take responsibility for reminding NATO partners about this. Fourthly, diplomatic work on Afghanistan's neighbouring country needs to be intensified. It will be essential to involve the countries of the region in continuing international work and to ensure that neighbouring countries have a humanitarian rather than a political issue with regard to Afghanistan. Stability in Pakistan must be ensured in order for us to have a positive development in Afghanistan as well. Norway, inter alia as head of the Afghanistan Support Group, should definitely strengthen its diplomatic involvement in the region. And my fifth and final point is to emphasise the following: the fight against terrorism has not been won by the fall of the Taliban and possibly by the fact that Osama bin Laden and parts of his networks are being set up for terrorist actions. The fight against terrorism can only be won if we understand and recognise the underlying causes of terrorism. Work on creating a common international understanding of the causes of terrorism must begin. This is demanding and perhaps uncomfortable for some countries, but it has to be done. We are therefore repeating our proposal for a special session in the United Nations on terrorism, where this process can start cautiously. A start could clearly be the follow-up to UNSCR 1373, which is crucial in the fight against terrorism, but which very few countries will be able to follow up because they have neither financial nor administrative capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e500	I'm actually written in all that Åslaug Haga said. I only have one comment when it comes to Norway being in the first row to contribute with a United Nations force. I'm sure we'll consider that when that day comes. I assume that then there are economic resources and not clusters, because there is perhaps a little more limited in relation to personnel – even the central party troops are fewer than before, so it can be impossible where it needs to be retrieved, and especially many other places are not too soon. I'm assuming that the Center Party here is talking about economic resources first and foremost. Then I've also seen in the newspapers – and it's supposed to be very careful – that the Central Party has thought that this military action should be stopped. Now nothing was said about it, so it's a good time. That is why I also thought that we should allow the Centre Party to be recorded here in the house that this is not actually the Central Party's position and does not have our Central Party's position, that the Centre Party is majoring the action and is now in favour of the long-term measures that everyone is aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e507	With regard to the first Blankenburg, on a United Nations force, I put it this way: ‘a United Nations force in some form or another’. There may be different types of effort the UN will have to put up with. There will be significant financial resources related to it, seafaringly, with which Norway should set up. I also do not exclude that it may be relevant with personnel in some form. So to the second question. I must tell the representative of Blankenborg that the Central Party has never asked for a final bombing location. What we asked for was a bomb break with the aim of ensuring emergency aid would enter Afghanistan. We were in a situation where the bombing had taken place for several weeks without any progress information. We knew that winter was approaching in Afghanistan too, and we knew that the emergency needs were great. At the same time, we saw that the public opinion related to the actions in Afghanistan fell dramatically, and it was not least related to the concern about the humanitarian situation. That's exactly why we thought it wise, also to maintain the popular upswing of the actions, that we took a break to get emergency help in. That was our reason for asking for a bomb break, and by the knowledge that we had at that time, I believe it was a wise approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e520	The terrorist attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on 11 September showed us a new threat picture, where terrorists armed with hate and wallpaper knives put their lives in order to achieve their goals. The actions were cruel, innocent, and frightening all over the globe. The actions also showed us to the full vulnerability of our modern societies. The Vulnerability Committee, led by Kåre Willoch, presented its position last July. In this public investigation, the security threats facing our society are, in a thorough manner, discussed with a number of proposals for action. It seems clear to the Vulnerability Committee that invasion from the east is not the biggest safety challenge for this country in the coming years. In SV we share that view and welcome a genuine security policy debate. It can no longer be that we are going to spend all our resources on the defence budget for the purchase of expensive boats, expensive aircraft and other equipment intended for invasion from the east, when the threats are completely different and more complex, which we are now so painfully aware of. I would like to challenge the Central Party to take over this new debate and not just be part of the usual majority in this Chamber calling for more resources for the conventional defence – a conventional defence that is rooted in the idea of the cold war of the past and which does not sufficiently capture today's threat picture, where we, for example, are. to ensure one of Europe's largest food barrels and our vulnerable oil installations. I would also like to thank the support of the proposal for a special session of the United Nations against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e536	The centre party is primarily about recognising that we have a new security policy threat image. The challenges are many. They relate to what we have witnessed in later times, to terrorism. They are not least related to safety in relation to safe food. So here the spectrum is wide, and we fully recognize that. The new security policy challenges need to be met with instruments other than those we have traditionally done. There we are prepared to use funds both in relation to ensuring safe food, which I used as an example, and in relation to contributing to international regulation so that the causes of terrorism disappear as far as possible. I don't think it's wise to draw a direct link between what we're talking about now and the challenges we have in the more traditional security policy arena. We have been through a broad discussion in relation to the defence structure. There is a relatively broad political consensus about it in Stortinget, and we are also behind it. We believe it is fully possible, and that it is wise, in parallel, to maintain the defence, as it has been discussed in the Stortinget, and the Stortinget is behind, while being even more active than what we have been in some of the new security policy areas, where we have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e543	Let me first say that I agree with many of the points that Mr Haga has listed in relation to the further work now to help fill the vacuum of power in Afghanistan, to help stabilise the situation, and also in relation to the long-term work to combat international terrorism. However, as has also been shown, the Central Party is the second party that has considered that the Government should address the bomb stop or the bomb break on the basis of the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. After all, it has gradually emerged from the United Nations and from other humanitarian aid organisations that it is primarily the Taliban and not the military actions that have prevented humanitarian aid from reaching Afghan needy victims. The Taliban is responsible for the plundering of UN humanitarian aid and also for the harassment of relief workers. I also think there is reason to dwell a little bit on what a demand for bombing would mean for the obligations we have in relation to NATO, and especially after we agreed in NATO that this was a situation that triggers the use of Article 5 of the Alliance, that is, the article that says that an armed attack on one of the parties should be considered an attack on all, and that solidarity in NATO means that one should assist the affected party. The centre party places great emphasis on the importance of NATO for our security, both during the Cold War and in the current security policy situation. So what does the Central Party think that NATO solidarity really means? Does she think that a demand for a bomb break would in some way be defended also within the solidarity of which we are part within the NATO alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e554	The answer to the question is a very clear yes. In the context of Article 5, it may be possible to request a bomb break and to carry out a bomb break. I believe that I have read the articles of the NATO Treaty relatively carefully, and there is nothing in those texts that it is not possible to carry out a bomb break sail if you are inside an action, so I think this is completely unproblematic formally. What would have been more problematic would have been to bring the other NATO countries with them on a bomb break. And that would be the political job that I think would be wise if Norway had undertaken to do. It would be demanding, but not impossible in my opinion. But in relation to the question, whether there were formal problems related to a bomb break in relation to Article 5, the answer is quite obvious that there are no such problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e559	In general, I would also like to endorse the views expressed by Åslaug Haga. It was a good analysis of what must now happen in the future, except that it might be a little early to make a detailed decision, at least to Norwegian participation in some kind of UN force, maybe a KFOR-like force, which I think there is a great need. I mean, it's been the TV pictures for the last few days. There is now at least as much need in Afghanistan to prevent atrocities as in Kosovo. But when the Center Party demands a break in the bomb – what does that mean? The central party knows that there has not been as much emergency aid to Afghanistan in many years as it is now. What I'm asking is, should this be a bomb break over winter, or how long do you think this stop in the bombing will last? And then I'm going to ask, "Does the Center Party still require a bomb break, and in case how long?" Does the Central Party believe that Norway, by breaking out of an alliance to which it has given full support, can fulfil its obligations in NATO? Norway has first taken part in the Security Council and voted in favour of the military actions, and then in NATO, where the same strategy has been voted on. Was it wrong for Norway to set up and be prepared to send its own forces and participate in the planning of further military actions? I want to ask that we get a clarification on this, and whether the Central Party still believes that the military actions have to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e566	I do not really believe that the representative Rise is uncertain about the starting point of the Central Party in this matter. We ended up dealing with actions when they were started, and we made that clear in Stortinget when this question was raised in the first round. It is not, of course, the intention of the Centre Party to ‘break out of an alliance’ – as the representative Rise put it. What we were talking about was creating an understanding within the alliance that it would be wise to carry out a bomb break based on the need that existed – and to some extent still exists – in order to get emergency aid into the country, that it would be wise because at the same time it would give us time for active diplomatic work, and it would also be wise to maintain the popular upsurge of the actions. That was our starting point for asking for a bomb break. Such a situation has developed in Afghanistan in the last few days – a situation that I believe nobody in this room was able to predict just five to six days ago – is little reason to believe that it would now be appropriate to carry out a bomb break. But there's a situation that's evolved rapidly over the past few days. With the knowledge we had of the situation at the time this was taken up, it seemed like a very wise approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e575	I understood from the representative Haga's response to the last line that the assessment they made at the time of the bomb break was not necessarily correct, and I think that's very good. One argument from the Center Party – and Haga – was that popular support for the bombing was severely weakened. We should listen to that, we should always listen when we receive popular signals. But does Haga not agree with me that in a situation of continuous military action, it is important to stick to one's goals, to mix listening to the people's opinion with the military assessments that are being made all the time, and to have faith in what has been started? It may otherwise be difficult to carry out these types of actions. Another question: they talked about bomb break. Can Haga give any indication of the conditions under which the bombing would be resumed? What had to be done to make that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e585	We are committed to firmness in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan. That's why there was a bomb break the center party went in for, not a final bomb stop. We have a lot of people to listen to in relation to how we should deal with a current situation. The military side, on which the representative, Høglund, was concerned, is one of the aspects to be listened to. We were not least concerned about listening to the humanitarian aid organisations that were insistently asking for a bomb break in order to avoid a further reinforcement of the humanitarian disaster that was underway and that is in part in Afghanistan. So here, in my opinion, there is a need to listen to many and not just focus on the attitudes and judgements promoted by the military. When it comes to the question of how long a possible bomb break would be, it would depend on how fast a person would be able to get that emergency aid into the country that we thought it was necessary to get in. And let me stress: there's still a huge need to get emergency help into Afghanistan. That would be the one starting point. The second starting point would be that one realized that through this bomb break one did not move on when it was about diplomatic work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e594	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e597	I have listened to the debate and decided to throw out the post I had intended to hold. I think it is absolutely necessary – when we live in peaceful, kind and democratic Norway – to take one perspective of what has happened in Afghanistan, and what has happened after 11 September, seriously. That's what's called the asymmetric terrorist threat. That means that someone from their own moral worldview believes that they have the right to use any kind of means against others – no matter who it is. Then we can all, inside ourselves and together with others, conduct an ongoing spiritual debate and reflect on what is most important in the short term and in the long term to do something. But it does not relieve us of the responsibility to act in the short term, even if it may be painful-full. Political life is usually not about choosing good, but about choosing between the right evils. What does it have to say about the domestic situation in Norway? At least it has to say that the Vulnerability Committee – as one of the representatives was in the past – was set up in my previous time as Minister of Justice, and whose position Kåre Willoch presented in the summer of 2000, has been drastically updated in many ways. It's been updated because we've been reminded that a modern society is vulnerable. In this situation, both the previous government, the Labour Party government, and the government in which I sit, have taken a number of practical steps to strengthen the police, the police surveillance service and civil protection, and we have taken the necessary steps to prepare ourselves for possible situations of biological/chemical terror. What I want to dwell on is the democratic consideration we are facing. Is it going to be like this, because something's new and unfamiliar, that you're not going to talk about it? Do we pass the test as democracy that we can talk about crises that go beyond our own lives, but that affect a society? I'm convinced that we have to pass that test, because it's only when we can maintain the normality of our lives, while we think about the unimaginable. The most important insurance premium in Norway is that we have a strengthened and upgraded civil protection with all its different components, that we have a good police force, that we have a state-of-the-art surveillance service that, together with popular organisations, provides knowledge and a basis for action, which reduces vulnerability and defends our democracy. Part of that discussion is to be serious about the threat images we can face. We have to do that at the same time as we live our normal lives. What does this have to do with the military operations in Afghanistan? Well, it has to do with the fact that even on the international stage, it happens that one is facing situations where one has the choice of acting in a moment or acting now. And I am absolutely convinced that the actions that have been taken – to use the terminology that I have applied – were necessary and correct, because in my opinion, the alternatives were far more untransparent. It is part of the political essence to stand by the actions that have been taken. I am in a government that has been involved in those actions, and I stand by those actions. It then, of course, opens up, as many have been involved, an opportunity to also take other long-term and necessary measures, including: now providing humanitarian aid into the country of Afghanistan. In our own country, it's about when we get so far that we know the threats to our society, we have to let people own it. We're actually well served that we have a surveillance service that works in such a way that we know that much of what it's working on is going to be there, while we know that much of it can't be known, because then we don't have a surveillance service at all. But it is my duty to talk about it, and it is my duty to seek the widest possible connection and legitimacy of the kind of services in the service of society and democracy to be sure that it will work. That means that in Norway too, regardless of what we have now had to do with bin Laden and his networks and the support they have had in the Taliban regime, we need to think about possible unimaginable situations in our own country without taking any action, while at the same time getting ready to meet them. And I feel like a completely necessary duty to leave these things there. I have noticed a newspaper commentator, who at some point after what happened on September 11th, asked the following fundamental and very challenging questions: Can modern people deal with crises that might affect society, or have we become so accustomed to the society we know, that we can't think of those thoughts? I believe that the normality of our lives, our democracy, is protected only if we are able to sort out the difficult as well. That's a correct answer. It's getting insight, it's having agencies that are well prepared. It concerns civil protection and the monitoring service. It is my vision that we should have an upgraded civil protection, an upgraded surveillance service, which, together with popular organisations, gives us knowledge and ability to act, which both reduces vulnerability and protects our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e619	I have a central and challenging question for the Dørum Council of State, and that is the following: If one is going to fight for democracy, which is listed as the big issue here in connection with everything that has happened since 11 September – it is a matter of being critical of the fact that one is doing it – is it possible to do so if one goes in and violates fundamental democratic rights, if one deprives people of fundamental democratic rights and introduces military dictatorship or regime-like conditions in relation to the judiciary? It was kind of a leading question. The answer should obviously be no. My follow-up question to the Council of State Dørum will then be: what is now happening in the United States, where, according to the Newspaper and the international media, military courts, consisting of only a few members who can judge people to death without the usual legal security procedures being in force, without the need to report that it has happened, is it compatible with a struggle for democracy? And will the Council of State Dørum make sure to fight for a little more democratic rules of the game when it comes to combating terrorism in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e626	I was born and raised at a time when Norway passed emergency laws that were tougher than anyone in this room has ever taken inwards, including myself, for a situation that was thought to be a war situation. The Americans feel that they are in such a situation. Of course, I'm going to get all the insight they use when they deal with it, just like the United Kingdom does. I see no basis for Norway today with the knowledge we now have to implement, for example. rules of detention. But I see every reason for with openness to talk about serious asymmetric threats, as I did, and I'll answer in principle. When someone shoots at you, do you choose the pacifistic solution, or do you take it again? I choose to do it again. Is it okay to prevent crime? Yes. But shall one take the criminal at the moment he does anything? Yes. Will someone, e.g. Emotional, they will do everything they can to prevent a violent crime, for example: violence against women? Yes. But does anyone in this room think we shouldn't react sharply when someone does? Everyone would say that we should react sharply. Does that mean that we get into dilemmas? Yes, but we have to choose the action options that always protect the weakest in the system, and nothing is more vulnerable than democracy. Can it be that there will be a cross of thought for society? For some societies it's obviously been. In fact, it is raging a public debate about it in the United States, and it is happening in the United Kingdom as well. In Norway, I want us to be in the forefront of any debate by talking openly about vulnerability and the dilemmas, so that we know what we're facing. That's my basic attitude to this. That's why when I was last responsible for justice policy, I talked openly about a threat picture, because I think serious things should be owned by a people. Then a people know how long they can defend their normality, and they also know the limit when there may be an extraordinary situation. I have no better insurance premium than that, and I intend to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e635	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e638	Today's debate represents what terrorists hate the most. Fortunately, in our country it is allowed to be critical of what officials say, and to publicly express this scepticism. But it must also be allowed to say clearly that one is right, and the other is wrong. And to those who measure September 11th and the military operations in Afghanistan on the same scale, I have the following message: Think about the consequences of such reasoning. I'm not just a member of the government in this context. I am also responsible for Norwegian soldiers – young Norwegian men and women – who in a given situation may have to give their lives in the fight against the terrorists. It's a responsibility as a burden. It's a responsibility that makes the ethical dilemmas associated with the use of military resources come close to me. No one needs to convince me that warfare always has a serious price. However, in some cases other instruments are lacking. Sometimes, but fortunately rarely, military action is a necessary evil, even though innocent people are always affected. In Afghanistan, the aim is to destroy bin Laden's terrorist network and break the Taliban regime, which both protects and houses central parts of this network. The aim is that at least new terrorist attacks should not escape training camps in Afghanistan and with contributions from the regime there. I am sure we will succeed in that, and I am sure that people understand that you cannot destroy a terrorist camp or a command hole solely with police cooperation, political pressure and financial instruments. I am therefore convinced that most people, when it really comes to the problem, realize that the military operations were and are necessary to put an end to the military capabilities of the Taliban regime and continue to misrule. At the same time, a clear signal is sent to the world community: whoever gives a terrorist protection must expect himself to be treated as a terrorist. Developments in the last few days show that the military campaign is producing results. Supported primarily by American forces, the North Alliance has taken over important cities, military bases, airports and other important areas. It provides far better opportunities for inland transport of supplies into Afghanistan. It will facilitate the supply of military forces and at the same time will make it possible to increase humanitarian aid considerably. The Uzbek authorities have authorised the transport of such assistance via Uzbekistan. The Taliban is in disintegration and defense, but I'll still warn against believing that the military operations can be halted in the very near future. We have heard a cry about the lack of military results. We have recorded uncritical claims about the extent of the humanitarian suffering that was a direct consequence of the bombing. But in the very safest, perhaps thoughtful thought should now find space, without the involvement of the innocent victims becoming less for that reason. On the military side, we are already assisting in monitoring American airspace against new terrorist threats. We will soon be participating in eastern Mediterranean security operations, and we have opened our own country to supply and other support for allies involved in the fight against international terrorism. Our intelligence service makes important contributions, we have increased the security of allied installations in Norway, and soon, together with a number of coalition partners, we will have a permanent representative at the central command in Florida. Although the Norwegian defence does not participate with forces in Afghanistan, I will not rule out that in the future, NATO's humanitarian efforts will be able to update Norwegian contributions. No nation can be neutral in this conflict. NATO solidarity has been our security pillar, and we are fully willing to comply with our obligations. The very principle – the obligation to provide our close friends and the most important allied support – is imprecise. The same is the willingness to support an unconventional war against an enemy who has brought terror into the everyday lives of people. However, it is not a war that can be won solely by military means, but it cannot be won without it. And I'm sure we'll succeed in the end. The threat of terror against Norway is low. But the price can be high if it is not taken seriously. I am sure that the defense of crews and officers will do their utmost to prevent and combat terrorism. We have a job to do, and it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e662	I'd like to arrest – not bring in any kind of court, but arrest – Kristin Krohn Devold at one point, and that's the goal of what you're doing in terms of the warfare that's now taking place from the United States and the United Kingdom in Afghanistan. At the very beginning, before the bombs began to fall, Russia was very early out and said, "We should have the aim of breaking the Taliban regime." Then the United States said, "We can't do that." That is why the Prime Minister said in his statement: ‘The objective of the fight against international terrorism is clear: we must prevent new terrorist attacks and those responsible for the attacks on 11 September and their supporters must be tracked and held accountable.’ There's nothing to break the Taliban regime. I notice that now, a little later, we're coming back again, and now you've done a lot of bombing, and then you've gone into it that, on the one hand, has kind of been a regular civil war between parties for a long, long time. Then bombing is carried out, the Taliban regime is displaced, and now Kristin Krohn Devold comes and says that one of the goals there was to break the Taliban regime, because that's what the United States has said. My point is this: it has been in this debate that the right and other parties' way of discussing foreign policy has been to lodge after the United States has spoken – so also in relation to what is the goal of this discussion. It would have been a lot better for Norway if we had been able to get an independent foreign policy where you could see the long lines, and where you could make some decisions and positions, regardless of first listening to what comes ticking in from Washington.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e678	I would like to stress that there is full agreement in the Government on the goal of this action. I would also like to stress that it is possible to get more information along the way. You could also have some long-term goals and some short-term goals. It has been a long-term objective of the entire action to avoid the use of terrorism as an instrument of international policy. In order to achieve this, it was important to ensure that the Taliban regime in Afghanistan stopped supporting international terrorism. It has been shown that there have been close links between Osama bin Laden and the Taliban regime that we see today. It is therefore now a broad international objective – also communicated by the UN spokespersons themselves – to bring in a new and wide-ranging body of management in Afghanistan. But what I think has been a bigger problem in this debate than that Right-wing representatives are staying for the United States – we don't, we disagree with the United States on more things, among other things. with regard to paying its contribution to the UN – is that through its incredibly critical attitude to all the US is doing, the SV has been blind to what this action is really about, namely to get the international terrorists taken, to put them in charge, and also to those who have made possible the establishment of this terrorist network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e688	I think the Council of State made a very clear and straightforward statement and agreed on everything she said. However, I have to ask: does the Council of State think that Norwegian defence is well prepared for terrorism? Of course, you can never be well prepared. It is also not known what kind of estimates may be made. But is the Council of State comfortable with the situation currently facing the Norwegian defence in connection with the terrorist threat? And another thing: the Council of State has also announced that there will be a proposition for spring that will deal with both financial resources and thoughts about combating terrorism. Does the Council of State think it's time to make this proposition for spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e697	There were two questions asked. One was about Norwegian defence is well prepared. I guess we have to be open enough to say that there is hardly any defense in the world that has been well enough prepared for a terrorist situation. But there are positive aspects to the transition in the Norwegian defence that has begun, and that actually now turns out to be quite right in relation to the new terrorist situation. What we need more of, are international, mobile units that can operate with other countries. That's what we're about to do when it comes to sea, air and army. And the fact that we could actually report to NATO when Article 5 was triggered, that we had something to do with, that we have a frigate in STANAVFORLANT, that we have a submarine that can contribute to STANAVFORMED, that we have intelligence technology, that we have opportunities to deal with surveillance resources, that we're in the process, and we actually have things that are relevant to the new terrorist situation. But then to question no. two, if it is time to present a separate case to spring. To that I can say that we're not just doing that. We have taken some action against the new terrorist threats that have already passed the Government through the Ministry of Justice. We get a redeployment proposition, where the Ministry of Defence redeploys some of its funds according to the new situation, and then of course we have some measures that we take to spring. So we've started, and we have a plan to be able to adapt to the new worldview even more than the Stortinget might have taken on when we dealt with the conversion proposition for the Defense on 13 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e706	On 11 September we got a grotesque illustration of today's safety challenges and that they have changed considerably. It has been that the security image has changed in the past as well, and we have, of course, also modernised both the defence and our preparedness in parallel with what has happened. But what is now fundamentally different is that we've had some unpredictable situations, and we've got a whole new international threat picture. I have a comment to the Council of State: it is not necessarily that armored vehicles that roll east in North Norway are the best means of working against white powder that comes in envelopes, whether they are sent to statesmen or to others, and that prove to contain bacteriological weapons – so now it is important that we recognize what the new threats we have described involve. What impact does the Council of State have on the modernisation of defence? And will the Council of State ensure that this modernisation keeps the pace that the June decision meant it would last? In other words, will the Council of State ensure that we do not have a delay in modernising the defence that will be absolutely necessary to ensure that we have sufficient preparedness in the new security policy situation that we and others have been in?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e715	Of course, it is quite right that armoured vehicles in North Norway do not help towards a white powder. But I also want to warn a little about the rhetoric that SV used earlier today, that because terrorists today use carpet knives and extremism, modern technology is not needed. There are many technologies, many techniques and many budget lines we need to use to get a real tool against the new terror. With regard to the white powder and what goes on in bacteriological and chemical warfare, we need to increase our own competence in this area and our own response resources internally in Norway to deal with such situations. But in fact, we also need to eliminate capacities in other countries. In this context, there may be grounds for mentioning that CNN today informed – although we reserve the right to come from a media channel – that manuals have been found to build nuclear weapons in the Taliban’s House in Kabul, and that chemical laboratories for the production of chemical and bacteriological weapons have been installed in bin Laden’s terrorist camps. It is an illustration that aircraft, and perhaps even bombers, sometimes have to be used to combat the new threat. If there was any situation around the World Trade Center attack, it was that what you could have used – of course if you had known about it some time in advance – was planes to intercept. It was the instrument that could have been used. This means that even in the new threat situation, high-tech military instruments will be absolutely necessary, while at the same time increasing the response capacities when and if the accident should first be out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e724	I share the opinion that the Council of State has expressed, namely that we need both – and. But there was one question that the Council of State did not answer, and it was whether she would see to it that the modernisation of the defence adopted by the Stortinget on 13 June goes as planned. The wording of the supplementary proposal submitted by the Bondevik Government and also in the press release by the Council of State itself has created some concern and some uncertainty relating to the conversion of the Defence and the extent to which it will take place at the rate envisaged. If there's ever a need to do the Defense Modern and in agreement with the preparedness required in the new threat picture, it's now. So I'm going to ask again whether the Council of State is aiming at modernisation going its way, and also whether the reorganization proposition that she intends to present is going to put obstacles in the way or limit the pace of the transition process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e731	I thank the representative Nybakk for giving me the opportunity to answer the other question she asked. You get excited when you're standing here, and then all of a sudden the two minutes are gone. Of course, we must maintain the pace of the modernisation of the defence. Or to put it another way: my intention is to increase the rate of modernisation, because what we didn't know on 13 June when the restructuring proposal was adopted was what was going to happen on 11 September. This has caused us to see that certain capacities that were not included in the overall conversion package of 13 June, we now need to get ourselves a little faster. Then we might have to go even faster in building down structures that we don't need much longer, in order to be able to invest in other things. I'm going to give an example that I come up with on the go, and that's air to ground-capacity for our planes. If our aircraft are to participate in international operations – it may be to provide food, it may be to support humanitarian operations – it is important that they can at least protect themselves from ground attack. Some of these very urgent things are also accelerating the need for necessary technology investment in defence in order for us to be able to address what the United Nations and others are asking us to do. In a budgetary situation where the defence has so far not received much more than it has requested – to say it carefully – it may also have to do some re-priorities within the budgetary framework agreed by the Stortinge, and that it can go in the direction of building up some facilities in Norway for which we are less needed, in order to move money over to equipment that we are internationally obliged to provide, and for which we need more in a new terrorist situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e738	I really think Kristin Krohn Devold very well underlined my point that there is not much Right disagree with the United States, when she managed to find out that what they disagreed most about was that they should actually pay their debts. I am very pleased that the Right believes that people should pay their debts, and that it should also apply to states. But I still want to stay a little bit at two of the things that I took up, and that I felt I wasn't getting a very good answer to. One is what is going on in the situation in Afghanistan now, that is, when do you think the goal is achieved? The formulations that Kristin Krohn Devold made were a little bit round, and I wonder if the Council of State can be a little more concrete. When do you consider the objective to be achieved in Afghanistan? My second question is, which part of the foreign policy of the United States is what they actually disagree with, which they can draw out and say, look, this is actually what we disagree with? SV was charged because we were critical. I have to say that in my party there is a fundamental position to be critical of all forms of power. We're not rejecting all use of power, but we're critical of power. I also think that the Right could be. These two questions I could imagine getting a slightly better answer to. I would like to refer to what I said instead to Dørum in relation to these military courts that are now being established in the United States, to which very many are strongly critical, also among democratic representatives in Congress. Is this, for example, something where Right and Krohn Devold would express criticism of the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e749	There is probably quite a lot of disagreement between the United States and Norway, or for that part of the Bondevik government. I can give a very concrete example of what I got involved in last time, and that is the International Criminal Court. Norway was one of the first countries to ratify such a system, and I have also, through the work of the Justice Committee, been very committed to getting both international courts to put criminals in charge and other matters in the security of individuals in civil society. There we disagree with the United States. I was also present in the United Nations in the autumn of 1999 and took part in debates where an overall Europe was very critical of the United States when it came to the UN contribution. I actually think that some of the things that can be positive with September 11th is that the United States has a completely different commitment after September 11th, by actually taking an interest in what's happening outside the country's borders and having a completely different commitment to caring about humanitarian situations and actually actively helping. I belong to those who believe that just as the bombing of Pearl Harbor made America very concerned about starting NATO as a security for the international community, 11 September may mean that the United States has a completely different commitment to caring about peacemaking in the big world. And that this has affected their attitude towards the UN is quite clear. That's why it's not the purported role of the Right as a party that supports all the United States doing, which is the case, that's not what's going on here today. The theme here today is what we're going to do to get a different situation in Afghanistan. There was another question for the representative: when have we reached the goal? Of course, it is not possible to answer, but the five points that UN Special Representative Brahimi has outlined for further progress, we are fully committed to. They can hopefully help us get to the goal as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e760	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e763	When NATO adopted its strategic concept a few years ago, the new threat picture was drawn: terrorist networks, international crime, human trafficking, drug trafficking and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The danger of nuclear material or chemical weapons falling into the hands of unstable regimes and terrorists, and the focus on resting terror cells was part of this picture that was added to the more traditional threat picture. NATO recognised that terrorism can create international instability and that the modern, open and increasingly technological and globalised society is vulnerable. Then came September 11th, and the threat picture became reality. Then it is important, I think, that we do not lose focus in the debate on the fight against the terrorist attacks, as I believe SV has done completely. Nobody disagrees that the fight against terrorism must be long-term and that we must look at the causes. We must have both political, diplomatic and military instruments. It was necessary to remove the heavily oppressive and brutal Taliban regime, where bin Laden's people have been an integral part, yes, actually part of the government, to the extent that you can talk about government in the Taliban regime. I am surprised at the SV's sloping safety, to use their own expression, and the lack of willingness to draw the consequences of their own attitudes. When did SV take up the repressive terrorist regime of the Taliban and their protection and not least integration of bin Laden's network? And what would the consequences be if the military actions were stopped before the pressure on the Taliban regime became so strong that now, as we experience, they are hopefully being removed from Afghanistan and we get a broad-based regime where the United Nations plays a role? It is also a little strange, I think, that SV supported the military actions against Serbia, while in this case, where there is a significantly worse regime – they can almost not be compared – it is completely impossible to communicate with them in terms of measures against terrorism and the Taliban regime. Nationally, we need to think fundamentally new in our defence and security policies in order to follow up the needs, demands and obligations of Norway's NATO membership, but above all to ensure the security of everyday life for most people. Social security and preparedness must become an important task. I register that the government will provide a strategy message based on the Vulnerability Committee's setting, and meets it. The risk picture has always been a reflection of developments both nationally and globally, and we need to keep following that. But then we have to be prepared for the unpredictable, which in the short term can change both the international situation, the balance of power and not least our security policy. The work after 11 September shows not only how vulnerable we are, but also how many areas of society need to be involved in the preparedness and defence of our country. What kind of capacity does our health care system have if a reagent tube with bacteriological weapons is crushed at a sports arena or a music festival? How many places for third-degree burn do Haukeland have hospitals? How is the municipal emergency response in Norway? And how is the Norwegian defense equipped to face a possible terrorist attack? We need to know what means we are going to use against bacteriological weapons or against the development of terrorist cells in Norway. This is why a major change in the structure and organisation of the defence is also necessary. Coastal preparedness has therefore become more important. Therefore, cooperation between civil and military preparedness becomes an area that we need to look specifically at in the future. Therefore, as a nation, we are dependent on stable international framework conditions and a strong NATO. That is why we are dependent on cooperation with the EU's defence and security policies and on increased commitment to our relationship with Russia, including Russia. to implement and deliver substance to the northern dimension of the EU. 11 September 2001 has not only shown us that new threats are in other parts of the world or in our neighbourhoods. They're here, and they're the biggest challenge of open and vulnerable democracy. Let me join in what Kristin Krohn Devold started with, that is, that the debate we have today represents what terrorists hate the most, but that we want to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e784	I noticed in the picture on the first page of the Evening Post today by an Afghan woman. It showed a whole face, a strong face, not just the eyes, which is what we've been used to seeing. And it says a little bit about the possibilities that now exist, because the Taliban regime is a very repressive regime, which has many violations of human rights on its conscience, especially women have been suppressed. So it's this regime that's on the waving front and on the retreat. It provides opportunities for this society, but it's far ahead, and they're probably going to experience a lot of difficulties. The debate we have had here today has shown that there is broad consensus between many parties. SV is not part of this consensus, but SV does not have anything very good in this debate either. The fight against terrorism involves much more than the situation in Afghanistan. But I still want to link my comments to Afghanistan, not least because we have seen a very big change in the military, over the last few days. It underlines that it was important to follow the arrangement that had been agreed upon, that it was not right to implement a bomb stop, and it was right to get as far as you have done before winter really gets in, and before we get the humanitarian situation also linked to winter inwards. It is a bit of the same thing that we can learn from this debate that we learned from the debate on Kosovo. Many are concerned along the way, but it has been right to hold on to the position. I think there are two important issues that must be at stake. One is that it is a long-standing problem that is now to be solved in Afghanistan. Åslaug Haga used the term danger of civil war. Yeah, there's been war and unrest in this country for 23 years, that's what we're now taking in. And the second is that the humanitarian disaster has been there for a long time, it has not been created this harvest. I just came from a meeting in the United Nations where Afghanistan was very central. The UN Special Envoy provided a so-called road map on how to approach the policy solution, a wide-ranging road map. But it is based on the important premise that the solution must be anchored in Afghanistan itself. It is not useful to push solutions from the outside. The UN may have the facilitating role, but it's all the peoples who have to be there and have ownership of the process and the result themselves. This applies not least to the Pashtun people, because it is true that everyone in the Taliban is Pashtuns, but not all Pashtuns are Taliban. It is therefore necessary to provide a broad solution. It's important that the North Alliance now does not retaliate. It is important that the outside world is very attentive and pressured not to do so, and that is what the Security Council resolution says a lot about after a Norwegian initiative. It is a constructive approach to the role of the UN among all the Member States, it is a great support, and I think we can actually see the UN as we wanted to see it, when we are now going to go further in the reconstruction work in Afghanistan. There are already UN personnel on the way back, and they will be at the heart of both the political solution and the reconstruction process itself. In terms of reconstruction, we must remember that that concept is not primarily linked to the bombing of this harvest, but it is linked to the outcome of many decades of civil war and major humanitarian problems. The task is overwhelming, it's difficult, but it's important to do it. Norway will have an important role to play in this work. From the turn of the year, Norway becomes the president of the so-called Afghan Support Group, and we are currently studying how to approach this Presidency. We think it's going to be a big problem – a problem that Norway likes to deal with. I should have liked to have had time to get into the party political debate that SV has put up with. It is – fortunately – not enough time, and I am very aware that I also do not have the freedom of the staging representatives for as tough polemics as I could have liked. But I just have to say, you big world what some people can make themselves believe about the Right! It's probably a part that has a certain need to adjust to reality and see what we really stand for. Unfortunately, some replicators have not succeeded today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e816	I think I'm going to try to avoid challenging the foreign minister's dignity in the Chamber, but I would like to stress that what we've been holding out in today's debate is the long-term perspective primarily in relation to what actually works in the fight against terrorism. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is in a very difficult situation with regard to the actual situation in Afghanistan, which is unbridled, and which will require very much attention and many initiatives by Norway during the coming period. With regard to the long-term issues, which are about how to prevent the establishment of new and more fanatical environments and the recruitment of terrorists in five or ten years' time – for this form of extreme terrorism, where people are putting their own lives at stake, it is terribly difficult to defend themselves against – I would like to know what strategy the Foreign Minister intends to pursue internationally to prevent further recruitment to terrorism. This applies both to the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, which has now been burdened and broken with those who are behind the actions that have been against the Taliban, but, as we know, the home country of many of those who have carried out the terrorist actions in New York, and to Turkey, where moderate Muslim parties – if they had changed religion, they would have been somewhat like the Christian People's Party in Norway – banned, and how often is such that if one is to do democratic opposition work, one is drawn to the only place where it is possible to meet, namely the mosque. And that means in the long run that you can get more extreme environments than you would have in democratic societies where there is an opportunity for open debate and where elementary human rights are respected. I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say something about how he intends to fight terrorism in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e827	Let me first say that I thought it was terribly sad that Kristin Halvorsen was not willing to challenge my dignity. I had a few things I would have liked to say, but I realize that she is not particularly concerned about hearing. I'm also a little confused about the next question. I almost see it as an invitation to keep the Prime Minister's posts one more time, because it was a broad account he gave to the Storting. But if you think about what elements we should have in the issue of international combating terrorism, there are probably two important tracks – but it must not excuse the terror that is here. First of all, I believe that it is very important that we work for open societies, for democratic societies, for market-economy societies, where tolerance stands as an important part of the value set. The second is that for Norway, it must be important to have a strategy to achieve economic security in large parts of the world that do not now have it. We are pursuing this through better market access to the rich countries, we are pursuing it through aid activities, as two important policy tools in this context. But as simple as saying that terror is a poverty issue, you can't do it. Bin Laden is as you know, a very rich man. And it's quite obvious that for the core of this organization there are other reasons. Thirdly – I understand that Thorbjørn Jagland has called for earlier in the debate today – we believe it is important to continue work on reconciliation and peace in the Middle East, where I think everyone agrees that it is the Mitchell report that is the basis for what is to be done. It's important to get control of the violence, and then you get to move on from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e836	As if the problems in Afghanistan are not big enough, with bin Laden on Afghan soil, war and rival groups that have fought each other for decades, Afghanistan is also located in an unstable area of the world. The diplomatic work on all the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan must therefore be intensified in our view. Afghanistan's neighbouring country must be involved in the ongoing international work, and we must ensure that these neighbouring countries have a humanitarian rather than a political issue with Afghanistan. This will definitely be a challenge for Norway, not least as head of the Afghanistan Support Group. Norway is per year. Today, very weakly represented in the region, and my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about the Government in the future, not least on the basis of the leadership responsibility of the support group, will strengthen Norway’s diplomatic presence and involvement in the region around Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e843	It is such that the responsibility that Åslaug Haga mentioned is a responsibility that we get from 1 January next year, and that means that this government is now working on the arrangement for how we are going to tackle this work. It's a work where the framework conditions evolve strongly day by day, as we've seen, and it's very important now to get a set-up for this work, so that the different actors don't get into each other's feet, but that you really do work together, so you get the maximum use of the resources. So this work is developing. The government hasn't been sitting for more than three weeks, so I'm not saying we're done with it, but that we're going to be done with it in good time. What organizational consequences we need to subtract from it, I have to come back to when we see it closer to the arrangement for this work. But I fully agree with Mr Haga that it is important that the surrounding countries respect the political processes that must now be initiated under UN leadership and organisation. I guess my impression is that in many ways, too, it could be the result. I think everyone is aware that if we are to prevent a further escalation of the flow of refugees, it is important to achieve a safe development within Afghanistan, so that individual groups of people do not extend this to similar groups in other countries. I believe in many ways that the fact that the UN now has such a central role in the future will ensure that these things are going to be properly coordinated and done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e850	I think the Foreign Minister is moving on a very general level when it comes to what actually works in the long term in the fight against terrorism, and how to ensure that we prevent increased recruitment to terrorism. I can ask quite specifically: will the Foreign Minister take initiatives towards the United States and Saudi Arabia in order to put pressure on that regime's violation of human rights, so that one can ensure more democratic development? Question 2 relates to Turkey: Is it such that the Foreign Minister will take up and provide an international pressure against Turkey in relation to developing Turkey into a more democratic country, with greater room for political expansion and participation? In both of these areas, in the long term, what kind of pressure is put on these countries is actually important. And they are now allies in the fight against terrorism. Then I'm a little surprised by the strategy I saw the Foreign Minister had in connection with his meeting with Powell. It turned out from the newspapers – roughly speaking – that what was happening to Jan Petersen in his meeting with Powell was not to say anything that could provoke, for here it was to do a communication, and it was supposed initially to assume that one critical word was not said. But I don't think it's particularly interesting for some foreign minister to talk to someone who just nodded and agrees with every single word that comes. On the contrary, it must be much more important for a foreign minister, in such a difficult situation, that it is certain that serious objections and aspects of a conflict are raised. Is it really such that the Foreign Minister intends to continue to have that strategy in relation to the United States that it is not a question of giving one critical word, because then you become unfamiliar?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e863	Now came Kristin Halvorsen where I had hoped she had come in the first round – after listening to a part of the debate. I just have to say first what she said to the first question she asked, that she thought I gave a little general answer, that general questions would give general answers – and the question to Kristin Halvorsen in the previous round was quite general. But then to the question of the relationship with the United States. I have been listening to the debate here, and I have the impression that it is in SV as well that you don't have an independent position unless you mean anything other than the United States. And you're going to have to add up to this on every occasion. It is not true that in some areas Norway does not have opinions other than those of the United States. And if Kristin Halvorsen needs proof of that, I just want to say that I made an article in New York now about the test stop agreement that hardly was American politics, to say it that way. It's coming naturally, and it's going to be okay, and it's a wonderful objection that from SV's point of view you're trying to say that I and my party are so-called nodded dolls in relation to the United States. That's not right. But at the same time, I stress that we have a very fundamental community with the United States, not least now, where there has been a need to stand together in the fight against terrorism, and where it is important to hold together a great international coalition to repress terrorism, and to reach an agreement on what needs to be done. That coalition has held very well together, and I think Norway has done the right job in that context. But then it's like SV obviously needs to vent its anti-Americanism at any time. Now, of course, I know that one should not reproach the leopard because it has spots, and the SV was in many ways started with very strong elements of anti-Americanism. But the fact that, like absolutely all the time, you have to disagree, even in the difficult situation we are now facing, I think I'm going too far. We talk about the things we agree on, and we talk about the things we disagree about. And I'm going to have many, many opportunities to talk to Secretary of State Powell in the future. It's that simple. With regard to the question of influence in a democratic direction, there is a general desire from Norway towards many countries to ensure that we have a move towards democracy and human rights. It may require slightly different strategies in relation to different countries, but we can come back to that on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e878	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e881	There are some moments in the story that make us stop. On 11 September there was such a day when there was a difference between before and after. We have seen terror and violence before, but not in such a comprehensive, cynical and planned way, with as many consequences as we saw on 11 September. Norway participates in the alliance against terrorism. It is a broad alliance, an alliance spanning continents, cultures and religious denominations. And it's an alliance that's proven strong enough to stand firm, even in demanding moments. The fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means alone. That is why the fight on many fronts is being waged: by political action, among other things. through clear and broadly anchored decisions at the UN, through financial measures, including: through rapid and comprehensive action against financial networks that have supported terrorism, through stronger police and intelligence cooperation and through a strengthening of national preparedness. Norway has made an active contribution under the Labour Party Government and under the current Government. This is also most about our own security, and the Government has the full support of the Workers' Party for a clear and clear profile. If the battle cannot be won by military means alone, it cannot be won without the use of military power. From our part of the world there is a heavy recognition, as it was when NATO took up military power in Bosnia and Kosovo. It is understandable that many feel uncomfortable and ask questions when the images of the acts of war reach us. Now the fights have brought the Taliban to a break. A grossly oppressive regime may be on its way out. And the terrorist network has suffered lasting damage and deterioration. It says quite clearly: this would not have been possible without the targeted use of military power. So we are approaching the time to build the new Afghanistan. It is a task primarily for Afghans, but where the UN, the countries of the region and the whole world community have a role to play. It must not be the way it was after previous warriors, that the world is turning its back on the Afghan people when the acts of war ebb out. For a long time, several have pointed out that without peace in the Middle East, the world will be insecure. It's even clearer now. World society must contribute in such a way that both parties start negotiations on peace. Bin Laden uses the situation of the Palestinians in the Middle East as part of his argument for his actions. There is no doubt that the conflict is part of building up under frustration, which is becoming fanaticism among many Muslims in the Arab countries. It is too easy to say that poverty is the explanation of terror. Osama bin Laden doesn't come from poor corps. And the Taliban community that fought for, has brought Afghanistan more poverty, oppression and underdevelopment. But it's good coverage to say that where poverty comes in, terror can more easily rot. The right to development, the right to health, the right to education and the security of fundamental human rights are important for all people, but are also important in order to create a safer world. We feel that the attacks on New York must also be understood as an attack on us all. Similarly, we must perceive the poverty and distress of others as an attack on our values. We must take an active part in the global fight against poverty. I am therefore pleased that the government has chosen to stand by the increase in the aid budget. What happened on 11 September has had many consequences. It has become clear that we need more policy, not less. It concerns both nationally and internationally to address the challenges related to the terrorist threat, but also in order to ensure international security. In the last decade, the world has become more global, not least economically. With it also follows a vulnerability that we haven't seen the depth of before it narrowed in New York. The only answer to this is that policy must follow up on an international level. The solution lies in more democracy, more community and stronger political visions, followed by concrete political action, in a world where too many people live in poverty and oppression and without fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e909	The fight against terrorism has begun to reap fruit. Diplomatic work has created a political alliance with the support of most of the world's countries. Extensive police cooperation has been put in place to track down terrorist cells and to close down terrorist funding sources. Afghanistan could not remain a protected place for terrorists who planned mass killings of civilians around the world. The military strategy has now begun to produce results. It did not strengthen the Taliban, as some claim, it has led the Taliban forces away from large parts of the country. A lot of people change sides. This has opened new possibilities. Firstly, without the Taliban's iron grip, new supply routes from the north are now being opened for emergency aid, food, medicine and a lot of other people need. The military procedure provides for a strong strengthening of humanitarian efforts. World society must now support and quickly begin the reconstruction of the country. Secondly, the progress and the Taliban’s surrender of the capital Kabul allow the UN to put full force into the work of establishing a new regime, with the participation of all ethnic groups in the country. And the most urgent thing is to put in place forces that can prevent anarchy, revenge and unnecessary violence, for which unfortunately there are strong traditions in this area. Thirdly, it must be a pleasure for everyone to see how the Afghans, after the flight of the Taliban, can live again with greater freedom. One of the world's most women-discriminatory regimes is on the defensive. Girls can go to school again, women can once again have the freedom to go out and go to work. But we must not forget that the Taliban still has control of important parts of Afghanistan. And even though many of the terrorist training camps are destroyed, Osama bin Laden and the top management of al-Qaeda are not yet under arrest. Military action against terrorists and their supporters must therefore continue. But the fight against international terrorism is not only being waged on the battlefield, and not primarily there. It involves a wide range of instruments, including various political, diplomatic, legal and economic initiatives and actions. Important work is being done within international organisations. In the case of the Middle East conflict, on which the chairman of the Committee was involved, this government also has an active involvement. One of the first things I did as Prime Minister was to contact Prime Minister Sharon and President Yasir Arafat. I appealed to them to put an end to violence and terror, to Israel withdrawing from Area A, and to reopen negotiations on a solution to the conflict. A stable solution can only be achieved through negotiations, as Mr Jagland expressed it, and this must include security for Israel and self-determination and a state for the Palestinians, in line with UN decisions. SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, said that first, second and third commandments are that we have to think in the long term, and will what we're doing now, in that way help? Yes, we should think in the long term, but we also had to act decisively and fairly quickly just to prevent cruel, long-term effects. SV's options, not to intervene with military actions, could be perceived as a message to bin Laden and other terrorists that the international community does not intervene against their deeds. It could invite you to new acts of terror. At the same time, work on long-term measures needs to be stepped up, inter alia. poverty reduction, respect for human rights, conflict resolution and conflict prevention and dialogue between religious leaders. The fight against international terrorism will not be over with the fall of the Taliban. It will take several years and will require a lot of resources. It's a fight we can't afford to lose. It's about our common future. To win, we have to stand together both nationally and internationally. Without cohesion and common effort, we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e934	I want to challenge the Prime Minister to express his opinion on that proposal – No. 2 – which SV has promoted to the debate today, and which is actually an initiative of the September Bishops' Meeting to hold a special session in the UN against terrorism. The reason for that proposal is that in a completely different way, countries are obliged both to prepare themselves and to follow-up, and that it is an effective way to get all countries in the world to discuss in depth the contribution they can make in the fight against terrorism. I should have liked the Prime Minister's views on this proposal. The second thing I have on my heart is the question of class bombs. I believe that the statement made by the Prime Minister for the Storting was surprisingly cautious and defensive when it came to following the decision made by the Storing, which is about working internationally for the ban on class bombs. I would like to hear Mr Bondevik's opinion on this as, among other things, Norwegian People's Aid says. They say that tons of U.S. class bombs have been pushed down over Afghanistan over the last few weeks, and many of the areas they have now labored to clear are no longer available or are uncertain about their availability. Norsk Folkehelp's side also denies that there are ‘smart’ or ‘smart’ class bombs. These are bombs that kill both in and after the war. One is now in a situation where one can hope that one can quickly get into a reconstruction phase, where Norway has an important role to play. In what way will the Prime Minister immediately address the question of full stop in the use of class bombs and of available information for mine clearers, so as to know which areas are actually unsafe?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e943	As regards SV's proposal No. 2, on a possible special session in the UN in the fight against terrorism, I would like to stress that the ongoing UN General Assembly is very much devoted to this topic because of the current situation. In addition, it is now important to give priority to a rapid follow-up to the Security Council, which has, of course, been faced with the situation. But I do not overlook the fact that a special session such as this proposal advocates may be a useful, complementary framework for the longer-term work in this field. However, it is important that this does not weaken the commitment of nations to a rapid follow-up to the binding and comprehensive decisions of the Security Council on terrorism. I would therefore – although I should not interfere with the work of the Stortingen – have seen it as appropriate if this proposal could be submitted without a substantive bill today. With regard to the follow-up to the Storing Decision to work for a ban on the use of class bombs, the Government will exert full force in that work. We have so far followed a two-part strategy. For the first time and in the short term, in the framework of the negotiations held in Geneva, Norway has worked to bring together an agreement on a ban on the use of class bombs in densely populated areas, on the reduction of the so-called incidence of the blind, and on the establishment of an expert group for a more in-depth discussion of the issue of the use of class bombs, which will promote concrete proposals for further follow-up. In addition, at the next stage of work, which will increase in Geneva in December, we will discuss with allies and other neighbouring countries the possibility of achieving the objective of a general ban on class bombs. I'll also find that natural to deal with the United States. With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, it is important as soon as the acts of war are over, that one also pursues the process of clearing up mines that have remained in Afghanistan, both after previous acts of war and after they are in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e954	I am pleased that the Prime Minister does not exclude a special session of the UN General Assembly at a later date. I had probably hoped that he had a little more commitment to it, because such a special session must be prepared very carefully. That work should start now. Then you have from three to five months to implement it. But my question also relates to class bombs. It is such that the International Red Cross Committee is the largest authority in international humanitarian law. The Committee has asked for a break in the use of class bombs until there is a works of agreement in this area, on the one hand regulating the use and, on the other hand, regulating who is responsible for, and how, cleaning is to be carried out. The International Red Cross Committee is very cautious in its opinions. It has e.g. not to decide whether it is wise to bomb or not to bomb in Afghanistan, because it does not wish to interfere with the kind of political debate. But the International Red Cross Committee is quite clear about the requirement for a break in use of class bombs. The Christian People's Party tends to be concerned with the advice of the International Red Cross Committee. In view of the current situation in Afghanistan, they do not appear to be. Class bombs are being used in Afghanistan now, and the government is sitting quietly in relation to it, sailing if one has plans in the long term. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party believe that it is possible to maintain an international legal order if we do not comply with the advice of the greatest authority on international humanitarian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e963	The government has an involvement in the fight against the use of class bombs. There's no doubt about it. The size has made a decision. The government will follow up on that. And since the representative Haga mentioned the Prime Minister's own party, this party – that will be known to the representative Haga – also has an commitment to this issue. Norway's position is clear. It's made known to the United States. This is a United States/British-led action in Afghanistan. We have been made familiar with information provided by the British Government in the House of Commons about this, after being asked to investigate it. I have explained this in the past. When that information was provided, it was said that class bombs were used against five military targets — a training camp for terrorists, four military Taliban positions — and that none of them should have time settings for so-called delayed explosion. But we ourselves want to find out more, and the Government's position is clear in this area: we want to get restrictions and, if possible – in the long term – a ban on class bombs with delayed explosions, which represent some of the same humanitarian problem as anti-personnel mines. That is why the International Red Cross Committee is also responsible for this work, a commitment shared by the Government. That is why we also have a commitment to this in the discussions that are taking place in Geneva.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e970	As a new representative, you try to read the staging propositions from perm to perm. You sometimes get some surprises. A piece out in St. Prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the heading ‘International Criminal Court [[ICC]] ‘Since the United States and Japan will not contribute to the International Criminal Court in 2002, Norway’s share of the total budget will be higher than 1 pst.’ What does this tell us about the willingness to participate in building an international legal society? I'm afraid that it's coming into the line in terms of unwillingness to get to an international legal order. We all know well about the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which deals with disputes between states. Albania and the United States are the only two who have been judged against themselves that have not been followed up. Both were convicted for mining at sea, respectively in the Corfu Strait and in Nicaraguan ports. Less well-known – and recognised – is the International Criminal Court, which must have the power to prosecute and judge individuals who have committed genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The International Criminal Court was given its statutes in July 1998 and they are signed by a number of States. For the establishment of the Court of Justice, ratification by at least 60 countries is required. So far, only 47 countries have ratified, but it is estimated that the Court will operate from the next harvest and have seats in The Hague. The establishment of this International Criminal Court is described as a highlight of individual obligations and responsibilities in relation to international law. My question is, what can the Prime Minister do to improve the international legal order and this special criminal court?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e984	I agree with the representative Jacobsen on the importance of expanding an international legal order and, in this context, also getting an effective international criminal court. Norway has been involved in this, and so will we. What we will be able to do in this case is to appeal to all the countries of the world to contribute to the financing and construction of the court, and of course to the necessary ratification so that the work of the court comes to fruition. We will be able to do this both at the political level and at the diplomatic level through the channels we are in this way. Norway has always been a supporter of the establishment of an international legal order, and the intentions referred to here by the representative share the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e991	First, I can say that SV is prepared to comply with the Prime Minister's wish to make proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. I think maybe the Prime Minister is moving a little slowly forward. But if we don't need help from higher powers to get him up speed, we may need the help of some bishops – so now it would be well-placed so that they can ‘glob’ intensely towards the Prime Minister on this issue. So the question of class bombs. I expect that the situation in Afghanistan is now militaryly such that bombings are about to be closed, and that in relation to the big issue of securing the elementary rights of people and securing people against abuse, it is actually on the ground that it is taking place. But if you can't be sure about it, I would ask the Prime Minister to immediately put an end to the use of class bombs in Afghanistan, because this is a country that has so much been hit by mining from before, that it is 16 pst. which is unavailable. A good miner clears 20 square feet in one day. It's a very laborious work. The other thing I want to ask is that he deals with this with US and British authorities so that you get a very clear overview of where these bombs actually landed. This will facilitate work in relation to the very regrettable clean-up operation that needs to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e998	Yes, we want to get more information about the use of class bombs during the war in Afghanistan. What's the problem is a so-called delayed explosion, in so far as bombs are used by a category that works that way, and that's what we want to work for an international ban on. I agree with the representative of Halvorsen that it is important now that, hopefully, the war acts do not end for too long, to get information about where there might be such bombs, so that you can get a quick clean-up and harmlessness of them. In terms of mine clearance, I myself, the last time I was prime minister, visited a few projects, such as: Norwegian People's Aid affordable is engaged in. Therefore, I know a little about how difficult this work is. I share Mr. Halvorsen's commitment to having restrictions on and in the long term bans on the use of the type of weapon that remains on the ground, which can explode and damage innocent civilians long after the acts of war are over. I'm also going to prepare that attitude for the U.S. authorities when I plan to travel to the United States in the first week of December.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1005	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1010	There is full agreement on combating all terrorism, and no one has forgotten 11 September. Nevertheless, half of the Norwegian people are opposed to the bomb war. I think it was very wrong to start bombing against Afghanistan. This conflict is not between states, but it is between the international community and a network of terrorists that are located in many places. The bomb war strikes innocent people, it has created fear, it chases hundreds of thousands of refugees – many have been killed, others have become homeless and homeless, and the infrastructure of a country is badly damaged. I fear that this only leads to an increase in hatred and a greater basis for increased terrorism, and that we can get a spiral of terrorism that terrorists want. And one of the leaders of them is still not caught. I heard the Prime Minister say that humanitarian aid has increased sharply since the bombing started. Measuring the humanitarian situation in the number of tonnes of food consumed above the border is like producing billions of profits to the richest in Norway as a targeted uplift for the poorest. Auxiliary organisations have given a different image. The situation has become dramatically worse for hundreds of thousands, they say. We should have learned from the other wars in which Norway has participated or supported, and we should have received a report to the Stortinget on the results in relation to the goals set. The Gulf War has caused enormous damage, hundreds of thousands of innocent people killed. The Bosnian War and the Kosovo War hit very many other people than the evil leaders. Ethnic cleansing, major refugee problems, and more hate were the results. Reconstruction in this country is slow. The will to bomb is greatest. Finally, let me remind you of the Tampa refugees, 432 Afghans fleeing from a country where they don't dare be. Everyone condemned Australia that wouldn't help. It was the most prosperous who managed to escape. No one, fortunately, asked if one or ten of them supported the Taliban. Had they not been able to escape, perhaps some of them would have been soldiers, voluntarily or under compulsion, and could have been lying in the wallbreaking today and being counted as enemies of us. To me too, the lives of the common soldiers are valuable. Then I heard Thorvald Stoltenberg on TV when his book was launched. He told about his doubt and went far in saying that he had difficulty pointing to one modern war in our neighbourhood that had been worth the price. He mentioned the Kosovo war in particular. It was good to hear about that doubt. It is a pity it is not heard in the statement from the Government and in the posts after which there has been a change of lines after today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1026	I would like to join in all the praise that the Prime Minister has received for a very good, thorough and nuanced presentation. It addresses the facts of the case, the dilemma and the challenges of the case, and concludes with the necessary action required of political leadership. Everything now suggests that the military action has had its intended effect, and that this was necessary to deprive bin Laden of his operational capability and protection. The hunt for putting him and his network in charge will continue. I agree with those who said earlier in the debate that without the military attacks, bin Laden's infrastructure and support would have been intact, with the result that we had received possible new actions. It is also a fact that in many years there has not been as much humanitarian aid to Afghanistan as it is now, and it has happened in parallel with the military attacks. The collapse of the Taliban regime, at least in large parts of the country, also offers opportunities to distribute humanitarian aid much easier. As the representative Oddvard Nilsen pointed out, the ongoing war on terrorism is a battle on a broad front with a broad range of instruments. Now, hopefully, the main focus will shift from military action to humanitarian and political action. That's what can build and create lasting solutions. The international community has supported the removal of the Taliban as the protectors of terrorism and thus also oppressors of its own people. Then the international community must also take responsibility for the fact that the Afghan people have a better future and do not enter into new oppression, new wars and internal unrest. The UN is prepared to do so and has Norway's full support in the work of a peaceful Afghanistan based on respect for human rights and for democracy. The battlefield cannot be left to random new rulers without broad legitimacy in the people. The freedom Afghan women experience today, must be the beginning, not just a little bluff. The basis for this appears to have been laid, but there is a need to get control of the situation. The fight against terrorism has not won at all, and it will continue on many fronts and for many years. It was necessary after 11 September to bring together an international front to take the fight with a completely different seriousness than before, with all the dilemmas that come with choosing to use the military. But we're talking about a defense fight against forces that can be able to destroy everything we believe in, and everything we fight for. In such a struggle, one cannot be naive, and one cannot free oneself from the unpleasant decisions required by political leadership. The left is satisfied with the way the Government and the Prime Minister have handled this. Norway is part of the solidarity front against terrorism, and not outside. We hope that the military part of the struggle will be over as soon as possible, and that we can continue to focus on peace, trust, freedom, democracy and the inviolability of human rights and on combating poverty and injustice in all countries. It is the most important and best way to prevent new acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1041	I have to say that both the previous and the current government have contributed disappointingly little information that has allowed people to assess the situation in Afghanistan in a balanced way. We do not believe in the information that the United States and the United Kingdom choose to go out with at any time, whether it is the safety of bombs, the type of bombs or the agenda of the North Alliance. I can refer you to Dagbladet's interview with the spokesperson for Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting yesterday or what we have learned afterwards about how the American propaganda apparatus worked during the Gulf War. We are many who have questioned the Norwegian Government's willingness to collect balanced information, or to what extent one has at all been critical of American considerations in the course of this war. I wonder if it's ever taken steps to know what kind of bombs are being used in Afghanistan. I never heard that such a problem was raised from the Norwegian Government, or that ever Norwegian demand was made, for example. had to avoid class bombs. As far as I know, both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have voted that we should work for an international ban on these types of bombs. I also wonder that no one, as far as I know, from the official Norwegian team has questioned that we have allied ourselves with obvious dictatorship states and countries that systematically violate human rights. I have little faith that during this process some demands have been made that e.g. Saudi Arabia must change its policy towards the civilian population or towards Saudi women. For SV, it is essential that human rights do not become relative rights, depending on who you want to cooperate with at all times. Finally, I would like to say that I have in particular wondered about the rapid connection to the bombing strategy that was gradually being pursued. Have alternative solutions been considered at all? Have you been interested in evaluating alternative solutions? I ask because I have never heard high-ranking people make assessments in that direction, other than dismissing the possibility that they exist. What we now see happening in Afghanistan, I would strongly warn against taking income because the strategy you have chosen has worked out. It is very important that a person should be informed as soon as possible that human rights violations have consequences. It is very important to find out how to behave if anarchy breaks out and how to deal with uprisings during the fixed month Ramadan. And we must not take for granted that the agenda of the North Alliance is the same as that of the West. In the SV's view, the best weapons against terrorism are the opposite of terrorists' own, namely human rights, development and democracy. No one has so far been able to convince me that the bombing strategy is a ludicrous strategy, the aim of which is to combat terrorism wherever it might arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1054	The Peace Prize winner Elie Wiesel has previously described indifference as one of mankind's foremost enemies. Today, there is once again reason to stress how important it is that indifference does not control our lives and attitudes. We don't have to care about the passengers on Flight 11 from Boston, we don't have to care about the thousands of employees at the World Trade Center in New York, and we don't have to care about hundreds of fire and rescue teams who had to give their lives in the work to save others. And we must not be indifferent to the terror as the being. Part of the debate here at home shows that we both have bad memory, and that we don't care about the true face of terror and evil. It's at the same time only a little over 60 years since evil also showed its true face. Then the evil had borne. Today it's got a motherfucking baby. The free world then took a settlement with the evil, a settlement we in the free world today can reap the benefits of. And then there were many who showed indifference and understanding of the theories and evil. "Peace in our hour," it sounded so tempting, while you could hear the sound of Hitler's marching soldiers and advancing tanks. Fortunately, indifference did not prevail. We wanted to be free people. But it cost enormous sacrifices in death and mutilation. However, they died for our freedom. Today, freedom is again threatened. A broad coalition stands up for freedom from terror and oppression. Fortunately, almost all political Norway has stood up to defend freedom. The indifference has, with a few exceptions, not rooted. I should therefore like to commend Prime Minister Bondevik for his good report. It was comprehensive, structured and unreasonable. Indifference has not been given root. That is why it is important that we now stand together in political Norway at the time. Today, it is the military instruments that are in focus. In parallel with this, there is also a wide range of work in other fields. The fight against terror and evil also looked difficult after the defeat of Dunkerque. It could be tempting to give up, the time that now. We're not going to give up. Indifference shall not win. Of course, those who cry out at home about bombing are going to be allowed to do so in a free and democratic social system. That's what we're defending! However, the height of the fall may become high for some when, in some cases, we will have a rational and objective debate on the Norwegian attitude to the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1065	At the SV initiative, the Stortinget took our decision to ask the Government to provide active support for international work that could lead to a ban on class bombs. It was joyous. However, it is less gratifying that we in SV now need to call for the executive power of the Christian People's Party, who are involved in adopting requests that they do not follow up sufficiently when they come into government. This applies not least to the use of class bombs in Afghanistan and to demonstrating active resistance to this use. Kjell Magne Bondevik said in his presentation, among others. ‘the use of class bombs in Afghanistan has, according to our information, been limited and aimed at clearly identified military objectives.’ This is not consistent with reality. According to Human Rights Watch, class bombs were used on five occasions during the first week of Afghanistan. Furthermore, a U.N. spokesman said on October 22 that class bombs had hit a village near the Palatinate, and that nine had been killed and 14 injured. What's happened after this, we don't know. The class bombs used in Afghanistan are of the same type as those used in Kosovo. A bomb contains a few hundred small bombs scattered over large areas. The bombs have three functions: they're armor-breaking, they're bursting into a lot of small parts that can damage people in the wide perimeter, and they're also fire bombs. There are many different types of class bombs. But a common feature for them all is that they contain between 5 and 15 pst. blind gangsters. That's not the only problem with the class bombs. First, the class bombs have poor precision; second, the small bombs that do not explode immediately pose a high safety risk because they are so unstable that they go off at the slightest touch. The clearing of the class bombs is also an extremely difficult challenge. They may not be mechanically cleaned or by means of dogs or metal detectors. As we understand, there are good reasons to get rid of this kind of weapon. The International Red Cross Committee has drawn up a thorough outline of the content of a ban on class bombs. This has been done in advance of the meeting on the Conventional Arms Agreement to be held in December. The Socialist Left Party expects the Government to go out offensively in connection with this meeting and to follow up the clear decision of the Storting. In the opinion of the SV, Norway should play a leading role with the International Red Cross and international forums in this work, in line with the best of our humanitarian traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1076	11 September will be remembered as the day when the world woke up in relation to international terrorism. Never before have we so clearly seen the threat in this term. In the Western world, until September 11th, we have believed that we would not be able to experience events like this. The spontaneous reaction to this terrible attack on human dignity was disbelief and dismay. It was at this moment that a new and unique situation arose: a global alliance was formed against terror. The UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1368 the day after the attack. NATO gave unequivocal support to the United States and condemned the terrorist attacks. The attacks led to the entry into force of Article 5. The Norwegian Government acted resolutely and neatly in this situation and has the full support of the Advance Party for its line. In a situation where it is recognised that the attacks targeting the United States have been an attack on the entire alliance, we have to stand together. It is therefore very unfortunate that Norwegian policy situations arise where Norway is being questioned whether or not it supports the fight against terrorism. Any matter that contributes to such doubt serves the terrorists. In the future, Norway will have to demonstrate loyalty and initiative in its relationship with NATO. The United States is in a special position in this situation. They have linked alliances across former ideological and religious divisions, and deserve honor for this. We are now facing a new threat picture which is less concrete in the sense that it is not linked to a geographical limitation. In meeting this threat, it is important to actively participate in the design of NATO internal policies in this area. Norway must also take an active part in this debate in the UN Security Council. Nationally, we must also take inward this threat. It's through action, and not just through debates, we can meet this and other threats. Defence and police must be provided with funds and trained to prevent and combat situations that may arise as a result of terrorism. A war against terror will take time and require great resources. We must not get into the situation that politicians in this country are now questioning the will and ability to face this kind of threat. To preserve our way of life, it is essential to show the will to protect it, and thus the will and ability to combat the forces that want to break down our democratic, free and open societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1091	The terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September were horrendous acts, and there is every reason that the whole world is united in taking complete distance from them. There are actions that scare us, and that make us all feel the need to defend ourselves against that kind of terrorist act. But – and this is an important but – it is not the first time we see, around the world, that terrorists are under attack and that the civilian population is hit. It's happened over and over again. Unfortunately, the Western world has often failed to react, despite the fact that genocide has occurred in a number of countries, as experienced in Cambodia — or the use of napalm in Vietnam in relation to the population, or a number of acts of terror have been reported in the Middle East. And what we are seeing over and over again is that the freedom fighter of one country is the terrorist of another country. What we really have to take care of is to wear some kind of glasses that make us accept some kind of action that affects the civilian population, while we don't do it if we notice that we ourselves, as part of the Western world, can be threatened. In many ways, the new thing about the threat picture is that it is noted that the United States and the civilian population in the United States can also be victims of terrorist attacks. The new is not a terrorist attack, it is that the civilian population in our part of the world is completely different from before. And it surprises me that so few of those who speak in this debate today are concerned about the passivity the West has shown in other countries that have been hit, how self-centered we are in our defence of our own culture, and how little analysts become as to the causes of that kind of terrorist activity. Menachem Begin, for example, took part in terrorist activities in 1946 when he was involved in a bombing attack on a hotel in Jerusalem. He's later been awarded the Peace Prize. There are many of these examples. That's why you have to somehow figure out what it is that creates acts of terrorism, and how we can prevent it from happening again. There has been the whole message that SV has given here today, and as far as I see, none of the other parties are willing to go into it. If the consequence of what we are doing now in Afghanistan is that the terrorist image is further reinforced, how can the majority in this Chamber defend it? We see in the United States that the democrats now go out and strongly oppose the changes in laws that Bush has initiated. I have not heard anyone from the other parties who has warned against it here today. What could happen when we in Norway become a bigger defender of a republican president in the United States than his own party traps and opponents of opinion in the United States? This must give cause for concern for others other than SV. It surprises me that it should not be possible to hold a debate in this Chamber where the consequences of the acts of war are problem-solving without being suspected of being the defenders of the terrorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1102	I believe that the debate today has shown that there is a very broad consensus on the policy we have pursued after 11 September. I am pleased that the debate has also shown that much will be focused on what needs to be done further. In the case of emergency relief work, in the case of reconstruction in Afghanistan, and in the case of long-term policy solutions which must also include how to prevent further development of terrorism. The last thing I want to do is to elaborate a little bit more. I see in an article by Gerald F. Seib in The Wall Street Journal from yesterday a reference to one in Afghanistan now having a population of 42 pst. is under 14 years of age. In Pakistan, it's 40 pst. who is under 14 years of age, and in Palestine actually 45 pst. A majority of the population in these countries are therefore children and young people. It goes without saying that if you in that age group don't get enough food and don't get school, you're vulnerable and are easily attracted to extreme groups. I think this is a relationship that one has to take inwards, that in these countries there is reason to focus a lot on a whole new and young generation that represents the main weight of the population of the countries. If they are not satisfied with primary needs such as people and citizens, not being educated and not having a vision to live for, they are also getting an ever-increasing recruitment to the environments we want to combat, which recruit for terrorism. In this context, I believe that it is essential in the work that must be done with regard to these countries to show respect for their peculiarity and culture, as a basis for gaining the confidence of the people – especially of the young generation that is growing up – that they be respected by the country and culture of the West and that they can cooperate with us. In any subsequent follow-up work from the United Nations, if it had to become a separate session at a later stage, I think this is a relationship that one should take inwards and elaborate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1117	I agree with what Mr Ballo said, that it is difficult to be consistent in foreign policy. But the fact that we have been passive in some conflicts in the past cannot be used as an argument for being passive in this situation as well. The terrorist act of 11 September is quite unique. It is clearly different from many other acts of terrorism by the fact that it was initiated by a powerful network that we have hardly seen in mind. The Al-Qaida network has enormous resources. They're protected by a regime that's shot at power, and that's one of the most brutal things we've ever seen. The goal is to kill as many civilians as possible. On September 11th, Osama bin Laden was actually the fourth time. During this debate, we have not been told what Kristin Halvorsen's alternative is, and what it might involve. If Kristin Halvorsen had been a member of the Government, let's say Secretary of State, she must have thought through the consequences of what she is proposing and going in for. She mentions that the option is diplomacy and talks with the Taliban, but it has actually been tried for several years, without it having gone on. Would Norway be the only country in the world to break out of this broad alliance? We see that countries like Iran and Libya are now being burdened and broken with the West and the United States, and then Norway should be the only country that breaks out and will not join in the joint military actions? The representative Halvorsen said in a reply that she could not understand that I was not at all concerned with long-term solutions. I want to say that I am very concerned about it. The particular situation in Pakistan is worrying. Firstly, the 54-year conflict between India and Pakistan over Kashmir represents the most potentially dangerous conflict in the world because both countries have nuclear weapons. Secondly, Pakistan is now in financial trouble. When they of a government budget of approx. $100 billion spends 70 pst. of it on the payment of interest and repayment of debt, everyone sees it as very problematic. When they use almost the rest of the defense, it's totally unsustainable. It is a dangerous situation, also political, when you have such conditions economically. Therefore, I believe it is important that Norway now assess what can be done multilaterally to improve the debt situation for Pakistan. We also need to step up the assistance considerably. Otherwise we can also experience a dangerous situation in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1126	We have been asked to choose a page in the last few months – against the terrorists and for the United States. I like to take a stand against terrorism, but the question is whether it necessarily means being for the United States. Is it the case that the United States is fighting terrorism? The world's two leading recipients of American weapons are Colombia and Turkey, closely followed by Israel. What does it say about the United States' fight against terrorism? Colombia is the country that leads the gloomy statistics of being the largest in the number of human rights violations in the 1990s. The U.S. weapons supplies maintain the terror, war, and human rights violations that keep the conflict alive. The arms flow to Turkey increased sharply from 1984. What happened in 1984? Well, that was the year Turkey for real started its war against the Kurds east of the country. What was the result? We got two-three million refugees, ethnic cleansing, tens of thousands of killed, and 3,500 cities and villages were destroyed. Isn't that terror, too? The U.S. got 80 pst. of the weapons the Turks needed. And what about the attacks on the Palestinians? What about the close American allies such as Saudi Arabia, one of the stagings of Amnesty International's lists of human rights violations, a fundamentalist state that executes people by stoning and stoning? The U.S. has made more military interventions in the last century than the very expansive Roman Empire did in several centuries in its time. The victims of US policy have been many. We know that the United States has been willing to support dictators and outlaws if they're just willing to stand on the side of the United States – like Pinochet, like Mobutu and Suharto, and like Osama bin Laden. During the 1980s, the United States built and financed a army of tenants with thousands of Muslim fundamentalists to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan. Out of this, both the Taliban and other fundamentalist groups jumped. On Tuesday, 7,000 people gathered at Youngstorget in Oslo to protest against the war. There were appellants from the Inter-Church Council as well as from the Islamic Council who asked us to think about whether it might be that in the fight against terror one is about to use the methods of terror itself. There's a lot of people who should think about it. And those who are now shoulder to shoulder with the United States, should think extra carefully about it. Is it such that they support the fight against terrorism when there is terror against the United States, but not when the terror is protected and sponsored by the United States? What kind of logic is it in being against the Taliban, but still for the regime in Saudi Arabia, for the regime in Turkey, and for sponsoring the violence in Colombia? That's how the U.S. acts, and we've heard a few judgments of it from the Norwegian team. I wish that Norwegian politicians who are so concerned about supporting President Bush in a thick and thin manner would also start to focus critically on the terror that lives under the protection of the United States itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1145	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1152	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 has been converted into a transmission proposal by the proposer and amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is advised to work towards the holding of a UN Special Session against Terrorism.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the initiative to stop the acts of war in Afghanistan and to find a political solution that includes a long-term international commitment to humanitarian aid to Afghanistan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1176	The President proposes that the Prime Minister’s statement at the Stortinget meeting on 8 November 2001 on the situation following the terrorist attacks against the United States be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-15.ana.ud687e1187	There is no record.
