ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e36	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Karin Andersen from 14 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Helge Bjørnsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e54	Helge Bjørnsen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e59	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Ågot Valle and myself on a grant for the preservation of Ivo Caprino's films.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e64	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e85	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland State Council Grete Knudsen State Council Ellen Horn The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Johan J. Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e104	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So far, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have expressed a somewhat different opinion on the issue of Norwegian membership of the European Union and on a possible application. Following the debate on the Prime Minister’s presentation yesterday, the situation is somewhat clearer. Now it is the case that both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister and the party leader Thorbjørn Jagland say that Norwegian application for membership is not excluded during the next major period. The Foreign Minister has even said that even a referendum on this issue cannot be ruled out in the coming period, and this was confirmed by the Prime Minister yesterday. But at the same time, the Prime Minister says that those who want a debate on this before the elections will not meet the Labour Party – ‘they will not meet us’. And my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: Is the Labour Party's strategy that one should open up membership in the coming period, but that one does not want to participate in a debate on this issue before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e111	The announcement sent by the Government to the United Kingdom about Norway's role vis-à-vis Europe will show that we absolutely want a debate, and that we are required to have it at the most. We also believe that there is a maximum requirement that we have a certain degree of freedom of action on this issue in relation to the developments we are seeing in Europe, by the fact that the EU can be extended to 27 members, there is a process going on in Switzerland, the same in Iceland, and then we do not think it is responsible foreign policy to say that here we should not have any analysis of this issue, here we should not have any sort of debate. So this you can take it easy. All parties are given the opportunity to make their views known in writing in the Stortinget in connection with the handling of this big message, and there will, of course, also be a wide-ranging debate on all aspects of Norway's relationship with the EU. I really don't have anything more to say about it. I am pleased with the debate with those who believe that we are absolutely not going to have any kind of freedom of action in this matter over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e118	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, and take note that for his part he does not wish to put a lid on this debate, which also includes the question of membership. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees that we must have a debate going ahead of an election, in which the representatives who may decide on this issue in the next period will be elected, and I take a great deal of the way in which the answer he gave confirms that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to welcome such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e123	I am of the basic opinion that all essential issues should be addressed in an election campaign. What else are you going to have choices in this country if you're not going to put big political questions to the people in elections? But then there's another question, and that's that every single time the EU case has been up, it's been the subject of a referendum. So it is not the composition of the Storting that is crucial for Norway's relationship with the EU, that is what the people in direct elections mean. But, of course, the choice will be whether or not the Storting should have the freedom to take action to re-launch an analysis of this issue during the next majority period. There, of course, it's going to be crucial what the composition of the Storing will be like. But at the end of the seventh, the people in elections will decide this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e130	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e133	Much of what Iland says is relatively incomprehensible, because there is little reason to believe that the EU will at all have the opportunity to open extensive negotiations with Norway in the next period, simply because they have more than enough of the projects they have started themselves. My country wants this opportunity to say that Norway must have freedom of action at all times. Twice Norway has searched, and twice the Norwegian people have said no. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what mandate can a Norwegian debate take place if there is still a divided people, the large majority of the people still say no, and a government forces it to want to start membership negotiations without a mandate in the people? It has been discussed whether a referendum on Norway should be sought at all times before the possible start of a new round of negotiations with the EU in the distant future, so that those who would like Norway to enter the EU, and to have something to contribute, may be burdened. Of course, the EU would say that Norway has said no twice, why should we give Norway some special advantages, why should we give Norway the opportunity to negotiate an agreement that is different from that of the other country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e142	I think it's necessary to keep some order on the cards here. When Djupedal now says that the whole case is incomprehensible, I have to reject it. The issue is that the EU has a timetable for reaching membership agreements with a large number of countries in the middle of the next enlargement period, and it will be possible to have new membership agreements with even more countries a little further ahead, so that the EU can be enlarged to include almost the whole of Europe – that the EU can actually border to the Middle East in the south, to the Black Sea, Russia – and perhaps Norway. It is clear that we have to deal with this, and the only thing the Labour Party has agreed to is that if this happens, we should have an opportunity to sit down and analyse this situation in the Government and in the Storting and ask ourselves: What is Norway going to do in this situation? And then the whole political process has to decide if a new application is to be made. But what I understand is that you shouldn't be dealing with it at all, and we don't think that's a responsible foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e150	Kjell Magne Bondevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e153	No one opposes — on the contrary — an analysis of developments in Europe. We should have a debate on all aspects of it, also in the light of the Europe Communication promoted by the Government. The question is, of course, whether the Government is now proposing to create uncertainty about Norway’s form of association in the coming years and in the next major period. That's what this is about. However, the government’s position has been so far that something new has to be done in order for Norway to take the initiative to change the form of association, whether we have experience of a significant enlargement of the EU, or there is an envelope in Norwegian opinion. Nothing suggests that any of this will happen before one comes up to the next big shot, i.e. in 2005. And my first question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Isn't that a more correct perspective on an initiative for a possible application for membership? The second thing is going to a referendum. Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of a referendum whether we should apply at all, and is he that we also get a referendum on a possible result, which will be important to many groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e158	It's in the cards that the time Bondevik mentions is the most likely. But that is precisely why all political Norway must be prepared to go through and analyse this situation, so that, if necessary, this matter can be presented in a sensible and thorough manner. That's what the Workers' Party is in favour of. Everything will depend on the timetable that the EU has and how it will be implemented. Much will depend on what the Norwegian people will think again. We can't stand here now and decide that there won't be any changes. If there is a strong wish from a majority here in Norway that we should raise the matter again, we must be open to it. I don't think we should now decide that this is not going to happen. So we have to have a transparency about what the next enlargement period might bring about because the framework conditions change. In the case of a new referendum, I would like to respond that I think the process should be able to clarify, and there should be agreement on this among the political parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e165	Anne Enger Lahnstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e168	It is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is looking forward to a new EU debate. It is important that this is also a theme in the election campaign, because you open up both to send an application and, if necessary, to raise the question again. Then the Foreign Minister refers to the referendum, and then my simple question, for this debate we had before the referendum in 1994, whether the Labour Party will support the proposal for binding referendums – there is a proposal on it for consideration in the Stortinget – when he so clearly refers to the outcome of the referendum, or whether he will maintain the view that the Labour Party has previously been the Labour Party, namely that a referendum is advisory and not binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e175	I would like to reiterate that I think it is not only important, but actually absolutely crucial in a democracy that major questions are put to the people when we have big shots. All parties must then show their cards in all important matters. This has been done by the Workers' Party through its decision at the national meeting, and we are going to choose that we should have the freedom of action to initiate an analysis of what the major enlargement of the EU will mean for Norway. I note that other parties believe that we should not have it, that nothing is happening, and that in the political environments we should just sit still and look at it. This is not a responsible policy. With regard to what kind of referendum we are going to have before we send an application, if necessary how this is going to happen, I think it is going to be the subject of a thorough debate and process between the political parties, so that there is agreement on the procedures. It's been before, and it should be the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e182	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e185	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: Norwegian international ferry company wears down. They have long asked for government signals to change the framework conditions. We see what has happened in Denmark, where conditions are much more favourable, and the same is now happening both in Sweden and Finland. Compared to these countries, the competitiveness of Norwegian ferries has deteriorated sharply. What does the Government intend to do on the occasion of the case? And where does the matter stand in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e194	It is true that both Color Line and Fjord Line have contacted the Ministry of Industry and Trade to ask for similar arrangements to those currently in place in Germany, Denmark and Ireland and that are also being introduced by Sweden and Finland. At the same time, it is a reality that our closest neighbouring country has far fewer own seafarers, and that they also do not have the same shipping tax system that Norway has introduced. That means that even when we discuss Fjord Line and Color Line in particular, we have to go through the consequences of any change in our arrangements. The net pay system for the Danes was also known when Norway introduced its shipping tax. But this will be a matter that will be discussed in the Government at first, so that we can give a satisfactory answer back to the two mentioned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e201	It's clearly what the consequences will be. Fjord Line has already announced the deflagration of two of his passenger ferries if there are no signals coming from the Government by 1 March. And the famous thing is that other social-democratic countries can put themselves on net pay schemes and thus be more competitive. We will be able to lose thousands of Norwegian jobs in this ferry business, and that will have significant consequences. The Government will now assess a system of net wages and salaries and harmonise this legislation in line with, among other things, what it has. in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e208	We want to go into all of the sides of this problem. It is a reality that Fjord Line has reported that they flagged Denmark on 1 March if they do not receive another notification. However, at the same time – and I would like to stress this – the net pay problem was well known as Norway embarked on a different shipping tax. And it's clear that if now, without seeing any other side of this, you're going to go in and have tax freedom for the seafarers plus that you're going to pay your pension plans, in addition to the shipping tax that's already in place, we're going to have to look at the consequences of this, because the next time, it's going to apply to our entire foreign fleet. So we have to spend some time going through this whole problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e216	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e219	I believe the Minister of Industry and I can be quite certain that a net pay system is not negligent, and that the way in which the other countries have done it is very regrettable. But the consequences still have to be taken seriously, and that is the time perspective for which I am concerned, when I have registered the Minister of Industry's various statements. The first time I saw the matter mentioned, I think I was in December, and then expect that one would have clarified it quite soon, and hopefully during the year. Then there was an announcement that during January one would at least have it clear. The answer to the representative Hedstrøm now is that pretty soon the government will clarify this. I think it's necessary for us to know what, after the Minister of Industry and the Government's view, is, pretty soon. Will that happen during the month? Will that happen during March? I believe the industry now has a right to know what the Minister of Industry is looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e228	We shall maintain the deadline, so that Fjord Line is informed before they have taken their final decision on a flag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e233	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e236	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me first say that I think it was very good what he said, that it is important to show cards in all important matters before a choice. So I hope the party president whispers his prime minister a few words in his ear – the prime minister refuses to show his tax cards consistently before the election. But that was far from what was my main concern. I have a very specific question about Norwegian foreign service. I think it is very important that Norway is visible out there through a well-developed foreign service, especially with regard to our main allies. For many years we have had important general consulates to keep in touch with Norwegian America, which I believe is a politically important factor. Unfortunately, we had many closures in the 1980s, and now obviously the trip has come to shut down the Consulate General of Minneapolis, and protests, many protests, even from Congress members in Washington. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything if he will now turn around in this matter and confirm that he will not terminate the consulate-general?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e249	I have noted that there are many protests and many views on it. This, of course, will be included in the final assessment of the matter by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I can't say anything more about it, but of course we take what comes into our table, very seriously. I fully agree with Jan Petersen that we should seek to maintain a strong foreign service, and this Consulate General is of course part of that overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e256	Thank you for that answer. It was a more appropriate answer than Bjørn Hernæs received in his written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where it was clear that an electoral consulate was under assessment. Now the Foreign Minister is more cautious, and that is something I welcome. I would like to mention that when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is at the same time setting up an embassy in Cuba, as the evening post announced on December 20th last year, you will send out completely despicable signals if you put it down in the United States and set it up in Cuba. That's why the Foreign Minister is now saying, a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e265	I can't help but say that I'm glad that Jan Petersen is pleased with my answer. The two things he mentioned are two different issues, which have to do with different situations. But as I said, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obviously takes all the input and views that come, seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e272	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e275	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. I would first commend the Minister of Industry for his commitment to ICT and ICT bet and for her position in relation to it. But there's two areas that bother me very much. The only thing is that the Labour Party and the Advance Party so long trained the possibility of getting competent workers from outside to Norway. And when one now has the green card scheme, which we support, this also takes time. There are reports that there is still no benefit for the companies that are trying to get employees in. The second is education. The IT Academy and a number of private providers representing 12,000 places of study in ICT are warned to get much worse after St. Announcement. No 20 if the intermediate level has been provided, including will greatly reduce the funding of studies. How can it be that one actually makes the situation worse in one of the important areas where we're going to have skilled labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e286	Following the announcement of research by former State Council Lilletun, the Church, Education and Research Committee also delivered an opinion on the need to open up more skilled labour and, in particular, the IT area. The Justice Committee did the same. There is a state secretarial committee that looks at all aspects of this – how to open up to several, either by a so-called green card, where one limits this to a particular profession, or slightly extended by looking at other highly skilled workers. This work should be completed in March, and then I assume that you will also discuss this properly. But I agree with Mr Lilletun that it is urgent. In the case of training, a part of the multimedia was also expanded in the field of vocational training, and there should also be a positive grant to cover it since in the case of higher education. But beyond that, what has happened at the higher levels, I have to bring to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e296	I thank you for the answer and would like to remind you that if former State Council Sponheim had agreed to its proposal on liberalisation in the case of labour immigration, we would not have had this problem of even having to have a settlement before you can get this going. I think it's good that the selection ends in March. This has to be done quickly, because companies are still making contact. They've seen the signals from the Minister of Industry, who's been positive, and it's just as difficult. Then it is quite right for the Minister of Industry to say that the second thing I did is under the Minister of Education, but the coordination of the ICT area is under the Minister of Industry. And when those who are providers for as much as 12,000 places, actually call out a warning in relation to St. reported. No 20, I ask the Minister of Industry to take it with him, and that one look at it again. It would be dramatic if those places were to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e305	I can just say that I fully agree with that, so I hope that this has to be something that could be done, because this is an area that is growing fast. With regard to increased labour migration, I expect that this matter will come to the Stortings table in some form, so that this can be implemented quickly. But here it's also about, for example, how long they will be here, whether they will be of whole families, and whether they will also have an arrangement for each enterprise to benefit those who come in. And it has to be that you can't get this workforce through the usual EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e312	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e315	It is true that within the new economy and ICT, the EU and the United States are now trying to vacuum non-Western countries for their expertise in order to increase value creation and competitiveness. And the United States is in the process of winning that competition, which the EU is very annoyed by. I know that the Council of State said to the media last fall that she has sympathy for this green card system in order to get more flexibility to import e.g.. IT engineers for Norway. Now we know that LO has a completely different view. They say that first we steal the third world's raw materials, now we also have to steal the knowledge and skills they have laboriously built up and have too little of it to increase their own standard of living. So this has lo disagreed with. Is the Council of State still standing on its own positions and disagrees with LO in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e324	In fact, I am dealing here with what both the Education Committee and the Stortinget and the Justice Committee and the Stortinget have said in the past. I also believe that the Progress Party was in favour of opening up some more labour immigration in relation to highly skilled labour. In the case of vacuuming e.g. India, which is the country that has been mentioned, I think it's right to also have the attitude that people, and especially maybe IT people, now turns out to be nomads, they're moving where the conditions are best. And I think it's a good lesson to bring with it to some and all of us that it's about legitimate people who can decide about themselves, whether they're from one country or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e331	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e334	I register with interest that there seems to be shades of opinion within the Government regarding the pages of St.meld. No 20. But that's what we're going to get back to in Storting's treatment. I asked for the floor because the Minister of Industry referred to Stortinget's position on the research report. All parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, agreed to take immediate action on both practice and legislation in respect of researchers who have been trained in Norway and are today forced to leave Norway as soon as they have completed their education. My question is, when it is quite obvious that there is an overwhelming majority for this in the Grand Council, does the Council of State consider that the pace that has been followed in organising this is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e343	It has been important for the Government also there to see all aspects of this matter. And I mentioned the specific areas, for example. the duration of the stay, three years or five years, etc. In Germany, the so-called Green Card practice has been used, as well as a more liberal one, for example. over a longer period of time. And these are some of the conditions that have not yet been clarified in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e348	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e351	Of course, it is correct that the Stortinget should deal with the so-called intermediate level in St.meld. No 20. But the Council of State is responsible for the IT area, so I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: Was the Council of State aware of the impact that the reorganisation of the intermediate level could have on the IT industry? And is she behind the great news presented by the Government in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e356	Yes, I am behind the proposal that the Government has made. And I assume that in the first place a reorganisation will not have negative consequences, if one who does not follow up what some of the Stortinget have thought, to create a separate level between high school and state college.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e362	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e365	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. In the international economy, there is now a growing problem with the non-regulated cross-border currency transactions. These have reached the unfathomable level of $1,300 billion each day, and these are mainly transactions that are not bound to trade or investment, but mainly serve small margins on exchange rates or whatever else. This has resulted in the launch in France of an organisation called Attac, which now also has its Swedish branch that a number of Swedish social democrats have spoken positively about, among other things. proposes a number of concrete measures to make some speed dumps, pour some sand into the machinery for this cash flow. For this flow of money, significant management problems arise, which in turn create instability in many countries. We saw it in England, when the English pound was squeezed out of the currency cooperation, we've seen it in Malaysia, in Mexico, in Brazil, and we even saw it in Norway in the mid-1990s. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: What measures does he think can be taken internationally to limit and prevent these currency transactions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e376	Let me first say that I see the establishment of Attac in countries by country as an incredibly positive measure. I personally have expressed myself for what was the origin of this organisation, namely a tax on currency transactions, long before Attac was established. Among other things, I have have been working for this internationally for many, many years. We will continue to do that, and we therefore see the establishment of Attac as an important supporter of the work that we are doing. I can only specifically answer the question that came, that the Workers' Party and the Government are in favour of such a tax being imposed on currency transactions, so that these great waves of speculation can be evened out and through it also receive money that can finance up the United Nations system and that can also contribute to the cohesion of the world for the benefit of the poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e383	This was a very positive answer. As this question was being addressed in the Stortinget in 1998, the Labour Party did not support it. I'm glad the Workers' Party is doing it now. But what's the big challenge is, in what body is the Workers' Party supposed to raise this issue? Will the Government of the Workers' Party come to the Stortinget with proposals to start at a national level, possibly at a Nordic level? Would you like to take it up through the Security Council, where Norway now has a place, so that you can get the international transaction fee initially proposed by James Tobin? One thing is that you're for it in an oral question time, something else is raising the question with a weighty international. My challenge to the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be how to actually move on. The international opinion that now rises against currency transactions is cross-political, it consists initially of social democrats and left-wing radicals, but also of many conservatives. So that means there's a movement to make a change. And then my question has to be, in which body will the Government of the Workers' Party raise this question, so that you can get an international impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e390	What was discussed here in 1998 was not the issue of international currency charges, it was the question of a charge on Norwegian currency transactions, and it is quite different. We're not in favour of national measures, because it'll only lead to problems in our own economy, and it doesn't help with the big problem of speculation that Djupedal talked about here. But we're all because we're going to have an international currency transaction tax. That is what we have been discussing for a long time before 1998. I've spoken for it in international forums. I raised the question, among other things. at the Congress of the Socialist International, which was just in the United Nations building many years ago. Then the Workers' Party was one of the few parties that made a case for it. We've worked for it in other forums, and the question is, how are we going to get momentum in it? Then I would like to make it clear that we have two partners. One is the EU, which has gone in for it; the other is Canada, which has gone in for it. We work with these and others in all the relevant international forums to get movement in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e395	There will be follow-up questions – Anne Enger Lahnstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e398	I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an offensive and positive attitude towards this old proposal for a so-called Tobin tax. But when the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this was up in the Storting in 1998 as a unilateral national measure, I think it is completely wrong. All those who have been involved in this have seen the importance of and have been concerned that there should be an international levy on currency transactions to finance the UN, among others. That possibility lies there. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister in particular on this with our membership of the Security Council and the possibility of working within the UN system with such a proposal, because it is vital that the popular movement, which is Attac's background, be combined, for example. in the United Nations system, initiatives are being taken to establish a system as important as a Tobin fee will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e405	The Security Council does not deal with such issues. The Security Council is in line with the mandate of the UN Charter, but some have suggested that the UN should either establish an Economic Security Council, for which there may be many reasons, or extend the mandate of the Security Council to include economic security issues. But our place in the Security Council also allows for enhanced dialogue with those countries that play a major role, including in this area. And in this respect, of course, our place in the Security Council is important. So we're actively working on this issue, but I have to say that there's not very much support from big players around the world. But we have support from the European Union, and we have support from Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e412	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e415	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Our country has a product-producing business that is highly export-oriented. In the years to come, we expect a strong increase, yes, some actually talk about time-blowing, in the production and export of fish and aquaculture products for the rest. If we're going to succeed in this, it's under some given assumptions. One of these assumptions is efficient transport. In my opinion, maritime transport is pointing out here as a natural area of activity. The problem is that today we have a very old coastal cargo fleet, with an average age of 40 years, a fleet that is struggling with recruitment, struggling with profitability and struggling with renewal. It's essentially pessimism that characterizes the industry. My question is: what can and will the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade do to renew the coastal cargo fleet and create new optimism in an industry threatened with deflagration or worst-case eradication?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e424	I fully agree with the description given by the representative of Kongshaug here of our short sea shipping fleet. As a consequence, I have established a separate group that is now going to review the framework conditions and the need for renewal, but also the competence side of the short sea shipping fleet. The first meeting of that group shall be Friday. Then we will go through and assess the fleet also in relation to the continental industries. It has also been discussed here in the past that one has seen this fleet in line with the foreign fleet as such, but this fleet has never come into such a tax position that they have been able to take out the so-called reliefs that came from that system. That's why we're going to go through the industry again, while it's also a reality that a lot of it will have to be refurbished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e432	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I am pleased that this work is well under way. A little back to the aquaculture industry and the expected growth there. Another prerequisite that needs to be met is, of course, just access to proteins for feed production. Better use of by-product in the fishing industry will be important, but it also leads to an increased need for chartering. So in my opinion, it has to be put on new boats, especially adapted to the different needs of the shipping industry, and I am concerned that we will get vessels that are well equipped for such chartering. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade agree that it is now important to create a framework for the freight fleet, which also means that SND's tools can be used, and also that research and development will be heavily invested in creating new vessels and new concepts that are modern and adapted to the challenges we face in the future in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e441	I said in my first answer that we also have to go through that problem and look at it in relation to our continental industries, because precisely this type of boat has not come into the tax position to take out anything positive of the scheme that the majority of the Storting implemented. And in that answer, it is also implicit to discuss SND's instrumentation, both in terms of the funding mechanism and the new turn that SND is getting towards a competence industry. SND is also a member of the group.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e449	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. There has recently been a debate about what should be sent on TV before and after noon. 21st Last@item: inlistbox The Minister for Culture has even said that there will be a ban on broadcasting certain television programmes before noon. 21st Last@item: inlistbox I agree that not all TV programs are suitable for children. But the big question is who should be able to regulate this, how and on what basis. What about the individual items in Dagsrevyen? And what about all the other TV channels except for the NRK? How is this to be solved in the great media world we live today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e458	The question of programmes suitable for minors was raised in this room not long ago. This is a television directive from the EU which recommends that television channels should not broadcast programmes which could seriously harm minors until 1 p.m. 21st Last@item: inlistbox It is up to individual editors in the individual channels to make these assessments, and this EU Directive will now be incorporated into the Norwegian television regulation. There are difficult balances that the representative of Bredvold comes up with, and I, as Minister of Culture, have not proposed any special programmes, but I have referred to the directive and said that it will be up to the State Media Administration and the Film Authority to assess complaints that may come from our television viewers on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e465	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is somewhat unclear. I understand the vision of the Council of State on this issue, and we certainly do not disagree on the main principles. But the question is how to solve this. The complaint in retrospect may not be enough, as the program has already been sent. So there must be clear rules in advance as to what can be sent or not sent. As I said, in the media world we live in, with many TV channels, this has to be a very difficult question. I also mentioned the Day Revy with all of them, let's call it the ugly entry that comes there, which can also be harmful. I imagine that the Council of State has a very big task in front of her if she thinks she should solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e474	This is a challenge. It's an explosive media situation we're living today, with quite a lot of extreme images flickering over our TV screens that we'd like to protect our minors from. Finally, as I said, the editors of the individual television channels are responsible for this and must use their discretion to assess what is to be sent before and after 7 p.m. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Then the authorities will follow up through the state media administration, which has professionals in the field and will make the assessments afterwards. But I trust that the editors are conscious of their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e479	There will be follow-up questions - Ola T. Loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e482	This question was raised in the questionnaire a week or two ago. Then the State Council answered Horn a question from me about precisely the Hotel Caesar and the so-called "suck TV" programs. The Council of State also referred to this EU Directive and confirmed that it should be implemented in Norwegian law. I think that when the Council of State Horn now answers questions from the representative of Bredvold, she says a lot different than she did in the questionnaire the last time. I have the record here, and it says, “But we now have, as I see it, a better chance when regulation, as I have mentioned, comes into place – an EEA directive that prohibits the sending of programmes that can seriously harm minor viewers before noon. 21 in the evening.’ Does this mean that the Council of State has changed its view of what she said in the previous Question Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e494	I haven't changed my mind about this. I believe that this legislation is now being introduced into Norwegian law and the Norwegian television regulation, making it even more clear to our television channels that they have rules that they are required to comply with and that force the utmost care by the individual editors responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e499	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e503	I have a question for the Minister of Industry, but almost in her capacity as Minister of Research. When Stortinget dealt with the research report last year, a unanimous committee stated the following: ‘The Committee also emphasises that a strong increase in private-funded business research is essential for the achievement of the Government’s research policy objectives.’ As the Minister of Industry probably remembers, not least the Labour Party was very impatient when it came to realizing this, and instructed the government to come back with concrete measures already in the revised national budget last year. Now there was a change of government immediately afterwards, so that the Workers' Party itself was given the government power. There were no concrete proposals in the revised national budget. It prompted Stortinget to repeat the order, and in the state budget for the current year there has been a concrete measure: an aid scheme which is in itself good, but which is also weakened by the introduction of VAT at the execution stage. Is it true that the Workers' Party has become much more patient than they were in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e517	No, we're not. The Research Fund – which is probably the representative of Wage - has also increased quite a bit in a very short time. Then there is the follow-up of the very concrete to make business increase its research effort, and it may well be that Inge Wohnung thinks that the 200 million. kr, which is now coming in the last six months of the current year, is too small. But that means there's something more on an annual basis. It is a very concrete follow-up to the position of the minority in the Hervik Committee, namely to have a more rules-based, but direct grant scheme instead of a tax latency scheme, which was in favour of the majority, and which the Right and the Advance Party have also put forward proposals on this in the Stortinget, but which did not receive a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e522	The research fund has nothing to do with this issue. We are talking about the business-funded part that needs to be in place if the agreed objective is to be achieved. I said that one step that has been taken, in particular, is a step in the right direction, but it is not going to give results that are close to the level of ambition that the Workers' Party and the Right, among others. was fully in agreement when we dealt with the research report. And my question is, does the government have greater ambitions than this, or are the ambitions now added to the side? If such ambitions are to be met, it must be noted that the Norwegian Research Council, which is to manage the scheme, has found itself in the current year: with the budget adopted, we are at best maintaining the status quo, and we are not going to approach the agreed objective of a research effort on average by the OECD countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e529	I can assure the representative Wage that we have high ambitions, and that was also a concrete increase in business research compared to the previous year. We're going to go on and on and on. SND in a far more competent direction – it will be with the emphasis on R & D – in which the Storting has also been involved. But it is quite right, as Inge Wohnning says, that business policy research will be central, and it will be a great responsibility for this government to also focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e534	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e537	A little bit of a correction to history, because what the Storting has voted on is the overprinting system. The whole idea of the Hervik selection was that one should try to reach a consensus and find other, more accurate schemes that could not have the basis for abuse. A large number, including LO, went for a system that would lift in a completely different way. I have challenged LO in relation to this, and they are still standing at the position they had. Even if I'm not happy about it, I'd understand that one couldn't raise it in the budget now, that's not what one had said before, but one couldn't. I think it is very sad if the Minister of Industry and the Government now go to the trenches and will not follow up on what the great majority, including LO's representative, says is necessary. I therefore ask the Minister of Industry and the Government to reconsider and come back more positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e544	I'm taking that as the representative of Lilletun here notes. I am also aware that both the Christian People's Party and other central parties have supported the proposal promoted by the Right and the Advance Party in relation to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e549	So that's the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e552	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last week, the Secretary of State wrote an article in the Newspaper summing up his meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell. There were various issues discussed, but I noticed, for my part, that the Foreign Minister in his article did not address the issue of sanctions against Iraq. As you know, Norway has taken on an important role as head of the Sanctions Committee. Now it is well known that Saddam Hussein has more than enough money to provide the civilian population with food, clothes, houses and all basic, vital resources. The penalties are in no way an obstacle to this. But still, the civilian population suffers. And then one is facing at least two challenges. One is how one can help the civilian population in Iraq, who is now suffering from a lack of fundamental human rights, and the other how one can tighten the grip, so that the measures affect the regime more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e561	What we discussed at the meeting in Washington – one of the points at least – was just how to strengthen sanctions now in relation to what was intended, namely to prevent Saddam Hussein from producing weapons of mass destruction, while at the same time facilitating the humanitarian situation in Iraq. Norway has promoted some concrete views and proposals in the light of the work we have been doing for a month now in the UN Sanctions Committee on Iraq, and it has aroused great interest in many capitals. We have good hope that one can manage to achieve a regime that will be able to achieve the two objectives that I mentioned here. But it is very important that we do it in such a way that Saddam Hussein cannot collect a victory, but on the contrary that we can hold the pressure on Saddam Hussein, so that he does not have the opportunity to produce weapons of mass destruction and must comply with the UN's demand to release weapons inspectors into Iraq to see to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e566	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which I see as positive. It is clear that there are very many organisations that are following developments in Iraq with concern because of the human rights situation. It's also doing UN institutions, like UNICEF. Facilitate sanctions to help Saddam Hussein is not applicable. We all know that he has the money to do what is necessary to help his own people. But at the same time one looks for a grip that is more targeted towards the regime, and that tightens the grip there, without affecting the population. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs already has concrete actions in mind and has presented them to his foreign colleagues. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs also today indicate to Stortinget what measures may be necessary and are appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e574	We are in a process with other countries in the Security Council on this, and so we have put on the table a lot of experience we have had as the leader of the Sanctions Committee, and also some views and ideas on how to change the practice. But I don't think it's wise to go into this right now, because it's very important that we have a process with the other, especially the permanent members of the Security Council, who we need to have with us. However, I would like to inform the Storting about it when we see the outcome of that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e579	There will be follow-up questions – Lisbet Ruggtvedt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e582	Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs rejected the fact that it is time to go in to lift some of the sanctions against Iraq and to be left with the most targeted sanctions. The government's position on Iraq's issue seems to be changing at regular intervals. If this description is not correct, the Government has a fundamental communication problem on this issue. It is very unfortunate, given the many people both in Norway and in other countries who are strongly committed to the situation in Iraq. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs work to clarify the Government's message with regard to Iraq? How will he deal with the communication problems that have obviously arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e587	I said yesterday in Stortinget, and I'd like to repeat this, that I think the representative Rugtvedt has a problem of understanding. It's not about raising special sanctions, it's about changing the practice of the sanctions you have. That is what we are discussing. There is no one in the Security Council who is in favour of raising penalties. All five permanent members agree that it was right to implement the sanctions, and that sanctions should be maintained, but there is now a discussion and a process on how to possibly change the practice of the regime that we actually have. If the representative Rugtvedt could help explain this, it might be a bit easier for many on this issue. I think the communication problem is bigger for those who are driving this debate on that basis, because you can easily run Saddam Hussein's errand, which is just pushing children and women in front of you to lift the sanctions that you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e592	Hilde Frafjord Johnson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e595	Let me just say first that for us it's not about raising the sanctions either, but it's about changing them – and in two ways: one is targeting measures against Saddam Hussein, the other is protecting the civilian population. It's the last point I'm interested in hearing the Foreign Minister's assessments after the conversation with Colin Powell. Is it so that Colin Powell and the Americans are now interested in participating in a dialogue on finding measures to protect the civilian population and prevent them from becoming victims? There is no doubt about who is responsible, it is Saddam Hussein, but nevertheless the civilian population is standing as a victim, and there are clear, large and strong violations of human rights dimensions. The second question relates to whether the Americans are interested in changing the sanctions in the direction of targeting Saddam Hussein – what is commonly called ‘smart’ sanctions’ in the United Nations – which affects the elite rather than the civilian population. Is the Foreign Minister's answer so to understand that the Americans too are now interested in a change in this direction on both of these points?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e600	I can just say that the meeting we had with Colin Powell was very encouraging from the Norwegian side. I am absolutely convinced that the United States has the same objective as us, namely to organize the practice of this so that Saddam Hussein can be prevented from producing weapons of mass destruction, but at the same time improve the humanitarian situation in that country. Colin Powell has also said publicly that he will, by saying that he will ‘reenergieze sanctions’, and it was defined for me as I now said. So we have a very positive dialogue, and in the light of the experience we've had in the Sanctions Committee, Norway has put on the table our experiences and views on how to change this, and this has been received very positively by the Americans and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e605	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e610	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question No 6, by the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Defence, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 8, from the representative of Mr Kendeth Svendsen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered before question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative May Britt Vihovde to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question No 20, by Mr Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 21, from the representative of Kari Økland to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e630	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: ‘The evening post has documented more than 30 serious incidents related to racism and discrimination in Norway. Public reports, cf. UDI, shows that racism is widespread. At the same time, Norway is criticised for the non-compliance with human rights by international monitoring bodies. Therefore, the Action Plan on Human Rights and the Action Plan on Racism must be followed up quickly and effectively. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the plans are translated into action and concrete results?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e639	I am afraid that there are far more serious incidents related to racism and discrimination than what we have seen in newspaper headlines lately. We need to take concrete examples seriously. But this is also about attitudes and behaviour across society, and it requires long-term work to succeed in promoting tolerance and mutual respect. The Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination 1998 and the 1999 Human Rights Action Plan contain many good actions in different areas. The government is now following up both plans. The anti-racism action plan expires this year. This is why the Government has started work on a new plan that will be presented in the first half of 2002. There we will pay particular attention to the work of the community and the efforts of voluntary organisations. The Government is also well-informed to implement the many measures contained in the Human Rights Action Plan. I would particularly like to highlight the efforts to strengthen research, information and education. This year we will set up a national human rights institution, and we will continue the important dialogue and cooperation with the voluntary organisations. Our work on human rights must be far wider than government action plans. Promoting human rights is an integral part of our foreign policy, where we now get a new and demanding arena through our seat in the UN Security Council. The same applies to the work against racism. This is all about attitudes. We want people to know freedom, security and belonging regardless of skin color, ethnic background, belief or sexual orientation. This challenges us in our daily lives in the community, and it challenges important social institutions. And here we have to go with Organisation Norway, the school, the individual workplace and the Church. Special attention is given to young people. The government will take the initiative to commit schoolchildren to developing driving rules for a multicultural Norway with tolerance. The starting point will be the rights we have under the UN Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and Norwegian law. We will make the students aware of the values laid down in these texts, but also show how human rights have repeatedly been broken. It's about slavery and holocaust, it's about violating individual, social and economic rights, and it's about everyday expressions of prejudice and racist attitudes. How can we shape a future where that's not going to happen? This is what we want to hear from schoolchildren. A wide-ranging jury will select a number of driving rules that capture the youth's own expression of how we can combat prejudice, discrimination and racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e660	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer – there will be broad agreement on everything he now said. It is good that a new action plan against racism should be drawn up when the old one runs out, but it is very important to follow the plans that have already been adopted and that the Prime Minister said the Government agrees. This is where, in our view, there is a lack of political support in order for this to happen. Human Rights Organisations report a lack of activity on the part of the Government. We're getting charges from international agencies. For this reason, representatives of the central parties have asked a number of questions about human rights and racism in this issue. As far as follow-up is concerned, the Government usually answers that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible. Of course, this applies to the international human rights measures, which are approximately. 150 in the human rights plan we presented, and it concerns reporting responsibilities to international bodies for national human rights issues. But, as far as I know, no State Council has a coordinating and driving responsibility for the national human rights measures. This now suffers from the follow-up. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Will the Prime Minister ensure that one Council of State is given responsibility for the coordination and driving role of national human rights measures, as well as that all Councils of State are responsible in their field?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e669	As Mr Bondevik says, there is broad agreement on the measures in the two action plans, and there is broad agreement on how we should follow up the work on human rights in Norway politically. There are then some different assessments of whether the Government is following up the different actions of the two action plans, against racism and for human rights. We mean we do. We believe that we can prove that we do that. And at the point after point in the action plans, the measures have been followed up, partly by the previous government, which started work, and partly by our own government. In addition, new measures and contributions to wide-ranging anti-racism mobilization, human rights and tolerance are announced. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, as Mr Bondevik himself has explained, has a responsibility in terms of coordinating international efforts. The various Councils of State have an obvious responsibility for safeguarding human rights and the fight against racism in their fields. We have seen that the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Minister of Church and Education and the Minister of Culture and others have taken an active part in this work, and of course they will continue to do so. As Prime Minister, I have the overall responsibility to coordinate the government's work also in the fight against racism and for human rights, and it is a task I take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e683	Of course, there is broad agreement on objectives and on most instruments for following up both the Action Plan on Human Rights and the Action Plan on Racism. But it's unfortunately not so that this is now followed up point by point. At that time, human rights organisations had not reported impatience, and we had not been charged either. With regard to the Action Plan against Racism, I would particularly like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the unsatisfactory situation on the labour market and on the housing market. With regard to the Human Rights Action Plan, I will again challenge the Stasminister to assess whether he does not need one Council of State that has a coordinating and driving responsibility, as it was in our government, with its own Minister of Human Rights who had this. In terms of international, nothing has happened about the human rights dialogues with Turkey and with China. Little has happened in terms of human rights and business. It alerted the pilot project in this area to be relatively silent. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure coordination and follow-up of national measures and better pressure on the international community?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e696	I disagree with the description of reality. I believe that the Government, e.g. in the wake of the tragic killing of Holmlia, on the broad front has mobilized for human rights, against racism and for tolerance. And the state councils have done that in their different areas. Sylvia Brustad has taken on board the issues of labour market, everyday racism and housing markets, the Minister of Culture has mobilised in relation to cultural life and our attitudes, the Minister of Church and Education has taken initiatives and made representations about how we can mobilise schools and students in the fight against racism and for human rights, we ourselves have announced how to draw schools closer, among others. by establishing driving rules, and the Minister of Justice has started an active work on how we can get even further into the fight against racism and the work on human rights. I simply disagree that it is such that the Government is not engaged in that work. The government is very committed to that work, and I myself am very engaged in the work of human rights, against racism, and I am also going to work on it today in several meetings and in different contexts. There is a need for coordination. It's happening from the Foreign Minister's side, and it's happening from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e707	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Council of Europe’s Declaration against Racism, which Norway has concluded on 16 October 2000, obliges countries to step up their efforts against racism in the fields of legal legislation, policy-making, education and information and communication. What measures will the Government take to follow up the declaration and why Norway did not sign the Protocol on Protection against Discrimination on an ethnic and other basis under European Convention on Human Rights. 12, 2 November 2000?’ I would like to point out that November 2 is wrong. It has to be November 4th.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e718	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the UN World Conference on Racism will be held in South Africa in the autumn of 2001. In response to this World Conference, regional preparatory conferences are held. For Europe, this was held under the auspices of the Council of Europe 15–16. October last year. As the last region, Asia will hold its preparatory conference in Tehran from 19 to 21. February of this year. Each regional conference will draw up a statement on the basis of which the final document is to be adopted at the World Conference in South Africa in September. The declaration by the European Conference to which Mr Dørum refers is primarily part of the preparations for this World Conference. However, it is at the same time part of the ongoing work against racism and discrimination in Norway. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is specifically responsible for following up the declaration, including the preparation of a new Norwegian action plan against racism and discrimination. The preparatory work for the World Conference on Racism is chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have set up a national preparatory committee and a wide-ranging work committee with participation from, among others. Anti-racist Centers and Centers against ethnic discrimination. We consider it right to move with the volunteer organisations in this work. Norway aims to play an active role in the World Conference and prepares the basis for this through, inter alia, the following: an active national human rights policy. However, when we have not taken a final decision on the question of signing Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, this is due to the need for a thorough review of the obligations that this will entail. The Protocol relates to discrimination on different grounds, not just racial discrimination, and may have implications in a number of areas of society in Norway. The government will make sure that we comply with the international obligations we assume, fully before the protocol is signed. In addition, South Africa has expressed a desire for close political contact with Norway during the preparation of the major International Conference on Racial Discrimination. South Africans place great emphasis on this conference, not least in the light of the recent history of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e737	I see the Foreign Minister's answer to the last question as not a question of whether you want to sign, but of when, because the background is that you want to be sure that what you're drawing for, that's what you stand for. That's a position I understand. Of course, I expect that a work will be accelerated so that you can sign it as soon as possible. I also noted that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a responsibility to prepare the major international conference. My question is, how do you actually want to stress that this is also going to be a policy here at home? I understand, of course, that the policy we are going to report out, both on behalf of ourselves and on behalf of others we want to influence, is well prepared. But what are we doing to systematically sweep at our own door as a follow-up to this document of 16 October 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e750	It is a good Norwegian tradition that what we vote for abroad, we do that in Norway. That's why I said that, and I'm glad that Dørum expressed an understanding, namely that we must first look through all our laws and regulations and the impact of Protocol No. 12 gets for this. When it comes to how we're going to follow up, it's the same principle. We follow up on everything we vote for, and I believe that we have a good work going on that is widely political anchored, which is anchored in non-governmental organisations. I want to say that I think it's important that you don't make artificial dividing lines here. The dividing lines go between those who are actually not willing to work against racism, or even nerds up under racism, and all the others who are on the opposite side. Trying to create artificial dividing lines on one side of this divider line, I don't think I'm making this work at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e757	I'm definitely not looking for artificial dividing lines. I'm looking for active and good actions. Let me then refer to the question asked by Mr Bondevik to the Prime Minister, where the Prime Minister mentioned a series of councillors. He could be on the long list taken with the Social Minister, who has the legal rules relating to donations. It is clear that part of everyday racism in Norway is about youth that is separated by dark and white skin at the door of the outdoors, among others. in this city, because today you have no legal basis to threaten to deprive the gift grant of those who practice this form of everyday racism. It is not long since the Minister of Social Affairs did not express any position on this position that was in line with what both Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs have said is the government's overall policy. I would like to encourage Foreign Minister Jagland, also as party leader in the Workers' Party, to contribute to the rapid and clear entry of the Workers' Party in the fight against this outdoor discrimination, for this is everyday racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e762	I fully agree with the latter, but I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs has a clear view on this. Among other things, she has asked for a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on this particular issue, so we should follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e770	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Human Rights Action Plan announced increased efforts and activity in the human rights dialogues with China, Turkey and Cuba and the possible launch of a similar dialogue with Indonesia and Vietnam. What new activities and initiatives has the Government launched during the established dialogues, what is their status, and what concrete plans are there for the human rights dialogues in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e779	The Bondevik government helped to get human rights high on the agenda — both at home and outside. This was a follow-up to the initiative taken under former workers' party governments. The work on human rights is deeply anchored in Norwegian foreign policy, and has been so for many years. The human rights action plan is just one of several important instruments in a broad-based effort. Dialogue on human rights can be an important instrument for the promotion of human rights in countries that traditionally place low emphasis on individual rights. This is why Norway has entered into such dialogues with a number of countries. And the first dialogue with China was already established under the Brundtland government. A long-term bet is a prerequisite for success. It is very gratifying that the Institute of Human Rights has now become a national institution. It is of great importance to build a Norwegian professional environment, which can make important contributions to the human rights dialogues. However, we must recognise that we have limited resources to establish such dialogues with any country we wish. Norway is one of the few countries that have a dialogue with China on human rights. It is our impression that this dialogue has contributed to a better understanding of the human rights of central Chinese decision-makers. In the future, the government will also focus on a high level of activity in the dialogue with China, with extensive visitation exchanges and professional cooperation. In March, a delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will travel to Beijing to prepare the upcoming round table in Oslo in May/June. The so-called Oslo coalition will also invite a Chinese delegation to Norway later this year. Indonesia faces major challenges in the field of human rights. We are pleased that the new government in Jakarta has agreed to cooperate with Norway on these important issues. Increased emphasis on human rights is absolutely necessary to consolidate democracy in Indonesia and to ensure fair social and economic development. The dialogue with Indonesia will be formally initiated during a visit by State Secretary Johansen to Indonesia in April. He will open a seminar with planned participation from among others. The Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman and Økokrim, as well as a number of Indonesian institutions. The main purpose of this seminar is to assess the possibilities for closer cooperation between Norwegian and Indonesian professional institutions, and not least to facilitate closer cooperation between Norwegian and Indonesian non-governmental organisations. For several years we have had a constructive dialogue with Turkey on human rights issues. Developments have gone in the right direction, although the challenges are still many. I travel to Ankara on Thursday for conversations with, among others. Minister of Foreign Affairs Cem and Prime Minister Ecevit. I would then like to take the opportunity to address the human rights situation in the country. I also want to meet representatives of the most central Turkish human rights organisations to hear how they assess the human rights situation in the country. Since 1998, prominent Norwegian human rights experts have been engaged in a broad dialogue with Cuban experts and authorities – including at political level. Unfortunately, Cuba suspended the dialogue with Norway in the spring of last year, among others. due to the Norwegian vote against Cuba in the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. However, there is now agreement to resume the dialogue. We are very positive about this, and will do our utmost to improve our understanding of the importance of respect for human rights in all parts of society. Vietnam has until recently opposed any discussion of human rights issues. Norway is the only country Vietnam has been willing to enter into a human rights dialogue. In our cooperation with Vietnam, we will initially support projects which have a clear human rights profile and which, in their form, can provide the basis for a more comprehensive human rights dialogue. The main objective of the Government’s international human rights work is to ensure that human rights are respected in all countries. Dialogues with selected countries are important instruments. However, they do not prevent us from taking on serious human rights violations – both in direct contacts and in international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e807	I noticed that the activities and measures now referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs are in the future. I must say that I am not in any way satisfied with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' response, because he was unprecise as to what new initiatives and activities the Government has taken and initiated during the established dialogues. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is undoubtedly right that human rights have a long line in Norwegian foreign policy through changing governments. But it is still certain that a special initiative was taken during the central government. One was given a momentum in the matter, and it was very important that the momentum was retained with new initiatives, that the dialogues were followed up. I have to say, on the basis of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now explained, that he has not taken advantage of that momentum. I'm glad if this is followed up in the future. But it is very important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs devotes the necessary resources and attention to this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e814	I'm a little surprised that Steensnæs here can say that the activities are in the future. I'm going to Turkey tomorrow. These include: human rights on the agenda. I explained that Secretary of State Johansen is about to travel to Indonesia to start a dialogue with Indonesia. I referred to the fact that we have reopened the dialogue with Cuba, after they broke it because of our vote in the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. If the point is to prove that we're doing less than the previous government, and if you go through what it did in these areas, you're not going to be able to figure out in any way that it was something more than what we're doing. Otherwise, it was the Brundtland government, which was a workers' party government, that launched the first human rights dialogue with China. I am glad that it was followed up by later governments. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, I just want to say that there is a tendency that many people have, to think that what you did yourself, is much better than what the descendants do, but I think that we do have so much power in this work in the way it is organized now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e821	I would like to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the concrete measures he mentioned are in the future. The government has been in power for about a year. I am not impressed by what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained in terms of the initiative and follow-up of the human rights dialogues and the Human Rights Action Plan. Amnesty International published on Monday a report on the human rights situation in China. Serious episodes of torture and abuse are reported. Oppositional shells are being shelled and forced into psychiatric hospitals. Such a report should have a broad place in the dialogue conducted between Norway and China. Will the Council of State take an initiative to focus on these issues in dialogue with Amnesty and then with China?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e828	I note that Steensnæs believes that 'tomorrow' is in the future. I have a trip to Turkey tomorrow, where human rights are on the agenda. State Secretary Johansen is going to Indonesia in a few days to start a dialogue with them. We've started a dialogue with Cuba. As far as China is concerned, we are doing exactly what the previous government did, and we would like to strengthen it on the basis of the report that has come. But otherwise, we don't need such a report to address these questions with the Chinese authorities. We know that there have been violations of human rights in China for very many years. We know what's going on in a later question, what's going on in relation to Falun Gong, which has been raised. So I believe that this attempt to drive that you're starting has no basis in reality. But it might have reason to believe that what you did yourself was completely different from what you're doing now. But there is a follow-up that there is a broad consensus about here in Stortinget, and also was when we discussed the matter in plenary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e836	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Recently, the situation has significantly deteriorated for Falun Gong followers in China. The Chinese authorities have stepped up their persecution with extensive mass arrests and imprisonment without law and judgment. 110 Falun Gong practitioners are believed to have lost their lives in prison and camp since July 1999, when the movement was banned. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to address such serious violations of religious freedom, and when will the Minister of Foreign Affairs address the situation of Falun Gong in particular with China?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e845	Freedom of religion and belief forms a central part of human rights. Therefore, China’s violation of these rights, including the persecution of its adherents of the Falun Gong movement, has been addressed with the Chinese authorities on a number of occasions. Despite the fact that the basic Chinese law guarantees freedom of religion, religious practice is still subject to strong restrictions. This affects Falun Gong, but also Muslims, Christians and not least the Tibetan minority in China. Freedom of religion and belief is a key theme of the Norwegian-Chinese human rights dialogue. This dialogue has helped focus on sensitive human rights issues. In recent years we have seen progress in several important areas. Unfortunately, this has not been the case with regard to freedom of worship and religion, where, on the contrary, we have recorded regrettable setbacks. The campaign against Falun Gong is one of the most extensive in China since the massacre in the place of Heavenly Peace in 1989. Only a few days after the Falun Gong movement was banned in 1999, Norway protested to the Chinese authorities. I can shoot in here that I was in China on a visit as head of the Workers' Party's big group and leader of the party. When the first attacks against Falun Gong came – which was before 1999 – I immediately took it up. I was right at that time in China, and I took it up with Chinese leaders. So I picked it up before the formal Norwegian protest came, and we followed it up later. We have also raised the persecution and imprisonment of Falun Gong members on a number of later occasions, both through our human rights dialogue and in other ways. We will continue to do so until China complies with the human rights obligations it has assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e856	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, although I am absolutely not satisfied when the question is, When will the Foreign Minister address the situation of Falun Gong with China? The extent of the abuses that are now taking place, which are much larger and more extensive than the abuses that occurred when Falun Gong was last taken up, would suggest a much faster and stronger response to China. I also believe that the report that Amnesty has now presented once again shows that the human rights situation in China is not improving in general, as the Foreign Minister said, but that, on the contrary – many claim – it is under deterioration. Should this not be the basis for Norway's now protesting against China, and for the Foreign Minister himself to take responsibility for doing so on the first occasion? And when is this occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e863	As I explained, I raised this issue with the Chinese authorities before the protest came from the government of which Frafjord Johnson was a member – then as parliamentary leader and head of the Workers' Party. And we've taken it up later, we've taken it up in conversations between Norwegian and Chinese authorities. I'm going on a trip to China myself – the date is not yet set, but it will be during the winter/spring – and that's of course the reason I have to address this issue in full width. But I can assure you that we're always dealing with this in the dialogue that we have. And once again, that's exactly what the previous government did. I'm glad there's continuity in this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e870	I think Norwegian human rights organisations want a slightly different assessment than the Minister of Foreign Affairs of what he says about the difference between the then and today's government, but I can leave it. Before the session of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, China will once again be in focus, and there is usually contact with other countries and, among other things, China. The EU and the United States on how to deal with, inter alia: China. The question of a resolution in relation to the human rights situation in China will once again be on the agenda. How will Norway present the criticism that the foreign minister has now also expressed regarding Falun Gong and torture? How will Norway promote this criticism in the forthcoming session of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva? And how will Norway address a possible resolution in relation to China with criticism of the human rights situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e877	First, I would like to say that our dialogue with China does not prevent us from addressing both this issue in our speeches there and our vote in relation to resolutions. We will consider this issue when we arrive at the time when contributions are to be made and voting is to be given, and it is important to look at the long line in Norwegian policy in this area. Of course, we'll look at what we've done on previous years' occasions, and I want to stress again: it's not like these questions have changed dramatically in recent times. There have been systematic violations of human rights in China all the time, and the Norwegian authorities have addressed this systematically. The governments did that before Bondevik, the Bondevik government, and we do exactly what the Bondevik government did, from this government. Trying to create a different impression is, in my opinion, trying to make policies on a wrong basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e885	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘According to the Human Rights Action Plan, a pilot project for the monitoring, reporting and verification of business compliance with human rights shall be established internationally. The scheme shall be based on voluntary activity. When will the pilot project be established and how will it be organised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e894	As mentioned in the answers to previous questions, the Government will actively follow up the action plan on human rights. This applies not least to the respect of human rights by Norwegian industry in its international activities. In particular, in countries which do not have such extensive legislation to protect workers, it is the responsibility of companies to contribute to the respect of fundamental human rights. The government has the clear expectation of Norwegian business that they operate according to the same ethical principles as at home. It is my clear impression that the vast majority of Norwegian companies are conscious of their responsibilities and place great emphasis on human rights in their work. Many companies today have ethical guidelines, but it is not clear to what extent they are fully complied with. This is the background to the establishment of cooperation between businesses, trade unions, human rights organisations, research communities and Norwegian authorities on the broad societal responsibility of industry. The Human Rights Action Plan proposes a pilot project to stimulate the development of mechanisms for voluntary based reporting, monitoring and control of the compliance of enterprises with adopted ethical guidelines. The project has been proposed to the Institute for Human Rights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in constant contact with the Institute in this respect. However, it has always been a prerequisite for the participation of other research communities. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has agreed to finance the project. ECON Centres for Economic Analysis have cooperated with the Institute with a view to submitting a joint project application. It has recently been found that the two institutions have a different approach to the project, and they therefore agreed to submit each of their applications to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I see it, the two projects will complement each other, and the institutions will maintain close contact. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore decided to provide both ECON and the Institute for Human Rights with support for these projects. I therefore expect them to start the work quite immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e909	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that many parts of the Norwegian business community are conscious of their responsibility for this with ethics, in particular with regard to human rights. The business community and the organisations you have in the business world are positive about putting it at the forefront. About half of NHO’s member companies are now developing ethical guidelines for their businesses, and a survey actually shows that 3⁄4 of business managers believe that ethics and shops really belong together. I am pleased that the government has started this work, but when I specifically asked when this could be realized, and when this would be started, I guess I did not really get a concrete answer to that. So my final question is whether the Foreign Minister can be more specific about the ambitions for when this can be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e916	I am a little surprised that, under several questions here, you have not heard what I am saying. In the answer to the Steensnæs question, ‘in the morning’ was redefined to be far into the future. Now you have not heard what I said about when this was to be implemented. I said "immediately," that was the last word I had. I therefore expect them to start the work quite immediately. And immediately for me, it's immediate. So we have put in place what the Stortinget has said, and then I believe that the work is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e921	I record that the Foreign Minister believes that what I have asked for will be implemented immediately, and then the follow-up will show what is in the term ‘immediately’ in the Foreign Minister’s vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e926	I can see that Thursday, which is tomorrow, is not far into the future – as Steensnæs tried to give the impression. Immediately, it's immediately for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e941	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e947	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Swedish maritime authorities informed last week that each seventh tanker operating in ports in the Baltic Sea is a sub-standard vessel and that there is only a matter of time before serious accidents and pollution disasters occur. This applies mainly to vessels operating ports in former Eastern Europe, where the work of ship control appears to be random. It may be close to linking this to the future transport of nuclear waste along our coast. Does this concern the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e956	It is a regrettable fact that some ships in the world fleet are of poor standard, including with us, and that these represent a risk of serious accidents and pollution disasters. It is also a fact that countries in Central and Eastern Europe have relatively many ships of poor standards and that these countries do not have port state control that is as good as in Western Europe. I therefore share the concern of the representative, Mr Kleppe, about the situation, and this we must face by keeping good control in our own ports and by working internationally to ensure that ship requirements are followed up. A future transport of nuclear waste along our coast is, for the time being, a hypothetical problem, but the government is following this situation carefully and is looking at how to strengthen preparedness in order to better meet the possible transport of nuclear waste along the coast. In principle, as we see it, each country should treat and take care of its nuclear waste, so that we avoid international transport of such cargo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e967	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are aware that the Government is working on proposals to increase coastal preparedness, and that is what is needed. The party of progress does not think it is a hypothetical question of nuclear waste, for that discussion is going on in other countries, and it will come. But I'm very concerned about the coordination of the work that's going on, and given what the Storting has said and done before, we need to have a better follow-up than what we have today. Then my question to the Council of State if she thinks it makes sense to apply for the necessary appropriations already in the current year's budget rather than waiting for the consideration of the next year's budget in terms of the economy to coordinate this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e974	Part of this work, especially with regard to the follow-up along our own coast in relation to the accidents we've had lately, the government is in the process. We will present that work in the revised national budget, and that is the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e979	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I think it is good that the Council of State is offensive in this area. We know that there are a lot of people involved, both departments and organizations, in this important work. But I have an additional question, which is about to get this information that the defense radars have, into this work. I am aware of the work being done, and that we have traffic centres along the coast and also have operators on Norwegian pedestals who have important information. What is the status of this coordination work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e984	As a result of the recent accidents, how much has been associated with pollution and oil spills, the Minister for the Environment, on behalf of the Government, has a coordinating responsibility, and what we can get from the defence authorities will also be included. That is the report we intend to present in the revised national budget. In addition, there is a specific follow-up report on the ‘Sleipner’ accident. But it comes as a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e989	Question 8 will be answered in front of question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e995	I will be asked the following questions: ‘According to the Norwegian Tax Act, lottery winnings of more than NOK 10000 are tax-free only if they are won in Norway. According to today’s industry on 2 February 2001, the EFTA Surveillance Authority considers that this practice is contrary to EEA rules. What will the Council of State do with this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1004	Paragraphs 5 to 50 of the Tax Act initially imposes a tax obligation on random gains, including gains on competition, games, lotteries or the like, when the value exceeds NOK 10000. However, there are tax exemptions for a number of gains, whatever their value. These derogations include, inter alia: winnings from Norsk Tipping AS, toaliser games covered by the law on bets by toaliser, and distribution under the direction of social or humanitarian organisations subject to the Lotteries etc. ESA has concluded in a formal letter of opening of 18 December 2000 that these tax exemptions are contrary to the EEA Agreement. Persons residing in Norway who receive a gain from a similar lottery in another EEA country must pay a tax on the gain. The ESA’s view is that this constitutes discrimination against lottery companies in other EEA countries. The different tax treatment that lottery winnings receive, depending on whether they come from a Norwegian or foreign gambling company, may, in the ESA's view, prevent lottery players from participating in lotteries organised by companies not established in Norway. ESA has granted Norway a deadline of 18 March 2001 to comment on the case. The Ministry of Finance will stress the social benefits of gambling and lotteries today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1015	I thank you for the answer, but it was very little concrete about what the Council of State has in mind about this. I think it is a new and ridiculous example that ESA believes that the EEA Agreement is comprehensive, that all our tax and tax decisions should follow the EU. I think it will have great consequences for Norway if we bend off in such a case like this. One can only imagine the possibilities — that ESA will then control the size and shape of the pies in the school music lottery. I think we have a good order with Norwegian Tipping, which is going to go to culture, research and sport. The money they receive in this way is not inflationary, as they would if they were to get them from the state – then we got that discussion. I think the Council of State should try to figure out how much less it will be for culture, sport and research if it is such that ESA gets its way in this matter – we have to give that money extra over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1024	If the representative had registered what I said in conclusion, Norway, for its part, would stress the social purposes that the gambling and lotteries currently finance, and have therefore disputed the starting point that ESA has. That's the starting point for our answer. I do not understand that there is any disagreement between the representative and me in the way of dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1029	I think it has to be concrete in a matter like this, so that one makes his estimate of how much turnover Norsk Tipping loses, and who gets less. It would be another discussion if it wasn't so that what's going on is actually secret. It says in the media that Norsk Tipping's management did not know about this, and then, of course, cultural organisations and sports teams do not know about it. This discussion with the ESA has been ongoing since December 1999. I think it is worrying that we should not be able to have a public discussion in Norway about what we might get from future tax rules. Because ESA has too little to do, such investigations as this – which I just think is pointless, when we have arrangements that are okay. I think it's illogical, for example. in relation to what we have heard before today. There are many types of tax rules that are far more distortive than this. We talked about seafarers' working conditions, tax conditions and other framework conditions in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1034	I understand that the representative is expressing his disagreement with ESA's assessment, and that is the same position that I have. So I don't understand that there's any disagreement with Norway that will contest ESA's starting point on the answer to be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1042	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘On 5 February 2001, the address paper may notify that a Romanian researcher intended to play a key role in the construction of a new laboratory at NTNU is required to be expelled by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. The reason is that he has received support from the State Loan Fund for Education. His home country, Romania, cannot avail itself of his competence; it can, on the other hand, competing research foundations in other countries. Does the Council of State consider this to be the correct way to interpret the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1051	Based on what I know, UDI has handled this matter in line with the applicable rules. It is right under today’s legislation that students who have not financed their studies in Norway cannot receive a work permit as a specialist in Norway until after five years of residence in their home country. This is justified, inter alia, by: with regard to aid policy. As I have informed you on several occasions, among other things. last week's Question Time, the Ministry is working on various proposals for regulatory simplification, with a view to making it more flexible also in relation to the issue of students. I am aware that many of the foreign students who have received their education funded by the Norwegian authorities do not go back to their home country, but instead take a job in another Western country. Often, these students have an absolute competence that we need in Norway. I would therefore like to consider separately whether the quarantine provision for foreign students should be abolished. On this basis, I have given instructions to the police that persons subject to quarantine rules should not be transported until such an assessment has been carried out. Finally, I would like to remind you of the working group I have set up under the direction of State Secretary Øystein Mæland in the Ministry of Justice. This group is particularly familiar with the legislation relating to the recruitment of labour from abroad. It is within the remit of the group to consider the abolition of the quarantine scheme for students. As mentioned above, it is expected that the working group will make its proposals during the month of March.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1064	I thank you for your answer. I found all the positive features in this, by the Council of State seeing that there is a need here to make some changes. Much of the debate is now about the need to soften the provisions on labour immigration, and especially for people whom we definitely need in Norway. It has also been expressed by the Council of State on a general basis. Here, we are facing a Romanian educated in Norway, with a very special point competence that will add something to Norway, and for which we have difficulty in being fed by others — that is good evidence. State councils should now put into action fine words about an embellishment in this area. But I disagree that there is no discretion in the rules. The quarantine, as it's called, I think is the wrong use of words. This five-year practice is a general rule, but there is full opportunity for the Council of State to exercise discretion. From my point of view of this matter, on which I have received a lot of evidence, this discretion should be used, otherwise it is not credible all the talk of softening labour immigration for groups for which we definitely need the labour force in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1073	In the light of the decisions taken by the Stortinget Marine, as of 1 January of this year, the Council of State does not have the opportunity to enter into individual cases, nor, of course, to use any discretion in individual cases. This also applies in relation to the specific matter that is being addressed here. Thus, after 1 January, the Council of State has no authority to give instructions in individual cases, either to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs or to the Department of Foreign Affairs. But – as I said in my main response – on a general basis, I am very concerned about this issue too. I see that in many areas we need more competence, and we need more people. That is also the reason why I – as I explained before – have given instructions to the police that no students subject to the quarantine rules should be transported until an assessment of the quarantine has been made. We are now in the final phase of that work, and we expect to be able to come back with something about it during March. So until then, no one who is covered by this is to be sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1080	I thank you again for the additional response, which I perceive reinforces the main response. Of course, it is true that the Council of State cannot intervene in individual cases, but I have experience that the underlying bodies are quite responsive to changes in policy in areas, so that it will be implemented. From what the Council of State here says, I think that this specific matter should find its solution, if it is to lead to some changes in the policy that the Council of State is now expressing. So I thank you again for the answer. I think we can expect that in the case of an unusually skilled Romanian scientist, who has a very special material knowledge that Norwegian companies clearly express by letter that they need, as the research community in Trondheim says they need, and who wants to use their workforce and skills to supply Norway something that the home country cannot use because it is in the case of advanced technology, it is good for him to be able to use all this expertise in Norway. I would like to thank the Council of State for its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1089	I do not wish, as I have said, to comment on this particular matter, but on the basis of the information I have, UDI has followed the legislation in this specific case. But as I also say, I mean on a general basis, there's a reason to go through it. And I will – as I said – come back with my assessments of it and my suggestions in a very short time. Until such time as this assessment has been carried out, no person subject to quarantine shall be released.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1099	I have the following questions for the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In Norwegian reception and municipalities there are approx. 200-300 asylum seekers who are expected not to be able to return, most of them Ethiopians and Eritreans. After trying several times, you have not been able to get an agreement to return with your home country. Many of us have been here for many years and have an unexplained status with regard to others. social and other dishes in the Norwegian community. This is starting to get human rights dimensions. Is it not time to cut through for this group and let them stay in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1108	When a person is refused permission to stay in Norway, for example: upon rejection of an application for asylum, he/she is obliged to leave the country on a voluntary basis. The police shall, if necessary, enforce the law on aliens. In some cases we know that foreigners stay in the country despite being denied permission to stay here. The reasons for this can be divided into two main cases: 1st@item: inlistbox The authorities of the home Member State will not accept their own citizens who do not wish to travel on a voluntary basis. 2nd@item: inlistbox The identity of the non-resident is unclear. This may include both the identity and/or nationality of the person concerned. Most people can travel back to their homeland. These are, in other words, seagoing with the key to solving their own situation. Our starting point is that all countries should assume an obligation under international law to accept their own citizens, sail if they do not want to return to their homeland. Norway, like many other Western countries, has return problems with some countries, including Ethiopia. This issue is discussed in several international forums in which Norway participates. The aim is to agree an understanding with Ethiopia on the return of Ethiopian citizens. I would like to mention that people with final negative decisions can continue to live on government reception and receive the same financial support as asylum seekers when it is not possible to send them back to their home country. In order for a non-resident with a final negative decision under the Foreign Affairs Act to be granted a temporary work permit, it is a prerequisite that the foreigner is not responsible for the non-resident’s failure to implement the refusal. We will continue to work to implement returns to those countries where this is a problem today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1128	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I want to make some comments as well. It's probably only 10-15 of these 200-300s that I'm talking about, as this identity issue applies. Most of the others have a perfectly clear identity, where return to their home country is not possible. I'm glad that dialogue has been established with Ethiopia in this context, but Eritrea is also a challenge for us. I may feel that the answer from the Council of State broke up those who are more generally rejected here in the country, but here it is about a group that we can call ‘untourable’. It is not satisfactory that when they are refused, they should only continue to bow in a reception. What can the Council of State do to clarify its situation for those who cannot return, who have no country to return to? These persons are ‘returnable’. They're way off stateless as they are, and it's unworthy that they should be in Norway year after year without clarification How can the Council of State follow up exactly this small group that we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1141	I cannot take advantage of the figures here referred to by the representative Svarstad Haugland, in terms of how many people have the identity in order or how many don't have it. But I'm familiar with it at least so that for some of the people we're talking about here, it would have been an absolute advantage, to say it mildly, if they themselves had contributed to clarifying their own identity and ensuring that they had travel documents and passports. It would have helped to resolve the matter for some of them. As I said, on the Norwegian side, we have close cooperation – and dialogue – with the countries that this is being discussed, in order to try to resolve this situation as well. And I think we have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1148	I may not feel that the Council of State is able to define these people as ‘unturnable’, I actually feel that a draw is in doubt whether they are ‘unturnable’. There may be a lot of reasons why people don't have their papers in order, don't have the papers we require when they come here to the country. I know that there are usually quite large tragedys that lie behind this. The number material we have comes from the NOAS and the Refugee Council. The problem is that now they've been here for so long, and we still don't have a country to send them back to. How long are they going to live like that in uncertainty? Living in a reception year after year is also not very satisfying. I feel that we as a civilised nation should see our responsibility and give these people an offer in Norway because they don't have other countries to return to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1155	I cannot comment on the individual issues, and of course I do not know the background for each of them we are talking about here. But after what I have been informed, it is in the case of a good part of them, among other things. talk about a lack of definition of identity, a lack of contribution to clarifying it, nor have they always been concerned with obtaining the necessary travel documents. If they contribute to getting these two conditions in order, the matter for some of the people we're talking about here will be solved one way or the other. So my appeal to those who are covered by exactly this will be that they contribute to solving their own situation by obtaining travel documents and clarifying their own identity. And then, as I said, we will continue the dialogue and cooperation with the countries concerned to try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1165	‘In the consultation note on state hospitalisation, Chapter 4.4 states: ‘It would be natural for the larger current specialist health institutions to continue as subsidiaries at least.’ What is the opinion of the Council of State in its draft consultation with ‘major current institutions’, is it a regional hospital, or does it also include a central hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1172	I can confirm that the term ‘majorising current institutions’ also includes central hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1177	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It was informative, but very brief. I try with a brief comment and a follow-up question. In principle, the Progress Party considers that all central hospitals and a significant part of the major local hospitals should become subsidiaries and act as independent legal holdings. In particular, we believe in the Progress Party that it is most relevant to maintain local hospitals as subsidiaries in some parts of the country in the west and in the north. I would like to ask a follow-up question: will the Ministry focus on districts, geography and accessibility in determining how many subsidiaries to set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1186	I'm just making a reservation that this is a consultation note, with a deadline of 5 March. This consultation note shall form the basis for the proposition we will present to the Storting, on which, of course, these questions will be clarified. Without that reservation, I can, to a great extent, join the comments made here by the representative Alvheim, and I would like to make it quite clear that we will focus on the regional, population and other considerations that are conducive to the maintenance of the local hospitals that we currently have around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1193	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I understand that there is a draft consultation, and that the government is going to process this. But we also need to get some signals in my party, because we're also going to meet this proposition. If one selects a small number of subsidiaries, does that mean that some central hospitals are also converted into local hospitals and that central hospital functions are centralised into fewer central hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1200	I don't think it's a current issue. I also stress that the regional enterprises that are now being set up should have a significant degree of autonomy in organising the underlying units that this is about. But in practice, I see what I understand that the representative Alvheim is also concerned about, that most of the well-functioning central hospital and local hospital will also be able to be established as independent subsidiaries of regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1208	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Today, the communities have to pay doctors’ fees for medically assisted rehabilitation and the analysis of urine samples to drug addicts. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the social security system pays these costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1217	Drug-assisted rehabilitation has become an important part of drug treatment provision in a few years. It is now necessary to review and evaluate further the organisation and financing of this offer. Today, the municipalities are responsible for the follow-up of clients, including for the medical part of rehabilitation. This includes medical examinations, medical treatment and prescription of the medicinal products. The local health service is responsible for ensuring the necessary participation of doctors in this work. I have recorded that there has been a lack of clarity as to whether or not the public interest will pay for this. Since the question from the representative of Skogholt may also indicate that such confusion has arisen, I would like to take the opportunity to stress that the social security must pay for the diagnosis and treatment of clients during medically assisted treatment. This also applies to the medical examinations necessary, inter alia, for: be able to prescribe the correct medicinal product at the correct dosage. To the extent that this has been unclear, I will contribute to further clarification. In the follow-up of clients, municipalities also need to organise a routine delivery and submission of urine samples to the laboratory for control of drug-freedom. In this context, there has been a question of the payment for the analysis of the urine samples by the laboratories. This depends today on whether the primary purpose of the tests is control or whether it is of a medical nature. In practice, however, it may be difficult to draw a clear distinction between these objectives. This has led to this confusion as to who is to cover these costs. We are now assessing whether there is reason to change the guidelines in order to clarify the objective. Such tests are usually a necessary part of the medical part of the medically assisted rehabilitation, for example: for the dosage of the medicinal product. I will take the initiative to finalise who will finance this, and return to the budgetary implications of it. In this respect, I would like to point out that during the budgetary procedure the Storting asked for a detailed explanation of certain other economic consequences of medically assisted rehabilitation in the revised national budget, and I find it natural to come back with a statement there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1230	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. In many places in the country, there is a problem in obtaining doctors who are willing to take responsibility for assisting in the treatment of clients during medically assisted treatment, including in the treatment of drug users. due to unclear rules as to who is to pay the fees of doctors. The same unclear responsibilities apply to the payment for the analysis of urine samples by laboratories. Local authorities are responsible for providing drug-free accommodation and work and education services to users receiving medically assisted treatment. Fuzzy rules must not make this important work unnecessarily difficult. I urge the Council of State to give a clear signal as soon as possible that these expenditures are to be borne by the fear of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1239	I understood the call and took note of it. I will, as I said, make sure that there is clarity in the areas where there has been confusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1244	Then we go to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1251	This question, from the representative of Kari Økland to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1254	I have the following questions, which I understand that the Minister for Health and not the Minister for Agriculture is entitled to answer: ‘From 1 April 2001, Norway will introduce requirements for the origination of beef in accordance with the same Regulation as in EU countries. The rules shall apply to Norwegian beef and veal in the retail trade. Is it not desirable to find practical arrangements which also include meat served in restaurants and cafes, for example: by showing on the menu, and what may prevent us from leaving the scheme in question in this sector?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1263	The Norwegian regulation on the labelling of fresh beef from 1 April of this year introduces the provisions already in force in the EU. These provisions apply only to fresh beef. The definition includes fresh, chilled and frozen beef, including minced meat, but excluding meat preparations or meat products. Examples of meat falling outside are salted, dried, heat-treated or preserved meat. Meat served in restaurants and cafes will fall outside the definition because it is prepared or heat-treated. In addition, the presentation in restaurants and cafés is difficult to reconcile with the regulation’s label, which presupposes, at the moment of sale, that the consumer is provided with written and visible information in close proximity to the meat. In Norway, if we wish to demand the labelling of beef served in restaurants and cafes, national rules will apply in this case. I guess there won't be any obstacles to such rules from the EEA Agreement. However, such a system requires a specific assessment in relation to the control and surveillance systems. It is important that there is a link in the labelling requirements for the different marketing stages, so that the information is returned to the live animal or animals to which the information refers. We will have such traceability for the meat that falls under the provisions on the labelling of origin. In this way, restaurants will also be given information about the origin of beef they buy, and guests may ask for this information. If the restaurants themselves choose to introduce a system of labelling, advertising or presentation of such meat, it follows from current general legislation that it must be possible to verify that the information is also correct. National food surveillance is concerned with amending the general labelling provisions with a view to introducing a labelling obligation for certain unpacked foods. These rules could include food served at a restaurant. Requirements for the labelling of origin of meat served at a restaurant will be considered in this context. However, the introduction of mandatory labelling requirements for unpacked foodstuffs would raise some new issues which would make it desirable to have a slightly wider assessment of where they should be applied before they could be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1274	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was positive with regard to the possibilities of having a national scheme. Statistics show that the amount of meat products seized at the border is increasing. The customs authorities have also revealed a not insignificant amount of meat smuggling, and we cannot quite exclude the illegal use of imported meat in some Norwegian restaurants. Will not the requirement to originate beef in the catering industry be an advantage to all those who are serious, provide increased security to their customers and, at the same time, impede the movement of smuggler meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1283	I think, first of all, that measures to prevent the smuggling of meat, and otherwise, smuggling, should preferably be handled together with the other measures taken to prevent smuggling. But when that is said, I think that any requirement for the labelling of meat and meat products, if any, would also strengthen the possibilities of control with that, and so on, being an instrument in the fight to limit or prevent smuggling, I think. But the answers I gave here to the question of the possibility of introducing such a label of origin for restaurants are marked by the other more practical issues that will relate to such an introduction and that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1290	I thank you again for the answer. I would also like to ask the Minister for Health this follow-up question: can the Council say something about the risk of not serving «legal» meat, and what reactions do they have to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1297	I'm moving first into an area that's not directly my responsibility, and in any case it might be something speculative. Therefore, I dare not point out anything but that sampling is carried out, and I record that from time to time some people are also taken for the illegal importation of meat in such a context. So the risk is most present. In the case of reaction forms, they are in line with the normal forms of reaction we have for smuggling, and thus adapted the seriousness of the individual issues involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1304	Then we go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1310	I have a question for the Social Minister: «Norway today» programme at NRK1 10 January 2001 told of a municipality that would take from the developmentally handicapped an hourly salary of NOK 5 for work they do as part of training. Simple work tasks are collected externally. To maintain the motivation, the municipality suggested that a corresponding amount could be taken from the individual's social security account and paid for the work with this money. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable way to reward the work of mentally retarded people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1319	I have come to know that the case concerns a municipal daily service for people with such extensive disabilities that they cannot participate in work cooperation or other labour market measures. The activity centre in this particular case has concluded agreements with companies on simple work tasks. ==References== two thirds of the users at the centre take part in these production tasks. Those who carry out the production tasks received in 2000 an incentive payment of NOK 5 per person. Two to four hours per hour. day(s) According to the decision of the local council, the day-care centre must have a focus on activities and not on production. The content of the day and the organisation of the centre are mainly characterised by activity and care. Incentive pay is considered a educational tool to increase well-being for some users. The remuneration for encouragement is one of several incentives at the centre. Attention is paid to measures to promote well-being such as small excursions, service gatherings, use of pool and bubble baths, etc. For 2001, no remuneration for encouragement was provided in the budget of the Centre. Warnings of termination of this scheme led to strong reactions in the media and among relatives. The Presidency adopted on 18 January of this year. to make funds available for the purpose, however. For 2002, the municipality has required the activity centre to fit an incentive payment line within the Centre’s budget framework. The question of taking money from the disability benefits of the persons concerned is therefore no longer relevant in this case. In the programme of 10 January, however, the rapporteur in the municipality concerned pointed out that several municipalities allegedly practiced a scheme to pay incentives which had first been deducted from their social security. On the question of whether I think this is a reasonable way to reward the work of people with a developmental disability, I will answer no. I find it unethical to "stupid" someone in such a way. Nor does the Law on Social Security provide an opportunity for employers who provide disabled workers with training to take up their disability pension in order to later pay the same amounts as those paid to the pensioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1337	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is so clear and clear in his attitude to these questions that she takes responsibility. It was the rapporteur in a Workers' Party-led municipality in Skedsmo who proposed this, and fortunately it was stopped, as the Minister for Social Affairs was also concerned. I react quite strongly to such a human vision. As the Social Minister himself said, she too thought it was unethical. It's a demeaning attitude to the mentally retarded and to their work, which actually gives income to the companies they work in. But Mr Skedsmo's rapporteur is not alone in having such thoughts and attitudes. Today I have been informed that the Sørum Labour Party controlled company has this practice. I am also aware that several municipalities around the country have it, and that is simply unacceptable. Will the Minister of Social Affairs ensure that municipalities with such enterprises and jobs are now clearly informed that such a procedure is unacceptable? And what will the Minister of Social Affairs do specifically to prevent it from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1348	The representative Själi suggested more than saying that this is a working party phenomenon. You need more than two municipalities to cover it. I think it might be more of a phenomenon that has arisen in municipalities that have had bad advice and that have not seen how they should manage to do it. It doesn't make it any better to try to "stupid" people with significant disabilities. I'll see if I can find a way to communicate this back to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1355	I thank you for your answer. If there had been right-wing municipalities doing this, it's no better – just so it's said. But now there were examples from workers' party-driven municipalities that came into the house here. There can be no problem releasing the few heads that this is about. For those with mental retardation, this is about the same thing that it does for all of us – that we get to take advantage of our resources and our working capacity, that we get to develop ourselves and contribute to society, because they do. We have such an enterprise on Eidsvoll, which works very well, where there is a great deal of respect for the work done by mentally retarded people. This gives comfort and quality of life, and it makes life meaningful. I am pleased that the Social Minister will now look at opportunities to send a clear and clear message to the municipalities on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1366	I agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1374	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The drug use in Norway is increasing and the number of overdose deaths is alarmingly high. This happens despite more information, increasing resources and information about the dangers of these substances. What measures does the Council of State need to take to prevent this unfortunate development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1383	The representative addresses a very important topic. It is true that drug abuse in our country is increasing. The State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research has recently estimated that the number of injecting drug users has doubled during the 1990s and that there are now between 9 000 and 12 000 people taking drugs on a regular basis. We also have an alarming increase in the number of overdose deaths. In 2000, more overdoses died than in previous years – 327 people lost their lives in this way. Today, we are facing a situation where international illicit drug production and trafficking are greater than ever. Heroin is available throughout the country. The fabric is cleaner and cheaper. This is a dangerous combination when we know, at the same time, that many drug injectors are severely debilitated and perished both physically and mentally. This was confirmed by self-confidentity last Wednesday when I was with the Uropatrol at the Oslo Police Chamber out in the most congested environments of abuse. Oslo municipality reports that approx. 80 pst. of drugrelated deaths occur outside the public area — in private homes or in residential areas. Many of the deceased are not known for their auxiliaries. This is another new challenge. In addition to heroin and other drugs, there are probably 327 single reasons why these people died as a result of their drug abuse. The abusers are not a homogeneous group. General conclusions are difficult to draw. Of course, we have to do everything in our power to prevent and prevent death. It is, as Mr Kaland points out, that much has already been done to counter development. Nevertheless, we see that it goes as it does. It points to the need for a new investment. We need more knowledge in all areas. We need to get better grips on prevention and treatment. We need to get even more access to the drug and find the cynical behinders. The national meeting of the Workers’ Party decided to draw up an action plan on drugs. We are now doing this work, and we are going to come back strongly in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1396	I am pleased with what the Council of State said here, that an action plan on drugs should come. I think I need that. When we look at the age of those who use drugs, it gets lower and lower. Abuse has been registered as low as 14-15 years. The reasons are many, as pointed out by the Council of State, but it is also that the stronger drugs have become cheaper, and they mix pills with alcohol, as they often use, and many young people try drugs simply because it is exciting. They don't think they're going to depend on the substance either. I also see that the number of clients in psychiatric wards has been strongly increasing in the last year. I think the increase was at 25 pst. in some institutions, and there was an increase in younger clients. I think this is a very difficult area, and that the whole community has to take responsibility for this. We cannot afford to be indifferent to the major problem of drug and other drug abuse. It is right, as the Council of State says, that we must do an active prevention work, but also that of the post-protection must be strongly incorporated into the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1405	I'm very concerned about this. I have said it many times, and I can repeat it here: there is hardly any war today that is not funded by drug sales. It is such that our youth almost falls on the land of war far away from where the conflict is. We also see that ecstasy and the type of drug are taking care of some of the young people who have not been drug users in the past, who may have experimented more with alcohol. It seems to offer a type of tension that we have not seen before. At the same time, long-term and high consumption of this type of drug leads to new mental disorders, and that is why we are now seeing an increase in psychiatry. That's why I repeat: we need more knowledge, we need more knowledge, and we need to be better at both prevention and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1417	Only a few final comments. I have to say that drugs scare me today. I thought it was a very serious problem, and I could have thought that the Council of State, who knows this area, had an assessment of how this with ecstasy works, if perhaps one or two or three times the use of ecstasy contributed to the overall dependence of young people. That's what I've just read in research reports from America. When I go down to the East Railway and take the plane back home and see young people who are in operation, who are open and taking syringes, or who are in heroin shock, I feel like laughing, because I think it's so scary. I think we don't have to be indifferent to this problem. Therefore, I look forward to the action report to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1426	Ecstasy is, as I said, a substance we don't know all about yet. In terms of how much is needed to become dependent, it is enough with ecstasy as with other drugs that it is individualised. I have plans – almost clear – that I am going to present about some special measures in relation to ecstasy, especially to gain knowledge about the parents, because I think that if we do not have parents in the work to be done now, we will not get any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1443	This question has been drawn. So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1451	This question, from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1454	‘A number of Tournament operators have complained about the compensation mechanism for car diesel charging for ESA. The background for this is the different competitive conditions that apply between these operators. ESA has now decided to launch a formal investigation procedure, which is likely to lead to Norway being convicted of illegal subsidisation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to equate the autodiesel compensation scheme between express buses and coaches?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1461	It is true that ESA has started a formal investigation procedure on the compensation mechanism for car diesel duty for express buses, i.e. bus routes located outside the County Subsidy Scheme for Bus Routes. It is too early in the process that I have any opinion whether Norway will be convicted of illegal subsidisation or not. The exemption from the car diesel tax for buses was lifted in the context of the treatment of the landfill proposal on green taxes. At the same time, two compensation schemes were introduced for regular buses with effect from 1999. One was applicable to bus routes within the county grant scheme. The other one was for express buses, and it's this one that's filed for ESA. The purpose of the suspension of the exemption was for bus companies to take into account the external costs of road use in their investment and operation decisions. In order to prevent a deterioration in the competitive situation of this part of public transport vis-à-vis private cars, Stortinget wanted the two mentioned compensation schemes to be introduced. Regular buses are required to carry out regular services in accordance with the published timetable and tariffs to meet general needs. I do not see that the coaches have the same obligations and thus the corresponding function. Therefore, no compensation mechanism was established for buses in connection with the suspension of the exemption from the car diesel charge. In the light of these assessments, I do not think it appropriate to take any initiative to establish a compensation scheme for motor-diesel buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1474	I'm sorry, of course. As the minister probably knows, the Progress Party strongly opposed the imposition of a charge on buses. The introduction of an unfair compensation scheme would lead to discrimination, claims the Procedural Party. So we see the result right over here. I would like to quote from a document from the Norway delegation to the European Union, which confirms this. Public support is provided for express bus operators and ESA’s decision to open formal investigation procedure. It says: ‘For the sake of order, it is noted that ESA will not normally go to the step they have now taken without being serious. Therefore, if the situation in Norway is not reversed, much is needed to avoid a decision on illegality. As the case will then be, it cannot be completely ignored that ESA will make use of its right to demand reimbursement of the aid payments." I would like comments from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1488	The representative Svendsen presented this as if it had been OK for ESA if the tourism industry had also had such support. First of all, we don't know anything about it. Secondly, there is every reason to believe that we might have had two cases on our backs and not one. Here we also stand at one of the points of Norwegian policy where the Progress Party clearly stands out, namely in terms of fees. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that there should be a level of charges that corresponds to the costs of the activity carried out on society. The party of progress is of a different opinion. The majority have set up a charging system to enable this to be done. My approach to this problem is then: when such a charging system leads to adverse effects on public transport, the State should support it. We do so in relation to both regular buses and express buses. The same is not true in relation to the transport of motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1497	I just want to say that even though the majority makes a wrong decision, that decision doesn't make more right. At the time of its introduction, the Party of Progress was fully aware that this would lead to discrimination. That shows the result. We have now started a formal investigation. If the tour operators had been treated differently here, we would have received two letters instead of one, said the minister. The best thing would have been, as we said then, and as we say today, that you had free diesel for all the companies. That would have given you equal treatment. I hope the Minister will take this into account and come back to Stortinget with proposals for something like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1506	The Progress Party wants dramatic reductions in fees. That's no news. On the part of the Government, we believe it is right to have a charging regime in which it is the user – in this case airlines and buses – who, through the fees, pays for the costs they incur to society. Then we enter into support schemes where necessary, including: on the public transport side. It's a system we want to continue in the future, and then we'll see how the case goes with ESA. I hope that, in view of the fact that this is a scheduled service, we will be able to convince you that it is still possible to support this in the way we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1513	We're going to go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1519	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The runway is in a worse condition than before, the Railway Agency admits in an eye-catching letter to the Riksadvokat. This is in stark contrast to what has been claimed in the last three years. It is said that the safety against collision is somewhat worse than before. Is the Council satisfied with this approx. one year after the AST accident, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that safety is as good as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1528	In a letter to the National Attorney in connection with the investigation of the AST accident, the Railway Agency refers, inter alia, to: for a risk analysis carried out for the departure procedure used in train operation in Norway since 1997. The analysis shows that this provides a slightly lower level of safety than that previously used on remote-controlled routes without automatic train trip. However, in connection with the reopening of the Rørosbahn by letter of 11 February 2000 to the Railway Agency, the State Railway Authority has set out conditions to compensate for this. The Authority has stated that, under the conditions set, the level of safety with the current operation of the Rørosbane will not be lower than that of the old take-off procedure, which was used before 1997. The Authority considers that the mode of operation initiated after the AST accident provides better safety than before the accident, by the fact that a single failure alone cannot cause an accident. I therefore refer to the assessment of the supervision in this case. With regard to the representative’s comment that ‘the runway is in a worse condition than before’, I can state that the railway system has stated that the standard on track, track and other technical installations on this route are higher today than ever before, and fully at the level of equivalent installations on other parts of the State railway network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1539	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, in my view, is not entirely proportionate to the information provided in an article in Hamar Arbeiderblad on 7 February 2001. It says: ‘The conclusion is that the new departure procedures do not compromise the safety of ATC routes. But on tracks such as Rørosbanen, Raumabanen and Nordlandsbanen, it is said in black that ‘safety against collision is somewhat less protected than before’. This applies even if the stations are operated by a signalman.’ A little further down in the article, Information Manager Kjell Hill at the Railway Station says that ‘the new recognition may have consequences for the operation of the Røros Railway until the ATC is put into service’. This, I think, is disturbing, and I want the Council of State's further opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1551	On such questions, of course, I will stick to the assessments of the Railway Agency and the Authority in the first place. As far as safety, safety and authorisation issues are concerned, I will place the utmost emphasis on the assessments of supervision, not least in relation to the issue of whether traffic has to stop if supervision does not ensure its continued safety. I refer again to what I said about the supervision assessments of the Rørosbahn after the reopening of the traffic in a letter dated 11 February last year. Accordingly, compensatory measures were put in place to ensure that the mode of operation is now at a satisfactory level after the supervision has been assessed. I have also not been informed from the inspection that there is an irresponsible risk regarding other tracks, but of course I will take another round of supervision of the basis in the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1562	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He says he'll go further into this, and I'm very happy about that, because this is certainly very important. We have quite fresh memories of the tragic accidents that have occurred, and something like that must not repeat itself. In its reply, the Council of State says the following: ‘The oversight has stated that, under the conditions set, the level of safety with the current operation on the Rørosbane will not be lower...’;» The Council of State then informs me, as I understand it, that the conditions to be set are set, and that measures have been taken and put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1574	I deal with the assessments of supervision, and I assume that the supervision ensures that both the conditions to be imposed are imposed, and that there is a follow-up based on the implementation of the measures imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1582	I would like to address the following questions to the Minister for Transport: «In budget entry. S. No 13 for 2000-2001 the Transport Committee committed 52.5 million. kronor in increased support for ferry operations. The reason was to improve the discount schemes for those who travel most by ferry. It has now been found that the new tariffs from the Directorate-General for Road do not offer cheaper ferry services to major users. If this results in correctness, what can the Council of State do to correct the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1591	The allocation has been used to increase the discount for vehicles paid with a so-called value card, from 30 to 40 pst. The monthly card price for a person is on average reduced by 10 pst. For agreed school-children transport, the discount rate has increased from 17 to 25 pst. The amendments were applicable from 1 February of this year. It provides a significantly better discount system for the majority of discount travellers, and I believe that this is in line with the desire of the Committee on Transport to improve the discount schemes for those who travel the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1596	The industry in coastal areas has a side-effect on the market, an additional disadvantage with expensive ferries and time costs such as waiting, etc. This is the result. We know that only in western Norway, business has an extra cost for ferries of 400-500 million. kr. In the committee setting, it was said: ‘The Committee points out... that large costs are incurred by business and by commuters who depend on the ferry. The Committee therefore wishes to improve the discount schemes for those who travel the most by ferry.’ And in Stavanger Aftenblad of February 7th this year, it says: ‘In the letter, transport industries question the motives of the Directorate-General of Road and their loyalty to the task assigners of the Stortinget in this matter. «As central representatives of the transport industry in the West, we are strongly provoked by the behaviour of the Directorate of Road in this matter,» the letter states. Then my question is, is there a right distribution between big consumers, who travel a lot, and business, when you look at what's done?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1613	I'll say it as simple as that with well 52 million. This was what was available, and the address tag was business and commuter. So this has gone to an increased discount on the value card. And vouchers, after what I've been informed, are used, of course, by major users and not least by business, but also by commuters, and monthly cards are used almost exclusively by commuters. As I understand it, this is a good way to spend this money. I have to say that I perceive that the criticism that has been directed towards this, perhaps more is in the direction that there should have been further discounts. But it goes without saying that with additional discounts you also had to have additional appropriations. I feel that the appropriations have been properly used here in relation to the objectives that emerged during the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1620	I think we agree that the appropriations should be larger, and that the appropriations are used as they are said here. But focusing on cheaper ferries was a good start to this budget. For the first time in a long time, we have reduced the ferry costs instead of increasing them, when prices have otherwise gone up. But I think there's a difference in the perception of what is the use of cards by business and what is the use of commercial transport in this case. The so-called vouchers seem to me to be less used by large consumers from business, and in the article in Stavanger Aftenblad which I mentioned instead, it goes on to say: ‘This is most likely to be useful and enjoyable for cabin owners who can use different ferry connections...’ I therefore ask that you perhaps look at how much the card is used by business compared to the other type of card, where the business must have one on each ferry section they travel. There's one thing I'd like to ask the council to look at to speed up the process and get to arrangements that allow a major consumer, for example a wagon train, who travels through a coastal area, to get the maximum discount by using one and the same card.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1632	It is such that the wholesale discounts that were before this change were essentially 30 p.m., either as a gift voucher or so-called a wholesale card. By raising the voucher to 40 pst. you will also have an opportunity to use it to the extent possible for all user types. This will vary slightly depending on how much you have to pay in advance. I cannot, with my best will, see it differently than that any major user will have the opportunity to achieve 40 pst. Discount, against previous 30 pst. Perhaps some of their ticketing procedures have to be changed in relation to the user, but it may also be appropriate in relation to the companies. Because, after all, we're all interested in e.g. the collection of tickets is as effective as possible and costs do not take that direction. I must say that here I feel reasonably sure that this is going to be in the right pockets, literally, provided that you are reasonably willing to adapt to the routine side. So you have a pretty good payment for that, and I'm also assuming you do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1642	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «Coastal oil preparedness is very poor. Signals may now indicate that the Government takes this partly seriously and that additional appropriations are allocated to it in the 2002 budget. Does the Council of State consider this to be satisfactory, or can additional appropriations be expected already in the current year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1651	Operations such as the discharge of ships and the efficient collection of marine oil are often difficult and risky. The actions of the last breakdowns have shown that we have a readiness to deal with such difficult operations. When the ‘Green Ålesund’ and ‘John R’ were lost, the intercommunal preparedness and state preparedness were quickly in place with bilges and equipment. The oil on the sea and in the beach zone was quickly collected, and both boats were emptied for oil. At the same time, these actions have shown that there are improvement points of both a preventive and a preparedness nature, and this is what the Government has now seized. State pollution control has recently carried out a comprehensive environmental risk and preparedness analysis of State oil protection preparedness. The analysis has been aimed at clarifying how state preparedness to major cases of acute pollution can be even better based on the environmental risks posed by oil spills from shipping. The Ministry of the Environment received the report in mid-January of this year. State pollution control comes here with proposals on how to develop the country’s preparedness for acute oil pollution in the years to come, based on the analyses that have now been carried out. The proposals of State pollution control go on more oil protection equipment, training and exercises as well as a change of organisation. The Ministry has asked the SFT to send the proposals to the hearing, and we will review the report and its opinions thoroughly before a decision is taken on which measures should be implemented. However, I would like to make it clear that strengthening oil protection equipment must focus on more than the need for mechanical oil protection equipment. Strengthening preparedness must therefore include both preventive measures to prevent accidents and measures taken to limit the level of injury after accidents have occurred. The SFT proposal will be seen in the context of the systematic review of the Government now taking both preventive and preparedness measures. I want to come back over the year with suggestions on how to improve today's preparedness. This will also involve proposals of a budgetary nature, without me being able to predict this in any detail today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1660	I thank you for your answer. I see that the government has at least prioritised this problem area. Governments are also concerned that some areas are more vulnerable than others along the long coast we have. One of these areas is outside Rørvik in Nord-Trøndelag, also called Nærøsundet, where approx. 30000 vessels pass annually. Rørvik port has 2,700 calls per year and is the main fishing port of Nord-Trøndelag. In fact, almost 90 pst are landed. of all the wild caught fish in the North Trøndelag in this area. The breeding industry in this area has a value in advance of more than 350 million. kr, or 15 000 tonnes of salmon per year. years. Then it goes without saying that a shipshavar would have disastrous consequences outside this area. My question is then: is this an area that the Council of State wants to give special priority to the disasters that can occur in such an area as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1669	The government, as I explained, is working on a broad basis both with the prevention measures and with looking at how to improve the preparedness itself. The State pollution control proposal for improved preparedness includes an in-depth assessment of both the appropriate and appropriate equipment to be procured and the location where it should be located. Specially vulnerable coastal areas have been taken into account in this assessment and this will be the basis for the Government’s assessments and proposals on the location of oil protection equipment, the location of drills and the organisation of further training and training of inter-municipal emergency response forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1674	Can I understand the Council of State so that the area to which I refer is already prioritised and under assessment in the Government? The Council of State referred to some breakdowns that have occurred, in which the time has gone well in the field of preparedness, but the situation is such that, in this area, there is a distance from Lake Sandness of 77,8 nautical miles, and from Rørvik to Örland it is 98,2 nautical miles, i.e. that it takes 12 to 16 hours to reach the standby. We also know that in this area, which consists of 6,000 islands, hollows and cuttings, there are several thousand targets that are set dry twice a day because of floods and feathers, and in a shipshavary in this area it will only take an hour before oil spills will possibly reach the area where the farms are located. My question to the Council of State is: Is it possible to get concrete appropriations now to the area in question, when we also know that Vikna and Rørvik have a regulated area ready for an oil protection depot?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1681	I thought it was natural to draw out the concrete examples we just have from how oil protection equipment has worked, because it shows that we have a good basis to build on when we're going to strengthen it further. So this is clearly a basis together with the assessment that it's a potential for improvement. We have many vulnerable areas along our coast, and the aim is for us to get better preparedness along the coast. Prevention is perhaps the most important measure we can take, and here we go out with better labelling, we go in to use the radar data of Defence in a more appropriate way for civil shipping, and we have to evaluate where the oil protection equipment is to be placed in order to have the maximum effect of the equipment we have today, and the equipment we are to put in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1696	The question falls because the questioner is not present. Question 21 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1704	‘Norway has received criticism from international monitoring bodies for our care activities. The Action Plan on Human Rights emphasises the reduction of custody use and the restriction of residence in police detention. In a hearing note, the Minister of Justice proposes to open the way for the police to hold a person in prison for 3 days prior to the presentation to the courts. Does the Council of State believe that this is in line with the Action Plan and the Grand Duchy's desire to better respect for the European Convention on Human Rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1711	It is true that some aspects of Norway’s use of custody have been criticised by the International Authority. I take this criticism very seriously. The European Torture Monitoring Committee, CPT, last year criticised Norway’s use of letter and visitation bans and other restrictions. The use of restrictions was also criticised by the UN Torture Monitoring Committee in 1998. Furthermore, the UN Committee on Human Rights in 1999 criticised unreasonable length of care in some cases. In the past, Norway has been criticised for the long-term use of police detention, but this problem is now much less and the criticism has not been repeated. Today, a sentence from police detention to prison is usually transferred no later than 24 hours after the order for custody has been issued. Norway has not been criticised for using care too often. A unanimous vote on this matter also took place last Friday in order to permit the use of law enforcement in several cases and to make more use of custody in the event of a breach of a visitation ban. In the debate, no one raised the recommendation of the Ministry and the Justice Committee that care should be used more effectively as an instrument against repeaters. The problem of long-term care needs to be solved by improving the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. The proposal for an extended manufacturing period must be seen in the light of this. Today, an arrest must be brought before the court no later than the day following the attack. I stress that the conditions for keeping a person under arrest are the same as the conditions for custody. The main difference is that the intervention will become more disproportionate the longer the period of intervention. Where the court finds that the conditions of custody are present, the period of imprisonment shall normally be set at two or four weeks. This means that a target will often be kept in custody for two or four weeks, even if in a few days it would have been possible to reduce the risk of evidence loss by conducting several examinations or witness interviews. In other words, the aim of the proposal sent to the hearing is to increase the legal certainty of the objectives by shortening the overall prison term. I have noticed that the proposal has been criticised in some media, but I have so far only received a few answers to the hearing. The hearing period shall be 1 March. The consultation note discussed the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights. I can't see that a change will be problematic in relation to our international commitments. In several European countries, the deadline has been the same for many years or longer. In Sweden, sight must be produced no later than 1 p.m. 12 three days after apprehension, and in the Netherlands within three days and 15 hours. Other countries have shorter deadlines, but the point is that within certain frameworks we have the freedom to choose the solution that we find best. In this context, I would like to stress that the time limit for manufacture following the proposal remains ‘the shortest possible’. It is not intended that the maximum period should become the general rule. In order to prevent abuse, the proposal also states that the purpose of the proposal is to require a public defender if he or she is not released within 24 hours, and that any change initially shall be valid only for a trial period of three years. I have not decided whether the proposal should be promoted for Stortinget. In the event that the Government chooses to submit a proposal for an extended manufacturing period, the intention will be to reduce the maintenance period and increase legal certainty. In this case, this will be in line with the Action Plan on Human Rights and the Storting's wish to take better account of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1731	It was reassuring that one would await the rest of the hearing statements before a final decision, because I think it is of great value that the recordings that are coming are given weight. I can show that the head of the Association has called the Minister of Justice's proposal a proposal that is more concerned with practical matters than with legal certainty. And so the concern that is behind the question that has been asked today is very much shared by others. My starting point is that no one should be subjected to the three-day isolation burden before being presented to a judge to assess the basis for the detention. I have a strong fear that such an opportunity will be used and thus become an additional burden for those who are involved. And my question is: in the light of the debate that has taken place on Norway's policy in this area, does one not see that it will be perceived as a signal to go in the wrong direction after the problem of long stay in police detention and the burden of it has diminished?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1738	I refer to what I said in the answer. If the Government ends up promoting this proposal, it is because we believe that this together will reduce the total use of custody imprisonment and thus increase legal certainty for those who may end up in custody. That'll be the rationale. I can't see that it's contrary to human rights, then we wouldn't have promoted such a proposal. We have sent it to the hearing because we now want to hear what the hearing bodies say. And I remind you that the proposal was initially put forward by a unanimous working group, broadly composed, as a proposal that could help both reduce the time spent in criminal proceedings and reduce the total time spent in prison. I also remind you that, together with this proposal, a number of other proposals have been put to the consultation, which should also contribute in the right direction as regards the use of custody, among others. with a shorter normal prison term and greater restrictions on the use of a letter and visit ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1743	In the assessment to be made now, can the Council of State consider whether there are other practical circumstances with which to deal, so that a fine may be imposed on the disadvantages that may be present today? One option is then to facilitate access to judges and have open courts, which will make it easier for the police to present people to a judge. Could there be an alternative solution instead of broadening the opportunity to hold people under police arrest? And then I want to ask a question in the extension of it. There have been many critical questions about the framework conditions for people under police arrest. The question is whether there should not be a minimum of dignity to those who are in such a situation – the loads are at least reinforced if people are to stay in a police arrest for up to three days – so they can have a tick and a mattress and have the opportunity to shower before being presented to a judge. Isn't it natural to look at these questions whether it's one or three days?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1750	Yes, I am willing to assess all possible practical solutions that can help improve the situation for those who are either under police arrest or in custody. It is clear from the consultation note that even if the manufacturing period is extended to three days, there should be no police detention beyond what is currently the time limit. So if you want to promote the proposal, it will be combined with transferring to general prison during the three-day period, and not in police custody. I am not so sure whether 24-hour judicial activities will help solve the problem we are discussing here, for the purpose of proposing an extended manufacturing deadline, is just giving the police time to possibly reduce the suspicion, so that there is a basis for release, i.e. either reducing the suspicion or reducing the risk of evidence loss. And you don't solve that by doing 24-hour justice. That's not the problem. The problem is that the police are somehow forced to produce for prison because they have not taken the steps that could possibly lead to a suspicion or a risk of evidence being wasted. And that's one of the things you want to achieve with the proposal, and that's been the reasons behind the proposal sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1760	I have the following questions: ‘The Minister of Justice previously stated that border surveillance was well maintained in the context of the Schengen implementation. Following this, it has been established that there are insufficient coastal surveillance resources available in South Norway and that border surveillance is only carried out by 3 small vessels from Halden to Rørvik. The number of foreign vessels is estimated to be more than 100000 per year. What does the Council of State, as responsible ministers for the implementation of the Schengen acquis, intend to do about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1769	The questions raised by the representative, Mr Stang, are highly relevant to the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. I have therefore found it appropriate to coordinate the answer with him. After both the Minister of Defence and my assessment, the border surveillance provided for by the Defence on land and at sea will be well maintained when the Schengen Agreement is launched next month. With regard to maritime border surveillance, which is the starting point of the question, it shall be stated that the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence, on the basis of the requirements of the Schengen Convention and the Schengen Manual, have assessed the seven vessels which, on a daily basis, patrols along the coast and in inland coastal waters, ‘internal coastguard’, which are sufficient to ensure the mobile supervision between fixed border crossing points. It has been stressed that it is natural to use the vessels most suitable for patrolling near-coastal waters for border surveillance purposes. The vessels of the «internal coastguard» operate along the whole coast. In South Norway and in North Norway, there are three and four vessels patrolling respectively. The Minister of Defence stresses that this is based on today’s assessment of the risk of uninhibited border crossing. Defence could deploy additional coastguard vessels to strengthen border surveillance where necessary. Neither I nor the Minister of Defense can tell us that there are insufficient resources for coastal surveillance in South Norway. The defence has more resources to do this, including: ships from the entire Naval Defense Force, Air Force Maritime Patrol Aircraft and papered civil aircraft. Furthermore, the respective defence commands receive important information from radar installations and satellite images. It may also be mentioned that the Defence is given a helicopter carrying coastguard vessel in South Norway when the new ‘Svalbard’ KV is deployed into operational service for the next year. In addition to these instruments, the Defence has provided more passive surveillance through the coastal monitoring system COSS. This system is based on ship reports and other self-reporting. Together, these sources contribute to the monitoring of coastal activity. The coastal radar chain of the day in South Norway is approaching the end of its lifetime. An investigation of the defence's needs is now under assessment in the Ministry of Defence. I would like to stress that the coastal radar chain is just one of many elements of the defense's maritime surveillance. In the case of the number of non-resident ships calling at Norwegian internal waters per year, the representative, Mr Stang, informed that this is approximately the same. It's 100,000. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that in 1998 it was registered approx. 32,000 calls from foreign non-military vessels to Norwegian port.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1782	I must thank you for a detailed and quite thorough answer, and for the information that came out. In the past, the Minister of Justice has stated that she feels confident that what has been provided for in border control and border surveillance is adequately protected. In the last two budgetary proposals, the coastal radar chains are considered as a significant contribution in this respect. However, the size has been informed that it is not possible to use the coastal radar and that those covering the most trafficked areas in South Norway are not even operating more than 15 hours per year. week. Furthermore, I have been able to track down the fact that the Maritime Monitoring Centre, which is to ensure the necessary coordination of existing monitoring resources, is now in place for the current year for the purposes of the Schengen implementation, is actually suspended until next year. This seems to suggest that the Council of State itself has stated that it has not been taken care of. Can the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1791	I refer to what I said in my answer, first of all that the coastal radar chain is just one of many elements of the defense's maritime surveillance, then that it is approaching the end of its lifetime, and that the investigation of the defense's need for this is now at the discretion of the Ministry of Defence. I would also like to point out that the assessment we have made in the context of the Schengen implementation regarding the threat assessment of the current and future risk of illegal immigration and cross-border crime across our maritime borders has been communicated to the EU. In the evaluation of our preparatory actions, the EU has also received a detailed presentation of our quantitative and qualitative maritime border monitoring, and it is fully recognised by the EU as part of our Schengen participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1798	In the past, the Council of State has stated that she cannot see that the challenge of border control and Norwegian sovereignty at the external maritime border is generally significantly different now than before. Now that we've heard about the status of the coastal radars, we know that the monitoring of a coastline corresponding to the Bergen-Tromsø route is being maintained by three small coastguard vessels, yes, in fact, there are no other resources in South Norway. This is confirmed, inter alia: in the settings of the Defence Policy Selection. This indicates that coastal surveillance in South Norway is comparable to carrying out a high level of traffic control on the Oslo-Tromsø route, for example, using three UP patrols over 24 hours seven days a week. Can the Council of State understand that the challenges are greater as border surveillance has not been met in the past and that it does not appear to be a priority of the Defence in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1807	I really can't help but refer to what I've said. We have made an assessment of what needs are thought to be present, and in the light of today's assessment of the danger of uninhibited border crossing, the monitoring I have outlined in my main response is sufficient. I also point out that I said that the defence would be able to deploy further coastguard vessels to strengthen border surveillance if necessary. In other words, my assessment is that, in the light of the threat assessment that has been carried out, the monitoring that we have is sufficient in the context of the Schengen implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1818	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «A majority of the Committee on Churches, Education and Research prayed at the beginning of the budget. S. No 12 for 1998-1999 The Government arranged for the Norwegian Research Council to start work on expanding the information technology building in Gaustaddalen as early as 1999. It is provided that the Research Council shall own the building. It's given the opportunity to borrow. The size has decided to increase the capacity of IT training. It is therefore urgent to build in place. Where does the matter stand, and will the Council of State ensure that there is progress in the work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1827	The Church, Education and Research Committee requested at the beginning of the budget. S. No 12 for 1998-99 The Government to facilitate the extension of the Computer Science Building in the Gaustadbeck Valley. In the light of the Committee's comments, in January 1999, the Ministry asked the University of Oslo to submit a space programme in line with the Committee's comments. In June 1999, the Ministry sent a request to the Norwegian Research Council to see the proposed space programme in conjunction with other development proposals in the area. The Research Council, in cooperation with the University of Oslo, Statsbyggen and other stakeholders, has tried to develop a coordinated overall plan for the development of the current part of the Gaustadbeck valley where the location of new buildings, traffic solutions, etc. is included. The proposal, which was transmitted in April 2000, includes, inter alia: an exchange of premises between the original computer building and the proposed one, by placing the Institute of Computer Science essentially in a new building. The old computer science building has been proposed to gather the University's Information Technology Centre and to give Norwegian Regnesentral more premises. State buildings have estimated the cost of the total project at about 560 million. kr at prince level April 2000. This is a preliminary material and therefore there is some uncertainty about the estimate of costs. The total increase in rental costs of the University of Oslo could amount to between 40 and 50 million. kr per. years. The Ministry now assesses the material submitted, and on the basis of this assessment I will return to the further follow-up of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1838	There was a good answer to the first part of the question, about where the matter is. If the government will make sure that you get ahead of work, it was less clear. I understood the answer so that State Building had completed its assessments in April 2000, i.e. barely a year ago. Since then, this project has clearly been located in the department. It's a pretty long time, and I expected the department to have come a little further than to assess. It has now had one year to assess, so I had expected that they had come a little further. What is the matter is that IT is a bet area. In the research report, one has said that IT should be one of the four thematic areas of activity. We know that the University needs larger premises. We know that they need to know if they're going to be able to undertake to train more people with that kind of skills, if they're going to be able to receive more fellows. A new building in connection with the current information technology building is absolutely necessary, so I will ask the Council of State to answer whether he will get ahead of this work, so that this building can be realized if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1855	We are now constantly looking at the material that has been presented and making an assessment. But I don't think we can switch to a form of treatment where we take simple construction through the Questionnaire and clarify when they're going to be built – we have another budgetary process. There are also many other buildings in the university and higher education sectors that have a significant impact on research and IT activities, which are in line. We have a real science building in Trondheim that has not yet been completed, and we have colleges that are badly in need of new buildings. So this has to enter into a budgetary context and be seen in that context. But I will promise that I will pay attention to this matter in the future, and come back to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion with an assessment of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1862	I wonder if there are any misunderstandings here, because the Stortinget has been clear that this building should not be State Building or the department responsible for it, this is a building that the Norwegian Research Council is going to build. And the point is that it is the Research Council that will be the owner, the Research Council that will be the borrower – it is the Research Council that is responsible for this construction. So what you have to get back to Stortinget is a little bit unclear. I assume that if the Research Council is given a mandate, they will be able to do what the Stortinget provided when the Stortinget made its decision that the Research Council should be the owner, stand as a borrower to finance this building. This need therefore not be considered in relation to other construction projects that we have in the higher education and university sectors. I think it's important that you realize that this was the Storting's premise, and for that reason, it should have gone faster. This should be able to be done by mistake, as these priorities are set. I would like the Council of State to confirm that he has the same opinion of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1873	It is true, as the representative of Rikvam says, that in the requests of the Stortinget it is provided that the Research Council should own the building. This does not mean that it does not have budgetary implications, for example: University of Oslo. I said in my first answer that this could involve an increased rent for the University of Oslo of between 40 and 50 million. kr per. years. This is clearly a budgetary matter, and must also be seen in that context. But I'm going to make my point that we're coming back to the further follow-up of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1881	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Norway still has the possibility to participate in the International Reading Survey for 4th Classes [[PIRLS]] Will the Council of State ensure that Norway is able to participate in this project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1890	The representative of Inge Wohnning believes it would be useful for Norway to participate in the International Reading Survey ‘Progress in International Reading Literacy Study’, abbreviated PIRLS. This study is a follow-up to the IEA Reading Literacy Study, which was conducted among 9-year-olds and 14-year-olds in 1991. Norway participated in the 1991 survey. The survey data collection shall take place in April to May 2001. Iceland and Sweden participate in the Nordic countries. Norway participates in several international studies under the auspices of the OECD and the IEA. In this context, I have stressed that Norway is participating in the OECD study PISA, the International Student Assessment Programme. The study focuses on 15-year-olds' knowledge, skills and attitudes related to reading, mathematics and natural sciences. Reading was the main area of the survey in 2000, and the results will be presented in autumn 2001. I am interested in getting good information about the situation in the Norwegian school, with a view to introducing measures. In the autumn of 2000, a test scheme was set up to monitor reading skills at 2nd and 7th class stages. It is also briefed on this through the 2001 KUF budget proposal. Through this system, we already have a good system to follow students' reading skills. The screening tests shall be useful locally, for each school and municipality, so that the training can be well organised for each student. A teacher's guide has been developed and ideas attached to the screening tests. The Ministry has also provided methodological guidance on reading and writing training, which has been very well received at school. I will intensify work on monitoring and developing literacy, and also consider introducing mandatory reading studies for 3rd or 4th class steps. I would also like to ask the Centre for Reading Research to conduct follow-up studies on the results found by the Centre in 2000, with a view to finding out whether this is a real level decrease after reform 97, or whether there are other reasons for the results shown by the study. I also consider taking the initiative to carry out a longitudinal study of the reading skills of Norwegian children. Furthermore, I will follow up on the evaluation of the Association, the PPT competence development programme and the school leaders, where reading and writing difficulties are included as a priority area. I will also bet on further development of teachers' skills. Higher education/teacher training will need to be given a significant responsibility to follow up research results from the Centre for Reading Research and other research results on the literacy of Norwegian children. Of course, I will also follow closely the Norwegian results of the PISA study when they are presented in the autumn. Reading skills are a fundamental prerequisite for acquiring new knowledge and coping with society. It is an important task to catch students who have difficulty reading as early as possible. I put great emphasis on following up this field carefully. Based on an overall assessment, I have found that we will have a good basis for assessing the reading skills of Norwegian students over time through the test of mandatory screening tests in the 2nd and 7th classes and new measures under planning. In addition, when we participate in the international study PISA, I believe that we also have a basis for international comparison. Then we'll be able to continuously evaluate what further studies are needed to make Norwegian school even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1909	I thank the Council of State for a very long answer. It could also have been shorter, namely ‘no’ – if I understood it correctly. I have no problem joining all the general views of the Council of State, and I also think that some of the measures he said he would consider are positive. However, the Council of State was guilty of a slight misunderstanding when he referred to the representative of Wohnning's view that Norwegian participation in this study would be useful. In fact, it is our national literacy centre that has asked Norway to participate in it, and has justified why they consider it an important part of the Centre's work to monitor reading skills at different stages of Norwegian school. The purpose of this is also to provide a complete picture of the progress from 1st to 10th grade, because it is necessary to get a correct picture and thus also have the basis for putting in place the right measures. So my question is, Is that correctly understood – was the Council's answer no? Does this mean that the Council of State considers this to be completely different from our National Centre for Reading?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1923	Firstly, I wonder if the representative's salary lost some of the long answer – perhaps it was too far. I said in my first answer that I would also consider introducing mandatory reading tests at 3rd or 4th class. In doing so, we will achieve the evaluation over time and at different stages that the representative calls for. It may be equally appropriate to have the continuity and study of participation in another study carried out by international organisations. So we're going to evaluate the types of research that we're going to carry out on an ongoing basis. I believe that this is a long and important step that this government has taken by introducing for the first time mandatory screening of the reading skills for 2nd and 7th class steps. But I think we're going to go further in that direction in order to have good tools to measure the quality of the reading and writing skills, and not least to help those who have difficulty reading and writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1930	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and assume that there must be a small memory shift out and going. It is actually not this government that has taken the initiative that was mentioned, it was the previous government and the previous Council of State that did. But the benefit of that is just as good for it. My question was whether the Council of State will ensure that Norway can participate in the international survey that is now on the table — if you are going to participate, it will have to be notified immediately. I realized that his answer to that is no, and I have to take note of that. But I do not think the studies he refers to are an adequate alternative. The point of international studies is that they offer a comparative perspective, and all our Nordic neighbouring countries have considered this international survey to be so useful and so important that they are involved. Then I find it a little difficult to understand that Norway can afford to renounce taking part in a professional survey as substantial as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1937	It is possible that the representative has more information about this than I do. According to the information I have, only Iceland and Sweden of our Nordic neighbouring countries are going to participate. Finland, Denmark and Norway do not intend to participate. Many international school-quality studies are carried out. I myself have been involved in a cooperation where Norway is actively participating in a joint effort to develop good quality indicators. I think we can learn a lot from international studies and international work on quality both on reading and on other aspects of school, but it can't be that the scale of whether we take this work seriously is whether we participate in all such studies. Other neighbouring countries have assessed it differently, some have assessed it as we do. But the focus on reading skills and measurable ways of checking quality is to work with it independently.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1946	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1963	The interpellation is taken up by the representative Helge Bjørnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1966	This interpellation is caused by an individual issue affecting the management of complex problems by the large community — such as life often species, but which the organisation of public activities reflects to a small extent. This is made visible today by the direct involvement of this interpellation under the scope of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Children and Family Affairs. Indirectly, several ministers are involved. Today, we are not going to discuss right and wrong in relation to the specific case, but the interpellant intends to clarify what structural obstacles are in place and where responsibility for these obstacles must be placed. In particular, I would have illuminated the children's legal status. The starting point is that the County Council of Troms has dealt with an appeal and established that the wrong response, namely an inadequate and unwanted response, is correct, and that a recommended and desired action is therefore not correct, and that those seeking help appear to be lawless. The situation is that a caring father who abuses drugs wants an offer of treatment for his problem. The case has implied a pediatric perspective, and it has been concluded that it is best for the child to follow the risk of an institution that is suitable for providing a treatment offer where the care and family perspective is maintained in parallel with the individual rehabilitation of the father. This is a situation that is not special. The special thing is that the difficult, complex issues — which include rehabilitation and child protection, or the misuse of drugs and, at the same time, serious mental or coercive problems, as well as other complex problems — often require adapted and costly efforts. Such efforts are not easy to adapt to the regular service offer. The less a municipality or county is, the less likely it is that such measures will be included in a plan than a budget. In Hedmark County, from which I come, such measures are incorporated into plan, but not into budget. This means that the measure that this case implies, a measure for fathers and children in one of the country’s own institutions, costs an estimated NOK 2 750 per day or over DKK 80000 per month. A long-term measure, which is not unusual, will trigger a separate cost of 1 million. kr per year. It is estimated to be 25 pst. of the budget of Hedmark County for that kind of action, and one had to trigger enormous creativity in order to release it. So it's the economy that's limiting, and I'm going to think that this is the situation of many county municipalities, not just Hedmark and Troms, which we've already heard of. In this context, it is timely to recall that during the year’s budgetary procedure, the Government Party and the Centre reduced the appropriations to the State Drug Clinic, which is a specialist institution for this matter with the treatment of drug users with children. The reduction was 3.1 million. kr, so that this highly specialised offer loses some of its profile and must be considered to be qualitatively worse today than it was last year. At the same time, the same majority increased the appropriations for care measures for which the service's special profile is prayer and hymnsong, by approximately 6 million. kr. I would like to hear whether it will be the Government Party's strategy to continue to give priority to the state, highly specialised measures such as municipalities and county councils need help to finance, to finance measures that are reasonable and that are definitely the responsibility of the municipalities and will not have particular problems in financing? In a question from the representative Karin Andersen for a written answer, the Minister of Social Affairs explains correctly how the law on social services should be understood. What one can derive is that if a county municipality does not have a sufficiently diverse offer to drug users in its plan and/or does not reach agreement with municipalities on reimbursement of costs associated with voluntary placement under the Child Protection Act, the county council has no obligation to contribute to the professionally recommended implementation of the measure. Or, as the minister says, the municipalities have no right of instruction against the county council, and the county council's ability to amend the decision is, however, very limited in cases where the refusal is justified by the county's financial framework. Does the Council of State believe that it should be such that the legal status of the child, namely the right of the child to have his/her interest safeguarded, should be entirely linked to the economy of the county? Do we really need any other law than a budget decision? So we can say that the problem is to perceive as a budgetary problem: the economy of the municipalities and county councils, and that means that responsibility is well on the way in this room. During the budgetary procedure and later on, as in a medium-sized «Muppet Show», the state councils have repeated that the finances of the municipalities and county councils have been significantly strengthened. Outside this hall, it's hard to see anything about this. On the other hand, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association – KS – agreed in advance of the budgetary proceedings during consultations that the municipal sector spent nearly DKK 10 billion more than annual revenue and in excess of DKK 6 billion related to operations. This year's budget is a zero-sum game, and there is therefore a expectation that Kommune-Norway will reduce its operating costs to NOK 6 billion in a short time. It's this thing that's backed up to discuss any other priorities in the county economy that would benefit these groups. In addition, we have earmarked grants or guarantee schemes in a number of areas. In the county municipality, the choice is between fulfilling the waiting time guarantee in somatic health or giving priority to child protection, drug use and partial psychiatry. The latter will lead to guarantee liability in health, and is therefore not recommended by Stortinget. Thus, it cannot be that the Stortinget first creates a guarantee scheme and then the county council recommends not to comply with the guarantee, so as to send the bill to the county council when others assume the guarantee liability. What exactly does the Council of State recommend? Will the Council of State consider strengthening psychiatry guarantee liability and the corresponding benefits in terms of action guarantee for those in need of child protection and care? Will the Council of State demonstrate why such problems should be assessed completely differently from those in somatic health? I have tried to draw up a number of questions/problems that it is important to clarify. I don't expect us to do it today. I know that the Council of State is working on a report on drug treatment. I expect that these other questions are also under work. Among other things, we have work on shifting responsibility for hospitals to the state, and in this context, psychiatry is likely to be involved. Psychiatry includes a lot of drugs, so I expect that the government will also have to consider whether or not drug treatment and then child protection, which is closely related, comes to the state. There's also a question that's interesting in this context, because it's not that we have the answer to these questions that we've raised, other than that we think it's completely unsatisfactory that when a case is so clearly defined, where the child's interest is defined, it turns out that we have no means of implementing measures. I believe that in these areas of psychiatric patients, drug addicts and children whose care is threatened, we do not have legal protection in addition to what are the priorities that are in the budget at all times. And when we give others very good protection and at the same time have tight budgets, it must mean that the Storting knowingly and willfully, and thus the departments, ensure that someone does not get what ought to happen to them. I believe it is this hall's responsibility to make sure that we get this sorted out in a different way. I want to hear from the council if she can share that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e1998	The President considers the reference to the 'Muppet Show' to be a poor parliamentary speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2001	The government has children's living conditions on the agenda. Children in families with drug problems represent a particular challenge. As a general authority, we have a specific responsibility to ensure that decisions that have consequences for children are primarily aimed at caring for the interests of the child. We know a lot about the serious effects it can have for children and young people to grow up in families with drug problems. This means increasing the risk of behavioural disorders, social withdrawal, bullying, learning difficulties and/or other psychosocial problems. We know that more than half of those who are drug addicts themselves come from home where parents have an abuse problem. Some parents’ situation is so serious that they need to enter a 24-hour treatment institution to get out of their drug use. In those cases where child protection services conclude that it is best for the child to be together with parents in an institution, we need a system that allows us to use common resources to care for these children across the street. The law allows for the provision of space by the Child Welfare Service, for example: in furniture homes when the parents agree to it. Similarly, child protection services can provide accommodation for parents and children in institutions for drug users. If the county municipality is to become the reimbursement manager for voluntary placement under the Child Protection Act, an agreement must be concluded between the municipality and the county municipality in advance. If the municipality finds that it is best for the child to stay with the parents of a treatment institution and the county council lacks such an offer at its drug level, the municipality itself may enter into a placement agreement with a suitable institution. In terms of institution placement, both of adults and children, according to the Social Services Act, the county has the primary responsibility for financing the stay. Municipalities must contribute a fixed state amount. The Swedish Child Protection Act has the same planning requirements for the county of responsibility for providing care to children outside the home, which the Social Services Act has for institutions for drug abusers. The aim of the provisions is to facilitate the coordination of services targeting common users. The Social Ministry's guidelines on the implementation of the Social Services Act in 1993 called on the county councils to draw up a common plan describing how to discharge their responsibilities under the Social and Child Protection Act and discussing important coordination and cooperation issues. It was emphasised that county action should complement and reinforce municipal action. The plan shall reflect how they address the need for action for family-based addicts. It is important that our future drug abuse services facilitate smooth coordination. I'll come back to that. Today, there are several institutions offering parents with children. In addition to the State Narcotic Clinic at Hov in Land, to which the interpellant referred, it is about. 10 institutions with room for families, especially with children under school age. Several of them accept families from other counties. There is one or more services available in all health regions, as well as municipalities and counties can freely use institutions they seem appropriate. In addition, several institutions and treatment interventions have a family perspective in their activities. In addition to dealing with the problems of the drug user, attention is also focused on the situation of the family and the consequences of the problems of the drug user on the family. Some institutions also offer outpatient services to relatives. Two regional centres of expertise on drug issues have developed specific skills in the area of problems related to children and drug-using parents. As a special area of pregnant women and drug users with children up to school age, the Rogaland A Centre has specific competence for addicts with children of school age. I am pleased that we have already received a lot of evidence of experience from the centres of excellence, which provides us with a better basis for selecting the right tools. It is worrying that several municipalities have reported that there is a lack of appropriate treatment for parents and children. In December 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health set up a working group to review treatment provision for drug users during the first half of 1999, including the need to provide parents and children. In view of the important role played by the Child Welfare Service in such cases, the working group expressed uncertainty about the responsibility for such treatment provision. They should perhaps be enshrined in the Child Welfare Services Act rather than in the Social Services Act. It may be a coincidence which service drug-using parents first come into contact with. Cooperation between the most central bodies is therefore very important. A primary objective of working with families of drug addicts must remain for the family to receive an offer at the home. There is a clear need to go through the whole treatment field targeting drug users. The work of the Nesvåg Group is a good basis. The two major reforms now taking place in the health sector provide new opportunities. I see it as very important that treatment for drug users should not be a special care but be linked to a holistic health and social care system. The fixed drug reform means that all people in Norway should have their permanent doctor, including drug users. When the state takes over the hospitals, I see no good reason for the specialist care services to remain in the county. This should also be a state responsibility. However, hospitals are much more defined than drug users. Therefore, the state takeover of this care needs to be prepared a little longer. The government's work on the renewal of the public sector also requires much clearer division of responsibilities. No one is served by a law that facilitates advanced black player games, at least those that need care. We need more knowledge in this area. We have increased efforts in research and development – and we will continue to do so. It is important to continue the work already in progress. We need to get better knowledge of what measures are useful. The help we give to people who desperately need help must be good. The treatment apparatus must not cause them further defeat. There are too many treatment interruptions, and the relapse problem is worrying. Much of this work will be done by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with other departments and institutions. Responses to drug abuse and relief measures for drug users need to be across national and administrative boundaries. And, above all, there will be a need for broad cooperation between child protection, social services and health services in municipalities and at specialist level. The representative’s questions point to the need to continue to focus on the child’s situation in the treatment of drug users. I can assure you that we take this perspective into account in creating better treatment outcomes for the drug addict and his or her family. One of our biggest challenges will be that children of drug users will not become the next generation of addicts. We have to do what we can to avoid these children coming to us as adults and asking, why didn't you see me? Why didn't you intervene in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2033	The councils are committed to caring for the child's interests, and I record that beyond that there is little concrete to pick up. However, she suggests that, possibly, measures should be enshrined in the Child Protection Act. The problem here, as I see it, is that when the county council got this case as an appeal, the county council had on an independent basis responsibility for assessing the whole here too – whether action should be determined by law on child protection, and not just against the law on social services. The county council concludes by saying that the child has no right under the Child Protection Act other than that of the county government. We can then well conclude that the legal status of drug addicts and children can be measured in the county economy, and that it is the Stortinget by directing the income side of the county economy that decides at any time whether these groups should be entitled to help. I record – as I experience the situation – that these rights are very limited. I think that the Council of State should go a little more offensively to work on the plan in view of the situation of these people, who have very complex and difficult problems to deal with, and also challenge the aid very much, because it challenges a cooperation that is not always easy. It is often the case from this pulpit that this cooperation is considered to be a failure in the municipality. I understand enough that it is in the department and in this room that this problem is the biggest. There is a thing in this room and in the ministry to put structural barriers in the way of cooperation. I think this case shows that this is the case, and I wonder if the Council of State intends to address that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2042	I very much disagree with the representative that it was ‘a little concrete to pick up’. On the contrary, it was relatively much, with a reorganization that relocates responsibility and makes less responsible and thus facilitates the possibility of cooperation. Cooperation is not easy anywhere, either within the municipal apparatus, between levels of administration, whether in the ministries or in this room. It's still possible, and we're going to make it easier to do that. When it comes to the specific matter, I refer to the question itself, where it is not mentioned. I find it absolutely wrong for me to deal with the matter from the Parliament's pulpit. What's clear is that we're especially concerned with the children that the interpellation is about. We're also concerned about how they're going to deal with their family. It's a highly professionally challenging field. No one is getting it very well, but I can promise that we will make it so that what is possible, can also be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2053	It's an important topic that Karin Andersen has addressed in today's interview. Unlike the representative, Bjørnsen, I think it was a comprehensive and good response from the Council of State. In the area we are discussing today, I think the Council of State has a good strategy. The number of people with drug problems is increasing, and users of alcohol and drugs are getting younger and younger. This is a very regrettable development. We should therefore invest more resources in prevention, which must also be organised and operated differently from before. It is necessary to reach the youth with the message. Of course, we also need to take care of those who have drug problems. Of course, the best thing is to help the user become free of drugs. We often see that those who want treatment and help do not get it because of a lack of funding in municipalities, or that the treatment institution only takes in detoxified users. I hope the Council of State will help those who need treatment for their drug problems to get it. Of course, this will be of enormous importance to individuals, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. can return to work. For society this will be a very profitable investment. We can't afford not to. I therefore look forward to the action plan with which the Council of State is working and which will be presented shortly. Of course, people with drug problems have a tough everyday life. If possible, children in families with drug problems have even more difficulty. When professionals find it professionally appropriate and necessary for children and parents to be together during the treatment phase, this should be met. In such a context, neither the lack of a planning basis nor the poor economy should prevent the county from making a complaint to the county councils in order to provide the best offer for the child. If legal changes are necessary in order to safeguard the interests of children in a very difficult situation, I hope the Council of State will promote amendments as soon as possible and will further contribute to the proper treatment of parents and children by all county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2073	During the Prime Minister’s presentation in Stortinget yesterday evening, he spoke a lot about ‘safer Norway’. It is a goal that most people agree with, but that is not real for the 200 000 children and young people who suffer from problems with their parents. Their everyday life is not safe. The children live with anxiety and have bad experiences that they need to process. It is important to focus on children, especially when adults are responsible for their insecurity. The interest in improving the conditions of children has improved somewhat in recent years. A collaborative project between Blakstad Hospital and the State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, called ‘patients also have children’, is a good way to put patients’ children in focus. The experience gained around the theme of children, parenting and mental illness I think I can be transferred to the care of the drug. The Christian People's Party has faith in an overall approach of families with drug problems. However, we recognise that in some cases it may be appropriate to distinguish parents and children from children in a treatment situation. It is therefore important to build good foster homes and other relief measures to offer children the optimal solution. Alternative solutions are needed. If child protection and the medical profession seek joint treatment, it is important that there is an offer for this. Uppland Arbeiderblad was able to show on February 2nd this year that five out of 15 family places at the State Drug Clinic in Søndre Land are unused, although it is the only treatment clinic in this country that accepts drug addicts with children of school age. The need for the places is great, but no one is admitted, because a dispute about who is going to pay the bill. I challenge the Social Minister to clean this up. At the same time, a person must continue to work with a better back-up. Professionals need more competence to make decisions for the best of their children. And above all, one has to bet more on prevention and drug-free zones. That's the best way to give children a safer upbringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2084	It's a very important matter the interpellant takes up, but unlike the interpellant, I'm very pleased with the answer from the Social Minister. I am pleased with the signals that are now being given on concrete measures to reorganise and redeploy responsibility for the whole of this sector, because it is very complex. In this context, it is necessary to review the financial instrument in order to obtain the best possible and equal offer wherever one lives in the country. I understand that such a review and reorganization will take a little more time than the state's acquisition of the specialist health service, precisely because it's a complex area, which I was in. But the most important thing is that something is now done, that the Minister of Social Affairs also recognises that there is a need for clean-up in this sector, and that one now also assesses state responsibility for the drugs field. As far as rights of the child are concerned, for which the interpellant is involved, it is important to provide for a treatment scheme that ensures the best interests of the child. It is unacceptable when, on a professional basis, child protection suggests that the child should be with parents in a treatment situation, that care is nevertheless taken over by others. It's not for the child's good. Divorce between children and parents is a serious matter, which can have major consequences. It is difficult enough for the child to have parents who are drug addicts and need treatment, if they are not also to be deprived of their parents and placed in foster homes. But sometimes, of course, it's necessary to separate children and parents, because it's for the best of the child. In many of these families, despite a very difficult life situation, there is a lot of care resources left, not least a unconditional and fundamental love for the child. These resources need to be built up and care needs to be stimulated. Right cannot accept that children are separated from their parents and placed in foster homes when the child needs to be with their parents. The fact that the county authority uses the reason that they do not have the offer themselves, or do not have the finances to buy custom treatment arrangements, does not hold. This is about giving priority and offering to those who need it the most. It is the child's best that must be the most important. As I said, I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs will now present an action plan and go through this whole sector to provide the best possible supply to drug users in general, and also to ensure that there is no special care. I look forward to getting a case on this to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2098	More and more children in this country live closely on drug problems. As adults, we know how difficult it can be to associate with people who change their moods. How unbearable it must be then, how unbearable it must not be for children who meet a range of very different moods and thus very different signals and limits, depending on whether their father or mother are rushing, sobering, having abstinence, rushing or being treated. The area is taboo, and very many young people in this country are praying in the quiet, inhumane burdens, and the loyalty of parents wins for the longest time. Research shows that many people from this group have a problem with alcohol. The Workflow editor has given an impression of prioritization of the drugs field. It showed the Government's draft budget for 2001. It also showed the fact that the drug field is not mentioned in the listener’s draft for the State takeover of the specialist services. I'm glad that the social minister now signals that she has taken the Nesvåg reports out of the drawer. It was sad that they were lying for as long as they were, to review the treatment supply is a work of urgency. I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs has found out that such a review is necessary. And I'm going to challenge her to say something about the timing she sees happening. Then, from the Central Party, we have further four challenges for the Minister of Social Affairs. First of all, take seriously the signals about the poor economy of the county municipalities. Ensure more resources in the revised national budget for the measures that are currently working well before the drug field. Secondly, consider the hov in Land and other parents and children's offerings again and ensure that children's premises are strengthened. Thirdly, listen to the experiences of the Russ and Psychiatric Center in Stavanger, a center with 1,990 touch calls in 2000. Ensure that the Centre has a secure, long-term economy and that several such centres are established. And fourth, take the initiative to test drop-in places, low-threshold supplies for children who live closely on drugs and psychiatry, so that they have a place and go with their experiences and frustrations. It's one of the best prevention work we can do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2109	Children are entitled to a safe upbringing. When there are drug problems in a family, the auxiliaries may face very difficult balances that determine what the future of this child will be like. If the family fails, society is responsible for giving children the security they need. We must therefore bet on a child-restraint with a high level of competence and quality. Enabling relief measures is often very complicated, with many laws regulating it. Of course, the economy in a scheme has a bearing on paying terms, but it must not be in the best interests of the child. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is focusing on children in families with drug problems, that the quality of relief and treatment of drug problems should be strengthened, and that she will have a new review of the response system to see how the tools we have can be better used and more targeted. There may also be mental disorders behind a drug problem — double diagnoses requiring special consideration. I think interaction between the institutions is very important. And when child protection has concluded that the best thing for the child is that it should be with its parents in an institution, this needs to be strongly emphasised. The State Narcotics Clinic in Hov, Land has free capacity. It is therefore a paradox that there seems to be unmet needs. The main criteria for admission are that the applicant has a significant drug problem, has a child or is pregnant, and that local measures have been tried or considered not to be feasible. There are many sufferings and defeats behind these criteria. And when there is also a requirement for county guarantee to be provided before the deposit, you can see how difficult it is for those who have come so far with their problems. But we obviously don't know the whole thing about what's behind a rejection. Auxiliaries in a total assessment may feel that the family, and in particular the child, are well served to receive an offer at the home. But growing up in a family with drug problems can mean major difficulties of different kinds later in life. I am therefore pleased with the signals given by the Social Minister here, and I am confident that the Government will find good solutions for the children's best in the action plan that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2128	I have said that I was not impressed with the specific content. Of course, it's about the children's rights, it's not said anything that can be hung on anything other than good will, and we all have. It has been said that we should have an action plan. I'm sorry if I'm being interpreted so that I don't want this action plan, but for me, the action plan is not concrete until I see what it says. The job with the action plan I hope to go further and go well. For the sake of reorganization, I must say that I am looking forward first and foremost to it because it is necessary when we have decided, however, that other very central areas should be reorganized. To make hospitals and psychiatry state-owned, child protection and care must be followed, not because it is necessarily a very good idea to make these measures stately – it may come back to discussion – but because they are so well spent. An example of this is that when the State discussed this two months ago, it chose to reduce the government's efforts in the specialised services that the municipalities and county councils really need, and then it chose to move money into care measures that the municipalities could well fund. The same applies to the MAR measures. When methadone-assisted rehabilitation was established, Stortinget said that it should not be at the expense of drug-free measures. What has happened is that there have been three regional centres and some cooperation measures. The county council has not been paid for its expenditure on the MAR measures, except that the drug has been funded. The state has managed to build up a response with the funding of urine sampling, which is discussed whether it is part of the treatment or a control measure independent of treatment, as if the individual methadone user would finance the control measure. Giving the state responsibility doesn't solve this problem. There are completely different conditions that are needed to solve the problem. It's not crucial whether it's the county councils or the state that organizes, it's the will and the ability to do this properly, and that's the will and the ability that I just don't understand has changed in the last two months.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2137	The ability and will are hardly more concrete than what I have said before, but I can assure the inter-pellant that it will not stand on either the ability, the will or the understanding of this field. I visited a so-called double diagnosis patient a few days ago. He had lived in a very unworthy condition for a long time and had received a worthy and good offer. On his wall it hung a picture of a child. That child was placed at foster home four years old and was now relatively large. I thought that the best thing that could happen to that child, when the world is like it is, was that Dad got a decent offer, so he didn't risk meeting a heavily drunk father – where it had to be. There are many and complicated balances between drug users and their children. We're going to let the professionals do that on a case-by-case basis. As Minister of Social Affairs, it is my job to organise care. I'll do that. Former Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa has laid the foundation and let the Nesvåg group work through what they did, so that we have a good basis to move on. And we're going to do that again. It was said that we have gone down on the appropriations. Yeah, we've reorganized. We have allowed part of the money we have spent in the care of Russo to go into the municipality's free resources to enable the municipalities to carry out their statutory tasks. I think that's far better than having small projects going around the municipalities that the state pays a lot into, and that's being laid down as soon as the state withdraws. Then we get even more broken hope and broken relationships. The safety of children we clearly agree on, and where does it lie? The loyalty of a child is always with the parents, almost no matter how bad it is. For children who don't have it all right, we also have to look at the local environment. It's in the community they're going to live and live. That's where Grandma is. That's where the neighbors are. That's where the school and kindergarten are. Therefore, it is very important that we also be able to accommodate the local environment. With regard to the drug-assisted rehabilitation measures, I have explained them thoroughly in this room many times, so I refer the interpellant to the explanations given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2152	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-14.ana.ud750e2161	There is no record.
