ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e23	State Council Per-Kristian Foss will transfer 1 kgl. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e26	On behalf of the Government, I have the honour to deliver 1 kgl. proposition, About the change of St.prp. No 1 on the State budget, including the 2002 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e31	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e36	On behalf of the representative Åslaug Haga and myself, I will be allowed to make a proposal to have a broad review of the impact of the WTO agreement and negotiations on key areas of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e41	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e44	On behalf of the representative Åslaug Haga and myself, I would like to suggest that a tax-free regime be established for gifts provided through local funds to local organisations operating in a non-commercial manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e49	The representative, Inge Ryan, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e52	I would like, on behalf of myself, to make proposals to investigate the possibilities of providing out-of-court compensation for the provision of public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e70	The Co-operation Board is presenting today proposals for changes to the 2002 State budget. Here we find space for both increasing well-being and lowering taxes. It's not one – or, as some have claimed. In order to ensure the basis for welfare schemes, we need a strong and high-growth business. Lower taxes are important. Our draft budget prioritises children, education, health and care for the elderly. We will fight poverty and distress both within and outside the borders of the country. We are strengthening the efforts of road construction, public transport, non-governmental organisations and environmentally friendly energy research. At the same time, our draft budget represents a clear priority for tax relief. Facilitations are provided both for the majority of people and for the business community. The taxation of dwellings is reduced, the minimum deduction is increased, the dividend tax is abolished, the air passenger fee is removed and the alcohol charge is reduced. Those amendments to the 2002 budget shall be carried out within a responsible framework. The budget table follows the policy of action to use the yield of the Petroleum Fund. If we use more oil revenue than this guideline suggests, the potential for a fall in interest rates is reduced. Lower interest rates are good distribution policies, especially for young people in the start-up phase and others with a high debt burden. Lower interest rates are also good for business. That's a good policy for value creation. The governance of cooperation will pursue an economic policy where the main objectives are work for all, increased value creation, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. A strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives. The foundation of the welfare society is economic growth. Regardless of developments in oil prices and oil production, the value creation in mainland Norway will be much higher than the oil revenues. Economic policy must therefore give priority to promoting value creation and productivity – both in the public and private sectors. The aim of the co-operation government is that over time the growth in government budget expenditure should be lower than that of mainland Norway. It gives greater room for private business. It strengthens people's ability to survive on their own income. And that means that the public should make less decisions about the everyday life of the individual. This draft budget is a first step in such a direction. The Norwegian economy is affected by international developments. This applies in particular to the export-oriented parts of business. Uncertainty in economic developments has increased following the terrorist attacks in the United States. However, several factors contribute to the dampening of the effects of weaker international growth on the Norwegian economy. Norwegian households have a good economy, and strong growth in purchasing power is still expected next year. So that's how we distinguish ourselves from, for example. U.S.A. Furthermore, investment activity in the North Sea is expected to be slightly influenced as long as the oil price does not remain at a level below today. Growth in mainland Norway gross domestic product is now estimated at 1.6 pst. in 2002. When the last Minister of Finance presented his draft budget just a month ago, the forecasts for GDP growth were 1.9 pst. There are signs of slightly weaker labour demand in some sectors. However, the labour market in the future will continue to be characterised by labour shortages in many sectors. This makes it difficult to bring wage growth down to the level of our trading partners. In the last few years, labour costs have increased significantly more in Norway than in our competitors. Since the mid-1990s, the competitiveness of industry in Norway has steadily deteriorated. It is therefore important that spring’s income statement helps reverse this trend. It will secure the jobs. Several developments point towards a stronger two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy. The competitive economy is experiencing setbacks, while the activity of the more sheltered parts of the economy remains high. The problems have become more visible now. The decline in the international economy affects the export-oriented parts of business. This comes at the top of the fact that Norway has had a higher cost growth in recent years than the countries around us. The answer to these challenges is not to let the public ese out even more. Nor is Norway a different tax policy country. There is a need for a new policy, as the voters have asked for. The countries around us are putting the taxes down. Cooperation governance will strengthen the growth base of business by reducing taxes that slow down investment and innovation. Taxes and charges shall also be reduced for individuals and families. We don't get a warmer and better society by demanding more and more of people's incomes. The co-operation administration wants to increase freedom of choice and improve the ability of citizens to cope with their own income. State ownership is high in Norway. The government wants a smaller and at the same time a more professionally managed ownership. This will over time strengthen private business. The government will critically assess the scope and organisation of state ownership. For companies where the country is still a significant owner, the Government argues that there must be a clear distinction between the country's role as owner and that of the country's role as a sovereign. It is therefore proposed to transfer the ownership of several State companies to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. We also propose that the Storting extend the Government’s powers to change the state’s holdings in several of the companies that are managed – and those that will eventually be managed – by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, the implementation of changes in the state’s ownership interests in individual companies must be based on commercial assessments, market development assessments in general, exchange price developments and strategic relationships with individual companies. The government will, in a separate case, provide the Stortinget in the spring session with an overall presentation of ownership policy. The government follows up the Sem declaration by doubling the capital of the Environmental Fund, which is part of the Petroleum Fund. The equity portfolio of the Environment Fund is invested in companies in 22 countries, companies that have small adverse effects on the environment and that have an environmental report or an environmental management system of satisfactory quality. The Government will also work towards the deployment of the Petroleum Fund extraction mechanism in the event of a serious breach of our human rights obligations. This is now under investigation. In many areas of expenditure, the outgoing government has proposed increases that are in line with the Sem Declaration. These include childcare, increased health and patient care efforts, continued development of care for the elderly and upgrading of school buildings. These measures are continued by the Cooperation Government. But this isn't enough. The co-operation regime will strengthen efforts towards disadvantaged people within and outside the country’s borders. This is what we do, among other things. by increasing the child allowance for disability and old-age pensioners, and by excluding cash support from the measurement of social assistance. We also strengthen efforts for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug users. International aid is increasing from 0.89 p.m. of gross national income for the current year to 0,92 pst. for next year. This means that we're moving towards the goal of reaching 1 pst. of GNI. Increased uncertainty in the world around us makes it necessary to make us less vulnerable to terror. Following the terrorist action in the United States on 11 September, a number of measures have been put in place to prevent similar incidents in Norway. The Ministry of Justice is working on an overview of the overall need for civil protection resources and the necessary police preparedness measures. The government will come back with a new assessment of this need in a roll-out on Defence in spring 2002. In this context, it is proposed to strengthen the allocation to the police and to social security and preparedness of 140 million. kr. We're going to help improve the quality of school. First of all, we want to strengthen primary school by increasing the number of hours of Norwegian education by 1 hour per year. Weeks 2 to 4. class step. In addition, we withdraw the Stoltenberg government's proposal to remove the 10th grade take-off exam. The Labour Party Government would introduce a higher education scholarship scheme that made the grant entirely dependent on the weights of the grant. It would push too much risk on the students and could get unfortunate and unsocial results. The government is therefore proposing to maintain the current scheme of 30 p.m. scholarships for everyone next year. The proportion of the scholarship shall be gradually escalated and this escalation shall be made depending on the progress of the study. This will provide an additional incentive to conduct a study without compromising basic safety. The government maintains the increase in the cost norm. Therefore, there will be increased payments to students from the coming academic year. The government strengthens the efforts for road construction and public transport. We are increasing the appropriations for upgrading the T-Bahn in Oslo and for the reinforced planning of the urban railway in Bergen. In addition, we will strengthen the new nationwide school and student rebate scheme on collective transport. The scheme shall enter into force on 1 August 2002. We are proposing to increase the funding of NGOs by 100 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the previous government. This should include, inter alia: ensure that organisations are fully compensated for increased costs resulting from the VAT reform. The Government assumes that framework conditions are to be provided to enable the establishment of CO2-free gas power plants. Therefore, the Government is proposing increased efforts in this area. The co-operation administration proposes several changes to the government’s proposals for tax arrangements for 2002 in Stoltenberg. We have made clear priorities on the expenditure side of the budget. The actual underlying expenditure growth on the government budget is 1 1⁄4 pst. It is clearly lower than the growth of gross domestic product for mainland Norway. We thus create room to reduce taxes and taxes. The co-operation government’s proposal for changes to the State budget will provide a basis for higher economic growth. By using a larger proportion of the operating space in the budget for tax relief, we will also be able to contribute to lower interest rates. The government will abolish the dividend tax. Double taxation of dividends has adverse effects. In particular, capital income earned in the enterprises will be taxed more heavily than other capital income, such as: deposits. Dividends tax also means that debt financing is tax-advanced rather than equity financing. This is a violation of the so-called neutrality principle that Stortinget has previously joined in connection with, among other things. tax reform in the early 1990s. The Norwegian and international economies are increasingly becoming a knowledge-based economy. It is therefore important to facilitate the development of knowledge, competence and technology. The government emphasises that Norwegian companies should be able to compete in the increasingly sharp international competition brought about by the knowledge economy. We will therefore improve tax credit schemes for investment in research and development. The government also proposes to provide some relief in the taxation of employment options. It shall be possible to live on its own income. So we're proposing to increase the minimum deduction. About 210,000 people will receive a lower marginal tax on personal income next year. In this way, we will also help increase access to labour. It is important in a situation where the labour market is still under pressure. The outgoing government would increase the tax on owner-occupied dwellings. The co-operation administration wants to remove this tax. In this round, we will therefore reverse the Stoltenberg government's proposal to increase the equation values. In addition, the Government proposes to increase the discount on housing tax. This means that up to 40000 people will not be taxed on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings compared to the previous government proposal. The Government proposes that the air passenger fee be abolished from 1 April next year. At the same time, it is proposed to reverse the special zero rate scheme of the VAT system for aviation. The air passenger charge may have helped to reduce the profitability of airlines operating on the Norwegian market. At the same time, such a charge has hit extra hard districts where air transport is absolutely necessary. In order for the winding-up of the air passenger charge to also benefit consumers, the Competition Authority will immediately review all agreements and arrangements that may impede entry into service and healthy competition in aviation. In the Sem Declaration, the Government announced some adjustments to the VAT reform introduced from 1 July this year. The government believes it is wrong that driving training as the only educational service should be subject to VAT. It is therefore proposed to exempt driving training from VAT. At the same time, the Government proposes that services relating to the operation of social alarms should generally be exempted from VAT. The government will reduce excise duties on goods subject to border trade. The government initially proposes that the brandy fees should be reduced by 15 p.m. Reduced prices of spirits will make smuggling and home-burning less profitable, so that more of its turnover becomes legal forms. In addition, the Government proposes to reduce the fees for other beverages by 5 pst. The result of the cooperative government's amendment overall is that every Norwegian on average receives NOK 1 700 in tax and tax relief for the next year. This is more than a doubling of what the result would be with the previous government proposal. The co-operation administration presents its proposals for changes to the 2002 government budget exactly three weeks after we left the government offices. We have made important changes, but there is no doubt that in many areas we would have had more time to go further. Most importantly, however, the proposals set out a new course in economic policy, a policy in which we adhere to the policy of action on the use of oil revenues and thus provide a good basis for the fall in interest rates. It is a policy that gives greater room for individual desires and needs. And it's a policy that focuses on the growth capacity of the economy. It is only by following such a course that we can secure well-being over time. That is why we use the budgetary policy space to provide tax relief to improve the framework conditions for business and for the benefit of most people. Generations before us have made Norway a good society. The government is inviting the Stortinget to cooperate on a budget that makes Norway an even better country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-09.ana.ud2336e148	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance report on changes in the 2002 government budget be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
