ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e76	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The President is asking for a proposal from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e81	I'm proposing Magnhild Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e86	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa is proposed as a seat president. – Other suggestions are not included, and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is elected by consensus as the seat president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e98	The President will inform the representatives of the Innst. O. No 115 from the Financial Committee to Case No. 1 currently not available in printable version. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the replication of up to three replications with replies after the contributions of main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e111	Earlier in winter, the government was imposed by a majority in Stortinget, all parties except SV and the Workers' Party, that it would return to Stortinget this session with a new arrangement for the Bustadtaxation. The Government's proposal is based on the taxation system outlined in the Innst by the Financial Committee's pluralities, the Labour Party's members and the Central Party's members. S. No 143 for 1996-97 in the management of the Harlem Brundtland government's notification of busi­ness clearance and the principle of housing taxation, cf. St.meld. No 45 for 1995-96. Today, the parties that get multiples for a new taxiing system are unable to become aware of how our housing is to be taxed. It's weak in the government that it can't put forward a proposal that can create a multiple in the Storting between the parties that were a few years ago. In my view, it is not the Center Party that has changed its position since Innst. S. No 143 were adopted. The majority of the financial committee went to Innst. S. No 143 for a new taxiing system which deviated from the proposal in St.meld. No 45 at several central points. The majority of the Committee took the view that the Ministry should collect data and analyse the distribution and income effects of the Committee's draft for Bustadtaxation and tax systems and, in the next round, put forward a legislative proposal on the basis of this. The government has submitted a scheme that is not similar to the one outlined in the majority committee. The Ministry has stressed that the taxiing system should be simple and stencil-based. The starting point is the building area of the dwelling, which is to be walked by a square metre rate based on production costs. The rate is therefore based on production value, not on market value. In line with the Storting's intentions, it is considered that the tax base should not be higher than its market value. In the area of the country where the market value is low, the square meter rate is adjusted by a certain percentage. In addition, a subtraction of age and a low standard occurs. Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to remove the benefit-taxation of their own housing. The Right Party and the Advance Party have then said that they do not need a tax system and that they opposed the establishment of a new tax system at Stortinget’s handling of this issue in 1997. The Christian People's Party believes, in spite of the fact that we are opposed to preferential taxation of our own housing, that it will be important to put in place a new tax system. We assume that we want a fair and simple Bustadtaxation system, and we believe that a tax system based on insurance rates supports under this request. The Christian People's Party and the Left also went in on the previous management of Bustadtaxation in order to abolish the benefit tax on their own housing, and that the taxation of housing and leisure property should be based on a fire insurance tariff or full-value insurance rate. It will be a simple and unbureaucratic system for Bustadtaxation. Since we want to abolish the benefit tax on our own housing, a tax system based on the insurance tax will be the basis for the property tax of the dwelling, and for the municipal property tax, if it is undesirable. As long as we have property taxes in this country and the municipalities have the right to introduce a municipal property tax, we need a tax system that is fair. The system we have for today, frames randomly and unfairly. Two identical dwellings in the same area can get completely different housing taxes. The Christian People's Party believes in this that it is not necessary to develop a new complex system where all the dwellings in the country have to be re-taxed, as the Government adds. We want to use the insurance rate that the dwelling already has today. The insurance rate is simple, fair and easily understandable. Through a large deduction at the bottom of the property tax, flats of normal standard will avoid housing taxes. Other additional arguments for using insurance tax as a starting point are that such a system can replace the unfortunate system we have today, much faster than the Government's comprehensive proposal to re-approve all housing. The government proposal will not be valid until 2005. There are many new years with an unfair system. The work of getting a fair tax system is something that has been tried several times in recent years. It's not easy to agree, and it's important that we don't replace today's unfair system with a new unfair system, which the Government actually does in my view, and which is also the new proposal by the Labour Party and SV. The taxation of housing should be simple, in the sense that there should not be too many different taxes to adhere to. People should be able to feel fairly treated and not feel that taxes on housing should be a growing source of income for the country. For this reason, the Christian People's Party wants to abolish income taxes on dwellings of normal standards, in other words, that the benefit tax of its own housing should be abolished. And for our part, we want to liquidate it over a four-five-year period. In Norway, it is also most common for people to own their own dwelling. People didn't think owning their own dwelling was a tax advantage. The housing costs in this country are, in part, very high, and, therefore, a preferential tax of own housing is not well-suited to arrive at as a credible way of taxing housing. In this context, an assessment should also be made of whether to obtain tax delimitation rules for low-income pensioners with regard to property taxes on residential property. It's sad if no suggestions get more on this matter today. When a number in Stortinget ordered the government to come back to Stortinget with this matter in ours, it was because we wanted to clean up what was very unfair. Therefore, it is negative that the majority who adopted a taxiing system in the previous period are unable to arrive at a deal in this round. There are many who want to push us who are opposed to the benefit tax for our own housing, to vote subsidiaryly for a proposal that, after all, is better than today's proposal. There's going to be a bias on our part if one unfair system is going to take over another unfair system. In the Christian People's Party we believe that it is more important for us to fight to remove the benefit tax for our own housing in the next major period of time than to vote for an improved version of the Government's proposal, as the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party as a whole do. We will present proposals for cuts in the benefit tax in the course of the next year's government budget, and we hope that this will get more in the Stortinge in the next period. I want to put forward proposal No. 5, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. In addition, the Christian People's Party will support subsidiaryly, if our proposal falls, as it appears, proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Christian People's Party will also support proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. It's a good idea of a social housing construction that we're fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e157	The representative of the elected City of Reply Haugland has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e162	‘Nearly any country has as low a tax on housing and property as Norway’, writes Dagens Næringsliv on 27 March this year. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party will reduce today's housing tax by SEK 1.5 billion, so the proposal almost halves the income tax. But it will not be part of the Christian People's Party. What we are discussing today is a proposal for a new tax system. Today's system is too random and unfair and over-ripe for replacement. It is Christian People's Party that agrees, because in the setting they write that they are concerned about the different practices of the valuation of dwellings, and that it would be appropriate with as much equal guidelines as possible for valuation across the country. The Labour Party fully agrees. That is why we have also promoted a completely new tax system that ensures this. It will not support the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party will abolish the income tax on all dwellings over a period of time. The working party will have very low housing taxes on ordinary dwellings, but believes that very large dwellings should pay. The Christian People's Party will have a tax system under which the insurance rate is applied. This proposal does not receive a majority today, as it is supported only by the Christian People's Party and the Left. It would then be reasonable for the Christian People's Party to subsidize the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV, which is in favour of halving the income tax on dwellings, which means that almost 60 pst. of the dwellings in Norway today do not pay housing tax. Then I have to ask, is this to take responsibility for the many housing owners who would have been taxed, so that they would have removed the injustice that is today? Or is it that the Christian People's Party does not really want to adopt such a tax relief and halving of the income tax to which it is now added?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e169	The representative Signe Eye began his line of business, which said we had low taxes on housing in Norway compared to other countries. I think it's stupid to compare the housing tax in Norway with other countries, because we know that families in Norway have their own homes to a far greater extent than in many other countries. We also know that the cost of getting our own housing, at least in large parts of Norway, is very high, and putting extra taxes on it is something we want to fight against. The question was whether we should subsidize something, which was a little better than today's system. We've actually discussed that. But, as I said in my post, we didn't consider it a good idea to support something that's only half good, because then we actually supported a new system, which one at the next time could build to add new taxes to the same housing. Therefore, we would rather subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right, the Left and the Progress Party, which takes off the worst peaks when it comes to injustice in relation to the system we have today. And then we hope to get a multiple in Stortinget in the next period that goes with us to get rid of the whole benefit of our own housing, which is our goal. We actually mean that supporting subsidiary things that are half good is worse, because then we adopt a system that can lead to even greater taxation on those who own their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e176	The representative of Selected Response City Haugland says that today's system is random and unfair, and that's true. That's why it's necessary to get a tax base that's fairer and less random than the system we have today. The Christian People's Party's answer to this is something called insurance rate. This concept is poorly defined in the Christian People's Party's own comments. But let me just allow me to ask a couple of questions: shall it mean that you should have compulsory insurance, that any owner of the dwelling be forced to have an insurance? If the owner of the dwelling wants to gamble on the fact that his house does not burn, the owner of the dwelling can today freely choose not to insure it, and in that case there is no insurance fee. If the owner of the dwelling wishes to have a lower insurance rate than the actual value of the dwelling, does that mean that the owner of the dwelling together with his insurance company should also not have that possibility? Or does that mean that the same dwelling, from landing to landing, will have different insurance rates, depending on how much it will cost to return a similar dwelling after full-value insurance? It is clear that it is much cheaper to return a home of similar quality anywhere in the country than it is. is in Oslo west. So that means that the insurance rate that the term is a pretty neat knit. If you are going to base an insurance tax on a new tax system, will it not be that you will initially maintain the same differences and injustices that the Christian People's Party is committed to removing? Does this mean that, in extending this – had it been understood that this proposal was given a majority – all the owners of the country would be required to have compulsory insurance and a compulsory insurance tax, probably fixed by a public authority, because of course the fare should not be entirely up to the owner of the dwelling to defend? Does not the Christian People's Party see that what they are actually proposing is a system that is not operational? It would have been at least as bureaucratic and, of course, almost as unfair as today's system. That was my questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e183	The answer to Øystein Djupedal is: No, I don't really think of it as difficult. If you read the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Left, you will find some information about insurance rates. And if there are some owners who don't have insurance fees on their homes, they're very few. We may have to impose such a rate on them as the basis of a tax system. But I think there would be very few houses that didn't have insurance rates, because most people who invest in housing, are concerned that if the housing burns down, one has to have the means to rebuild it again. I don't think it's any bigger problem to say that every dwelling should have an insurance rate, than to say that one should now start to re-tax the houses again, as the scheme from the Government, which SV supports, is. The difference there is minimal, as I evaluate it. The biggest difference is that most of the work is already done when it comes to our proposal, because most of the housing in Norway today has an insurance rate. What's also in our notes is that when it concerns home insurance, it should cover the cost of building the house in the same standard as it was, if it might burn down or be otherwise damaged, and that's why it's a good basis. Most people then want to take insurance from their homes so that they can build them up if anything happens. And if you see that there's a big deviation, you can ask for a new rate, which shows the real value of the houses. We've now asked the government to review this proposal, and then we'll see. If this proposal had been adopted, we would have been better prepared than what we put on the table today. This is the proposal from us, and of course it has to be resolved, as the Government has for a long time now distributed the proposal that we have today to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e190	I have two questions for the representative, Mr Haugland, who may also be important for the future consideration of this matter. One is what is on page 23 of the setting. There, the Christian People's Party and the Left write that they "want to abolish income taxes on housing of normal standard". I wonder if it's possible to get a definition of what it means, whether it means that you want to liquidate all income taxes, or whether you want, as it says here, to liquidate income taxes on housing of normal standard. Secondly, it is also of interest to be explained not only about the tax system, which we have to deal with today, but also about the level of future taxation. After all, according to the government's proposal, the three tax types are distributed by DKK 2.8 billion on municipal property tax, DKK 1.66 billion on income tax, and DKK 1.47 billion on property tax. Two of the three tax types go in the Christian People's Party, like the Center Party, to maintain, without saying anything in the attitude about the level of the deduction and so on in relation to the insurance rate. It might be interesting to explain what kind of level the Christian People's Party is thinking of having on the future housing tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e199	In the case of the first comment to which Mr Enoxsen referred on page 23, the representative had found the answer as to whether he had read the whole comment, because it says that we «want to abolish income taxes on dwellings of normal standard, in other words, that the tax on the benefits of owner-occupied dwellings should be abolished over a period of 4-5 years». These dwellings will still receive property taxes, but we want to take away the full benefit of our own housing. That's approx. $2.50 billion in income, and we've said that we want to remove during the next majorization period. I guess it's going to be a four-year period we're talking about. Otherwise, when it comes to the proposal that we put forward with the Left, there are some things that we want to work out. As we also say in the proposal, 'we are asking the Government to propose a new system', and then we need to address what is going on at the bottom. We're thinking of a relatively high bottom subtraction. Last time we proposed a base deduction of 1 million. kr, and what it's going to be next, we haven't decided for. But the reason why we don't make a concrete sum is that we want the government to keep working on this, and then we get to decide for a concrete sum. As I said, approx. One million. kr we suggested last, and then I'm going to think that we have to raise that sum a good bit. So we haven't decided how much. But some of this, and what goes on at the Fire and Full Value Insurance Tariff, will then be able to be dealt with in the proposal that the Government would have put forward in the next round if our proposal had received multiple numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e211	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e215	The currently treated proposition is not about the principles of housing taxation, benefits tax or other, but about the principle of a tax system to provide the basis for calculating the value of a dwelling. The taxation system has been mature for a long time, over-mature can be said, for a change, and it is consistent when describing today's system as random and unfair. In Saturday’s newspaper, the exemplified VG shows how today’s tax system is compared to the house tax that is likened to it. A one-room apartment on Blindern of 23 m2 at a price of 650 000 SEK and with an equation rate of 150 000 SEK gets a housing tax of 682 SEK, while an apartment on Frogner of 116 m2 with a market price of 3 million. kr, but with an Equation Tariff of SEK 50000, has zero in housing tax. The representative also expressed dissatisfaction at the unfairness of today's tax system and, in an interview with Today's Business, showed how a dwelling on Nordstrand with a market value of 8 million. kr may have an equation value of 286 000 kr, while an exclusive dwelling in Turkey with a market value of 250000 has an equation value of 314 000 kr. In this way, today's taxation system relies on coincidences and injustices in the sense that similar dwellings, even in the same municipality and in the same street, can have completely different equation values and thus different taxation. This injustice is further enhanced in situations where housing taxes are increasing, as was done in the current budget, as was done during the Bondevik government, and as was done each year during the Right Government of the 1980s. The result is that a one-room apartment on Blinder gets increased tax, while the million apartment on Frogner still doesn't pay taxes. We all have a responsibility to do something about this unfairness. That is also the background to the Government's proposal for a new tax system. The proposal the Government promoted, would mean that 80 pst. the housing owners would receive reduced or unchanged tax. Dwellings below 85 m2 would completely drop taxes, as would a dwelling of 100 m2 with an average age. If the dwelling is of low standard or old age, according to the Government's proposal, it would significantly reduce the value of the equation. The government's proposal involves a billion dollars in tax relief in the conversion process. The government's proposal also means a tightening of the tax for those with large dwellings, but a tax haven for the vast majority. Thus, 80 pst. received the same or a lesser tax in relation to the current situation. In order not to cause difficulties for groups of particularly low incomes, special protective measures were put in place, so that everyone would be able to continue to live in their homes. The Government's proposal is based on the compromise adopted in 1997, where the Central Party and the Workers' Party agreed on the principles of a new tax system. The principles of this compromise have continued with some modifications: The principle that those living in normal-standard dwellings should be tax-free has been continued. The principle of deduction for age is respected, although somewhat moderate. The principle that you do not have to enter the dwelling to determine the size of the dwelling is ensured by adding to the Norwegian Housing Standard and stating that this should be based on self-declaration. As has been demonstrated by the media, the Workers' Party has not been impressed by the Government's proposals. However, we feel a strong responsibility to do something about the unfair system that is today. We have therefore endeavoured to meet the views that have been expressed in the ground by the parties with which we have a great deal in common when it comes to fair housing policy. These principles are then also maintained in the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV. As we see it, this proposal that is now being promoted is a response both to the demands of the Central Party and the SV, even though they have been contradictory on some points. Unfortunately, we – the three parties – have not managed to come up with an agreed proposal. However, the Labour Party is promoting a proposal together with the Socialist Left which, hopefully, may be such that one or more centre parties – all of which have expressed the need for a new and fairer tax system – will vote in a subsidiary way for this. SV and the Workers' Party agree to ask the Government to submit a state funding escalation plan for the construction of cheap rentals, student housing and low-income housing for first-time start-ups in the State budget for 2002. Furthermore, we agree on proposals for a new tax system that implies 60 pst. by the owners of the dwellings, the income tax on the owner-occupancy of the dwelling will be completely abolished, a further 22 pst. will be reduced or equal to housing tax. In relation to today, there is a tax bill of SEK 1.5 billion, i.e. $30 billion more than the Government's proposal. New all-year dwellings below 110 m2 of living space in the normal zone are not subject to any housing tax at all. In subtraction zone 1, new dwellings drop below 132 m2 of housing tax, while this limit runs at 166 m2 in deduction zone 2. Compared to the Government's proposal, dwellings in the normal zone above 223 m2 of living space will receive increased taxes. Smaller dwellings than it will get reduced or equal to tax. The Labour Party feels that we have gone far in trying to meet the demands and goals that have been raised both from the Socialist Left Party, from the Central Party and also from the Christian People's Party in terms of the profile of the taxation system. We still hope, until voting here in the Chamber, that one will be able to see the quality of the proposal that is now being put forward, and make a strong call, as I said, to look favourably at the proposal, which is a strong response to the requirements that have been raised. I take up the suggestions, which are presented in the setting, from the Working Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e253	The representative Britt Hildeng has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e258	The representative Hildeng gave a description of the situation that I believe most people who are here in the hall can stand behind. She gave several examples of unfortunate and unfair situations as the system works today. That was also the reason why a majority in the Stortinget ordered the government to come back with this matter already in spring, so that one could clean up the most unfortunate rashes. The representative also said that the proposal put forward by the Government is based on the compromise reached by the Central Party and the Labour Party in 1997, and that the representative is part of the points that are likely to be negotiated today and that were also negotiated in 1997. But one point the representative forgot to mention and that was the size of the dwelling – when the housing tax was to be applied. As I understand it, it's one of the main anchor points from the Center Party's side that the housing tax goes too low when it applies to the square meters of the dwelling. I feel here that the Labour Party has actually not shown good political craftsmanship. For this question it has to be: does the Labour Party really want changes to take place here, or will they only present something that does not get multiples, in order for the housing tax to be as it is? If there was a desire to negotiate, the Government should have put forward a proposal that was closer to the 1997 decision. When the representative says that they have felt a strong responsibility and have worked to reach a compromise, it's about, as it says in the media, 10 m2 or 5 m2 or whatever it might be. I actually didn't think it shows the willingness to reach a compromise at all. Why hasn't the Labour Party or the Government submitted a proposal that they knew could get multiples? For they had, in total, a decision to take on the basis of the 1997 treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e263	I must first say that it is a strange discharge I experience from the Christian People's Party. First, they are involved in instructing the Government to present a proposal, and then you do not contribute to finding something that could be a solution. The Christian People's Party should take the responsibility of also requiring the Government to present a proposal with a very short deadline. And it is clear that the proposal that was put forward is based on the compromise we reached in 1997. But in that compromise and in that proposition, it is also very clear that you had to come back to calculations and assessments in relation to how this would turn out. This is why, among other things: with regard to the measurement of the living area, added to the basic Norwegian standard, which is a known concept, where it was demonstrated that the measurement method contained in the original Stortinget proposal was difficult to implement. Furthermore, the representative says that she is surprised that there is such a difference between the Center Party and the Workers' Party. But if one uses the Working Party's measurement method, which is a net living area, then 110 m2 is not very far from an external measure of 150 m2. One has to look at the sizes in context, and look at the methods in context, then a few more pictures will be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e270	They are the ones who claim that the Workers' Party is not to be trusted in terms of housing taxes. That is not true, because at any time the Workers' Party is responsible or has influence over the housing tax, they run from the previously concluded contracts and increase the housing tax. If the representative Britt Hildeng and the Workers' Party really think that the house tax is so unfair, then of course you should have voted in favour of the Right's proposal here today to wind up the entire benefit tax on living in own homes, a tax that is charged to people regardless of whether they have borrowed the house far above the pipe. But what is the Workers' Party's merit list here? In 1997, the Workers' Party agreed with the Centerpartie that housing under 150 m2 should be exempt from house tax. The government then submitted a proposal that there were dwellings of less than 85 m2 to be exempted. They have then, within four years, run from the agreement they had entered into, and have now gone up to 110 m2. In 1997, the Labour Party also said that there should be no increase in the tariff base because equal housing was treated differently. What has the Labour Party done in the last two years? They have increased the house tax by 25 p.m., although they said they would not increase this house tax because it was so unfair. That's why there are crocodile tears when the Workers' Party here now says that today's housing tax is so unfair. Why is today's housing tax so unfair? Well, that's because the Workers' Party has wanted it, and they've deliberately implemented a policy that has increased the tax on people most through housing. And when we proposed a safety valve in February, that there should be a fair treatment, then we voted against it. What the Workers' Party could have done was to promote the agreement it had with the Center Party in 1997, that all dwellings under 150 m2 should be exempted, and that would have been achieved. The working party will not get this matter through in Stortinget. So my question to the representative Hildeng is: why should we trust the Workers' Party this time in the house tax? Isn't the Workers' Party also going to run away from its promises as the party made in 1997, and as the party has done every year by increasing the housing tax for the most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e281	The representative Brende forgets his own and Right history in terms of increasing the tax on housing. When the Right had government power in the 1980s, the house tax was increased every year. In a tax settlement, they went with the Christian People's Party to increase housing tax. So the right should settle in your own house. What the Labour Party says is that when this increase becomes so unfair, it is because the taxation system is so unfair. You have to do something about it. And that's what we've been trying to do with the proposal that was discussed in Gro Harlem Brundtland's reign, which has now been promoted by this government. The working party is consistent in trying to achieve a fair tax system but has not been given a majority in favour of it. The right refers to the constantity of only one aspect of its housing tax policy. In Oslo they held the tab high when it came to liquidating the property tax. It would give the individual amazing freedoms and amazing income opportunities. When the property tax was abolished, the people who lived on Grünerløkka got NOK 50 a year in tax bills, those who lived on Lambertseter got NOK 127, and those who lived in Oslo West got NOK 5000. [[The President clubs.]] But those who have really lost this are the Municipality of Oslo and its inhabitants, who now see how the capital is decaying, and how social clients are thrown into the street because one turns up the rentals in the municipal housing estates. [[President clubs]] That's the other side of Høre's housing tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e290	The President will ask that the speaking time be kept in place even in the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e293	To the extent that it might be interesting to ask questions in relation to the treatment of the housing tax base. Like the representative Britt Hildeng, I too think it is a pity that we per. Today, it has not been possible to agree on a fair scheme that provides predictability for most people. It surprises me that the Labour Party, both from the Government and from the Committee, today argues as strongly against a scheme that was argued as strongly for as short a period as four years ago. My question, however, relates to a matter which was discussed quite carefully in the 1997 vote, where the Committee said: ‘Quadratmeter price is set at a proportion of the cost of production.’ Furthermore,... all tariffs may be adjusted at regular intervals in relation to the construction cost index. The majority underlines ’ – in 1997 – ‘that, if adjustments are made to the tariff base of the Storting, the base deductions in krona shall be automatically adjusted accordingly’. In the proposition, the government spends a lot of time talking about how to adjust the square meter rate. It shall be carried out automatically each year and shall be reported to the Stortinget so that the Storting knows what will be used for the housing tax. So we've described in detail the need to increase the square meter rate, but we haven't mentioned the adjustment of the bottom subtraction in one word. If this means what I have reason to believe that it means, the government's proposal will mean that over time more and more householders will have to pay taxes. Taking into account the 1990 construction cost index and drawing it out, the proposal, if interpreted literally, will result in housing of 75 m2 already in 1994 being subject to housing tax. Can the representative Hildeng clarify the views of the Workers' Party in relation to these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e311	I agree with the representative, Odd Roger Enoksen. I think that in many ways we have a parallel view of the profile of housing policy. It is also clearly expressed in the view that it is a wish, as in the 1997 tax compromise, that ordinary dwellings should not be taxed on income. It was a common desire, and that is what underlies the Government's proposal. What ‘ordinary housing’ is is substantially upgraded in the proposal that is now in place from the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left Party. It is correct that up-adjustments to production costs will be made annually on the basis of an assessment. The same is true in relation to the deduction; it shall be part of the budgetary procedure each year. In this way, a political perspective is put on this, and once the principles and objectives of the profile of the housing tax have been laid down, it will just ensure that for a dwelling of standard standard, income tax continues to be withheld. On the other hand, the one starting point is that, in particular, the homes and leisure homes that are often used for the purpose of speculation and investment will probably experience a stronger tax than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e318	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e321	It was good that the line change didn't continue, because then the representative had ended up on the ground. So what she said in her last post was that the plan of the Workers' Party is that the bottom line in the future will vary depending on whether the dwelling is a speculative object or one. That's an interesting way – that means that we get an individual determination of the bottom subtraction in the future. I must say that in the Workers' Party-SV-Centre Alliance in this matter, at least the Centre Party has not changed its view. What has happened here is that the tactic of the Workers' Party from the 1997 review has now been revealed in many ways. The time when that then-presenting representative Lundteg dictated a tax system for which the Workers' Party chose to vote, even if they were actually opposed. In the election between voting for or voting for elections, you chose to vote in favour, and they gave the informal reason, even though it was not so clear from the pulpit that you wanted to continue working with the system in government anyway, and – understandably – you should be able to change this. Now you've done that, and you've met a Center Party that says the same thing as the last one. At least that's predictable. You could say what you want about the so-called Lundteigen taxing model -- it's weird, and maybe it's not as easy to put into practice, but it's at least the same as you meet now. The Labour Party has chosen to meet it with its traditional arrogance: we know best, vote on our proposal. I'm not quite sure if it's a tactic that I'll recommend as a continuous policy guideline, but I'm recording that the Workers' Party is increasingly choosing things to run like this, stand alone and be discouraged. It is a kind of defaitism that characterizes the Workers' Party for the time being, which is often present when it comes to the end. I'm taking the proposals no. 3 and 4 now. For its part, the right has no need to address the debate on taxiing systems. You can weigh and say which is least bad of the different systems that are. What's going on is that everyone creates a lot of injustices and some difficult borderways, not to say unexplainable borderways. You can discuss, for example: How clever it is to introduce people with thick walls in their houses, rather than people who may not have had the opportunity to buy that kind of house. There are also injustices in relation to older houses that are very well maintained before the tax system is implemented, and people with new houses that do not have the same standard, just to mention examples – perhaps not the worst for that matter, but examples that it is difficult to find a fair system. The right is of the opinion that the tax on housing is a type of tax that Norway can handle in addition. The rich oil Norway does not depend on a tax income of just under 2 billion kroner. We're not dependent on this form of tax for social distribution. This is a tax that everyone has to pay, it is not linked to the ability to tax, but to the relatively random size of the dwelling. And I'm saying randomly, because it's not always that you're sitting with a dwelling as a result of a conscious choice you've made. You may have inherited, you may have acquired, families may have been dissolved, etc., and you may be sitting with a larger dwelling than you strictly need. But then I want to add that it's actually not like that, at least I think, that the majority of the Norwegian people view the dwelling as a sober investment object -- a number of shares you have or don't have, have one day, sells the next day. Clearly, on the basis of such a reasoning, it is reasonable to assume that an expected interest income from the dwelling, as an alternative to having an item on the stock exchange, should also be taxed. But it's now so that one can live a stake in addition to – one has to have a dwelling. It's a choice of value, and we've made that choice and we don't want to have taxes on the dwelling in the future. To the proposals: We have made a proposal asking the Government to instruct the Equation Office to assume that complaints at today's Equation Tariffs are to be accompanied by a maximum tariff of 30 pst. by the technical value of the house or 30 pst. by the observable market price if the current Equation Tariff exceeds this – this taking into account that the current tariff system remains after the adjustment to be read. Then at least it eliminates the worst crops. Brief explanation of vote also on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV, where the Government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan with state funding for the construction of cheap rental properties, etc. It's a proposal I really think would be unnecessary, because it actually has the government promised to do. But when even the government party will oblige its own government to do this, we will not vote against it. It has been dealt with in previous debates, and I am heartbroken about this, even though we may disagree on the instruments. So I'd like to take part in ordering the government to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e340	Per-Kristian Foss has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e345	The representative, Mr Brende, said in a reply earlier today that the Workers' Party could have promoted the proposal agreed with the Central Party in 1997, then it would have been adopted. This is an interesting statement because, unlike in 1997, the Labour Party and the Central Party do not have a majority in this Chamber alone. My question to Per-Kristian Foss is: why will the Right not contribute to a majority of a tax bill for which a majority could be obtained for once? That proposal was promoted in the position and could therefore have given a tax bill of NOK 3.7 billion, which would mean that nine out of ten owners of housing would have dropped house taxes. So then it's not like the Right wants to remove the entire housing tax. The right does not want to remove the voluntary municipal property tax, and the right will also need a tax system in relation to municipal property tax in line with the other batches that want to keep it. Thus, one could have obtained a good tax base, which would have exempted nine out of ten dwellings from both property taxes, property taxes and income taxes. So when, for once, the Right has the opportunity to get a pass on a tax bill, you just fold away and choose to stand firm on your principles, instead of having a majority in this room. My question will then be, why do you choose to sit on the side bar this time as well? Is it because the tax proposals are mostly for internal use in your own programme? Or do you want to get the tax proposals implemented when you promote them? So another question: what does Right want to do with interest rebates and rental income on housing when you are going to liquidate income tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e352	The opinion of the representative, Børge Burnde, that there would have been better opportunities if the Workers' Party had promoted the compromise that was agreed with the Centre Party, was probably based on the assumption that SV would follow the load here as otherwise, and that it would create a majority. I have not seen anything that would indicate that this is not the case. Then I must say that it is a little strange to suggest to the Right to save the Lundtigen model. We've never been close to believing that it was a reasonable model. Why in the world would we have to set up a very difficult system that would cost between 300 and 400 million? to establish, to tax something that we have not intended to tax? Why in the world would we do that? The stroke of the house tax will be at the elections. People have the choice between two views on the housing tax. Someone's for, others are brave. People will then have a reasonably clear choice, and the result will be reflected in the main hall. I can't believe there's any reasonable reason why we're now going to create some confusion about what we actually want, by voting for a system we'd wind up as soon as we got close to being able to get a majority for it. Now it is well that far into the Center Party there is strong resistance to the choice of value that is involved in taxing homes and homes. And I have to say that the Center Party really argues quite well in the attitude that this is a socially unfair tax, which, in their opinion, should only hit about 9 pst. by the owners of the dwellings. It'll show you if it's going to be the result in the long term. The experience is that this type of taxiing system comes in with some kind of introduction discount, so that it gradually tightens up. No, here's a choice of value, and here the Center Party should be as clear as you actually are in some other cases, but in this context with the opposite sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e363	Like the representative Foss, I'm going to start with the Workers' Party. It was suggested at the end of the last line again that there is something cooky in the process with an introduction discount that is to be withdrawn later. It's a proverb that says that «the thief believes every man steals», and it's possible that that's what's the starting point for the representative Foss to suspect people at all times of having motives other than what they put on the table. The same technique was used in replicating after the representative Hildeng's posts, where doubts were raised as to whether the bottom subtraction should be there. If the representative Foss reads the adjustment, it is clear that it is a prerequisite that the discount should be set in such a way that dwellings of up to 110 m2 should not be taxed. It is clear in the documents. I record that the representative Foss is betting that many voters may not read the documents in their entirety, and that he is trying in his usual way to spread misunderstandings about what is actually proposed. When I say in its usual way, it is because another right-wing representative in the P4 Friday afternoon suggested fantastic interpretations of what is now being proposed. It was said that a taxiing system should be set up to enable the authorities to count the number of bathrooms they have and to find out whether they are tiled. It was the representative Burnde who expressed it. It is becoming a rather familiar exercise that the right in any context needs to present the proposals that are being presented as something quite different from what is actually being proposed. For example, it's suggested that this is a square meter discussion. But that's not it. Anyone who reads the setting will notice that the Center Party has proposed a completely different system from the one proposed by the Working Party and SV. My question is: is the Right a little bit afraid that we are actually going to adopt a system that removes an injustice that the Right has cut big on so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e374	We are not afraid of anything in this debate, I must say. I look forward with great boldness to the Workers' Party running an election campaign on their housing tax and on their tax system. I meet on any given occasion and defend our position. I also think that people actually recognize the Workers' Party when you're talking about setting limits. In the early 1990s, some of the same was experienced in connection with the so-called top tax, which would apply only to ordinary and higher incomes. The result has been that under-regulation of the peak tax entry point has gradually narrowed this tax to well and well half of full-time employees. There is once again an example of the dramatic change in the nature of the tax in terms of underregulation in this type of border. I suspect the Labour Party would do the same in this case too, because of course you want to get the most back in this tax area as well. They argue that this is a tax to be paid for distribution purposes, and then, of course, many have to be involved. That is why I fully agree that a very reasonable question to ask to the Workers' Party, as it was put in the previous line change, is: How do you want to regulate this bottom subtraction? And the answer I got was that it would depend on how you used the dwelling, that is, whether it was a speculation object. That's why I could imagine asking – but it's hard in a line change – what the Workers' Party means by that. These are the people who have brought out this ambiguity, who have now introduced a reason not to regulate the bottom of a given type of dwelling. Then it had to be according to a very individual judgement, and I can hardly understand how it can be implemented without going to detailed regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e385	In general, the right is concerned with what is called extraordinary taxes and taxes, and this is a so-called extraordinary tax, by being significantly lower than in almost all comparable countries. This means that there has been a desire and would have been developed that taxes on housing should be low in Norway. It is, in fact, a majority of the Storting that has wanted over time, while in almost all other comparable countries there is a significantly heavier tax on housing and property. In the United States, for example, is up to four times as hard taxation as in Norway. That means that the strange thing here is actually the opposite, but I notice that it's not good enough for the Right either. What you want is to remove a form of taxation that we have had in Norway since 1882, when we abolished the tax on food taxes. Since then, there have actually been taxes on housing in Norway. But it is also true that this system, which has evolved over time, has been very unfair. The system behind the SV and the Workers' Party would mean that the large majority of Norwegian housing owners would not pay house taxes, and that is also wanted by SV. If you look at page 72 in the setting, you'll see that it's actually as much as 71 pst. which would have had a reduction in the housing tax, perhaps no tax at all. Then there would be someone who wouldn't get any change, and a few would get an increase. But if you look at who got an increase, an increase in tax, there would be household income over 1 million. kr. The others would have been relieved or no change. That means that the housing tax as we now define it would be a social equalizing tax, but I understand that the right is not concerned with what is social and what is equalizing. In fact, more taxes on housing in the structure that SV and the Workers' Party – the Centre party was unfortunately not at the end – have been negotiated, had been a proper social grip, by the fact that the largest dwellings had to pay something more, while the large size of Norwegian housing owners had completely escaped taxation. I understand that this is a strange idea for the Right, but also during the Right Government period, it was such that we wanted to tax housing – we have had that in Norway since 1882.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e392	A lot needs to be heard, and we have to take note of it with interest when SV speaks warmly for EU harmonisation and uses the United States as an example in fiscal policy. I was in a debate here the other day with another SV representative, Mr. Langeland, who just attacked what he called the US's very unsocial tax system and even more unsocial tax relief. I recognise the following fact: Norway is not a high-tax country in this area, even if a person should add up both property taxes, municipal property taxes and the benefit tax of own-occupancy housing – I fully agree with that, but that is how I want it. I do not want Norway to be a high-tax country in all areas. It's a good Norwegian tradition that we put a lot of emphasis on the dwelling. 80 pst. in this country are self-owners. There's a number that's increased gradually over the years, and that SV has been resistors all over the way. I have been a follower of it, and I am pleased that so many today are self-owners. It also distinguishes us from most other countries. There might be a context here, but in any case, it's a development I see very positively, that not also houses and homes should be a treasure item. When you read statistics and who is hit by a tariff system that keeps most dwellings out of it, it may be worth remembering that the benefit tax is applied to an independent income. Not always does the size of the dwelling necessarily represent the income you currently have. For example, this may be the case. be such that it represents the income you once had, or the income your parents or the one you must have inherited from, had, and you are sitting with a large dwelling that is perhaps more a costly inheritance project than necessarily something you see rationally. So that type of tax does not actually hit the way SV often speaks for, namely that you have to be taxed according to your ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e401	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e404	I have registered that both Signe Øye, Britt Hildeng and Dag Terje Andersen from the Workers' Party, Øystein Djupedal from SV and Valgerd Svarstad Haugland from the Christian People's Party have been at the interlocutory here and expressed concern at the unfair outcome of the respective tariff systems. They clearly differ in the context of income tax systems. I allow myself to come with a little clarification. Both parties are entitled. No matter how you create a tariff system, it will frame unfair, simple and straightforward, because it has a system in which you have to pay income taxes for an income that does not exist is unfair. The Progress Party was moving towards the establishment of a new tariff system during the deliberation of this issue in 1997. Today, as in 1997, the Progress Party wants to remove the so-called ‘advantage tax’ of living in owner-occupied dwellings and property taxes. We have also proposed this in the annual reviews of the State budget – unfortunately without having a majority in favour of it. Since it is precisely for these two types of taxation that the Government proposes to apply the new tariff system, the Progress Party will vote against this proposal. The reason for this is simply that, with the policy of the Progress Party, there is no need for a tariff system, because it will not be any benefit tax on housing or property tax. The Progress Party believes that the tax on own-dwelling benefits is a heavy tax on a theoretical income that none of the house owners have seen and, most likely, will never see. The vast majority of people who invest in housing, either by buying a dwelling or by building a dwelling, do so to get a roof over their heads. Only a few do so to invest and get a return on the investment. In my view, when a family makes an investment to build a basis around the family and private life, it is unreasonable to compare housing investment with ordinary investment in other areas. Investing in a dwelling is a particular class, and it is initially not intended to yield, and for ordinary owners of dwellings, this investment does not generate any income or benefit in the form of income. Unfortunately, the housing has become a more attractive tax item. One is that you have to pay income taxes for something you do not have income from. The second is that you have to pay a property tax on the dwelling, a dwelling that has thus been paid considerable sums for having built or purchased, both in the form of VAT, document fees and other excise duties. In addition, sky-high fees and charges are paid to municipal agencies. As if this were not enough, the municipal property tax comes in addition, as the Progress Party, as the only party in the Stortinget, has voted against and wants to remove. Then, of course, all of the thousands of dollars paid in interest on loans and for the maintenance of the dwelling. Therefore, a dwelling is initially a large – perhaps the largest – expense a family has. And so it's especially unreasonable to put income on something that's really nothing but a year-long expense. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party stand on this pulpit and cry crocodile tears at the fact that today's tax system is going to be crooked, and, as I understand it, is obviously most concerned with ordinary people's taxes. But how will the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party explain that, since 1997 – in the period I have been sitting on the Stortinget – they have proposed and voted in favour of significant increases in the housing tax, just for ordinary people who are currently walking around and giving the impression that they are now suddenly beginning to care about? Frankly, it is not for believers. Had they thought – and not least wanted – a change for the better, they would have voted in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to remove this unfair regime. But I do not think they think so, and I therefore believe that they will not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e417	I will be the first to regret that it has not been possible to reach an agreement on a new housing tax system. House owners must now continue to live on with an arbitrary and unfair system that is crippling, and where the homes of the people – contrary to what a large majority in the United Kingdom voted for in 1997 – continue to be taxed. The Labour Party and the Centre were then a majority who assumed that nine out of ten owners of housing would be taxed. No dwellings with a calculated area of less than 150 m2 were to be taxed. Older dwellings, which require both more maintenance and which consistently have higher energy consumption, would be taxed significantly less than new dwellings. It also agreed on a transparent system where it would be unnecessary to go into the homes of people to calculate the area, and where a calculated external area was used as a basis for taxation. The same tax system was also to be applied to all three tax types, i.e. income taxes, property taxes and municipal property taxes. The agreement would therefore involve a significant tax burden. Today, nine out of ten owner-occupiers pay house taxes. The 1997 agreement would mean that one in ten would pay house taxes, and all ordinary dwellings would drop taxes. It is therefore with disappointment that I have to record that the Government – under this agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre – is making a proposal that means that six out of ten still have to pay taxes, with a total tax bill of NOK 1 billion, i.e. NOK 2.7 billion less than that underlying the 1997 agreement. Despite this and despite the fact that the Government both strongly argues against what it was for in 1997, and on the central points also go away from the 1997 conciliation, the Central Party saw it as so important for people most to get a better and fairer system than today that we chose to enter into talks with the Labour Party with a view to getting the best possible solution. Unfortunately, we have not managed to arrive at a unified result. The right goes to the choice of tax havens. It is therefore mildly surprising that the Right does not use the opportunity for once to obtain a majority for one of its tax bills, to obtain a majority in order to provide the majority of the majority of taxpayers with a total of NOK 3.7 billion, a proposal that will also legislate that no one with housing under 150 m2 will pay taxes – it is stated in the legal text and is therefore no introduction discount, as the Per Kristian Foss claimed. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party allow such an opportunity to go away is, to put it mildly, alarming. Is it because these parties believe that tax relief is too great? The municipal property tax amounts to DKK 2.8 billion. So the right has not said one word about how you want municipal property tax to be taxed in the future, and the owners of the house have no guarantee that the Right will relax on the municipal property tax, which is SEK 2.8 billion, and where one in ten owners with our system would have to pay municipal property tax, as opposed to all those who have to do it today. So both of these parties will need a tax system as long as you want to maintain the property tax. The Progress Party is in favour of abolishing property taxes, but it still has the opportunity to obtain a majority for a significant tax relief if we support our proposal. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party stand back without credibility in their tax promises when you don't even support proposals that will involve as significant tax relief as what we are talking about here, and where you actually have the opportunity to have a majority in this Chamber. The Workers' Party and SV have made an alternative proposal whereby dwellings up to 110 m2 are not taxed. This is a step in the right direction. But that will still mean that four out of ten house owners have to pay house taxes. At the same time as the limit has been raised, the tax regime profile has changed so that the largest dwellings are taxed harder. There is a change in the profile that I agree with, and that is a change in the right direction, because the largest dwellings are taxed harder. However, the proposal still has significant weaknesses. The Committee's 1997 requirement to protect older dwellings is not met. It is an independent point to take care of the older dwellings, while older dwellings both require more maintenance and are generally more expensive to warm up. In the opinion of the Centre Party, too many dwellings are still subject to house taxes with the alternative arrangement presented by the Workers' Party and SV. A calculation method is introduced using residential land as the majority of the Committee in 1997 said: ‘The majority consider that a tariff system, subject to reporting obligations to the equality authorities in the event of a change in use area, becomes too detailed.’ Finally, a explanation of vote: we have been genuinely willing to negotiate with a view to achieving a system that is better than today. I find that it has not been possible to reach such an agreement. The centre party will therefore vote in favour of its own proposals. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV, and against all other suggestions. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. Six, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e446	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e452	First, I have to say that I understand that the representative, Mr Enoksen, is disappointed that the Workers' Party does not agree with the agreement reached by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the spring of 1997. In fact, it was agreed that dwellings of less than 150 m2 would be exempted. The so-called Lundtägen model had considerable weaknesses at that time, and it still has. That is why we chose not to vote in favour of it in 1997, nor can we be expected to vote in favour of such a model today, as we are in favour of abolishing the benefit tax. To the last time the representative of Enoxsen explained, the vote – the subsidiary such: I was a little surprised – if Enoxsen is such to understand – at the fact that the centre party has decided not to vote for a safety valve in today’s system. If there is now no decision in this Chamber, it would be strange if the Central Party could not help with the other non-socialist parties to at least make a rule so that no one should have a housing tariff exceeding 30 pst. of market value. So Enoxen spends a lot of time in his post saying that he is very surprised that the Progress Party and the Right, who have never been for the Lundtigen model either in 1997 or now, does not support the Lundtigen model. But the interesting thing is that the representative doesn't mention his friends in the center with one word. It is not just the Right Party and the Advance Party that believe that the Lundteigen model has its weaknesses. In fact, the centre parties, that is, the Christian People's Party and the Left, do not follow the centre party here either. I understand it's bad. But why didn't Enoxsen mention these parties in one word? He has not even been able to get support from them, because they also understand that a new bureaucratic system that the Enox has set up will cost 350 million. to be implemented, and this is unnecessary. The Enoxen appeals to the Right and the Advance Party to vote in favour of a bureaucratic Lundtigen model. But then my question is: why can't Enoxen and the Center Party join with the Center Parties and the Right and the Advance Party and liquidate the entire treasure when there's almost no one to pay it, and when for the few who have to pay, there's so much bureaucracy that the winning almost goes into the spin?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e463	I reregister that the Right has made this very easy for itself. You're in favour of municipal property taxes and you're saying that it's going to be a voluntary tax. Any tax requires a taxing system; therefore, the Right too will depend on a taxing system in its future tax regime. The current property tax system is no more fair than other tax systems. It varies from municipality to municipality and gives very unfair results. In fact, the right has had the opportunity to go offensively into discussions with a view to getting a proposal for taxing that the Right could have defended in relation to the tax types that you actually want to keep, and that in sum is NOK 2.8 billion. If the Right had chosen such an offensive approach to one of its tax proposals, I actually think that there could have been a reasonably large opportunity to get support from the other parties in the centre, so that one could agree on a scheme that would exempt most people from housing taxes. I record that the Right has not used that opportunity, and my statement that the Right is untrustworthy of that kind of promise is firm because you have now twice denied the possibility of going into discussions with a view to reaching a settlement. It has not even been asked whether it could be appropriate to choose other tax systems than those agreed in 1997, what Børge Brende chooses to call the Lundtigen model, which is a good model for the taxing of the size of the dwelling, a model that is transparent, where you can relate to the external area, and where it would be unnecessary to report changes in the area to the authorities. So to the proposal from the Right on a so-called safety valve: it is a proposal that is not to be voted on here today. It will be sent to Stortinget and voted to Stortinget. We will clarify our vote when the proposal comes to voting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e472	First two words about the municipal property tax: Earlier here in the debate, the Right has been criticized, among others. by the Workers' Party, because where we have a majority, we have abolished the property tax. That's the right line. But we're too municipal self-government, and I actually thought the Center Party was too. Just in the case of property taxes, we believe that it must be up to the municipalities to decide for themselves. Where the right has influence, we usually vote for a drop in municipal property tax, because there's also a tax on housing, on people's homes, that we're against. But I don't think I quite got the answer from the representative Enoch on why he expects the Right and the Advance Party to come as a saving angel in terms of Lundtigen and Enoxsen's housing tax system, when he hasn't even managed to persuade his close friends in the center, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to vote for it. The point is that the Left and Christian People's Party have also said that this system is too bureaucratic, too complicated. And if it's the case that almost all the homes are to be exempted according to the model of the Center Party, why isn't it that the Enoxes can also go along with the other non-socialist parties? He has today a unique opportunity to liquidate the entire benefit tax by living in owner-occupied dwellings, i.e. the rent to the state. That's the challenge of the Center Party. Why don't you go with the Center, the Right and the Advance Party to get rid of this tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e481	It's not about coming as a saving angel in terms of the central party's taxiing model. What's really going on is that the right could have done two things. One could have both had an impact on one of its own tax bills, a strong reduction in the tax on housing by a total of NOK 3.7 billion if one had chosen to enter that debate, and one could actually have done many of the country's homeowners a service by providing a simple, transparent and fair tax system, while most people had thus received a lower tax. So, why don't we agree to completely abolish the income tax on housing? For the simple reason that we maintain taxes according to the ability principle, for the simple reason that we actually want to tax the largest and most expensive dwellings – not the home of most people, but the largest and most expensive dwellings are still to be taxed. So we have a system – unlike many other countries – where you have a deduction of debt interest and where you can rent out half the dwelling without tax. This means, therefore, that if you do not have a benefit tax on the large, expensive dwellings that are gradually emerging around – homes that go far beyond the ordinary people’s needs and that in very many respects become a purely speculative object – yes, you subsidize both an unwary use of resources and an unwary use of energy, and you maintain deduction schemes that, in my opinion, provide an unfair and unfortunate social profile. Therefore, we want to maintain the income tax for them with the very largest dwellings. There is a limit that makes it really only for the biggest homes you'll have to pay income taxes with our system. But not only income taxes, but also property taxes and municipal property taxes will only apply to the largest dwellings with our tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e488	I have followed both the post and the replies to the representative, Enoxen. He went to the frontal attack on the Progress Party and the Right time and time again, and the representative Børge Burnde asked him: Why isn't he talking to the center, which is his close friends? He consistently refuses to answer that. So my question now is, why doesn't he talk to the center?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e495	I actually thought I had answered that. As I said in one of the previous line rounds: if it had been possible to establish a majority for a taxiing system in line with what we want, I think it would have been possible to get with the center. It was little intention to bring only the Christian People's Party and the Left if it was not possible to bring also the Right Party and the Advance Party, because it is actually still necessary to form a majority in this Chamber. I would have liked to see that we had managed to come up with a scheme in collaboration with the Workers' Party, which in many ways had been the most natural. But it is clear that even there it has been problematic to reach agreement, as SV and we have signaled, even outwardly, the opposite starting point for the discussions we were going to enter into. I assume that the representative, Djupedal, will come back to his post. SV has not stated that they will go as far in tax laws as we have expressed, and we are in a different situation than in 1997. But it is quite clear that what should have been done is that the Workers' Party had stood firm on what they strongly argued for in 1997, when they said that most people would not pay house taxes, when they said that they did not want a detailed scheme that made it necessary to report changes in living space to the authorities every year, and when they wanted to protect older homes from taxation. In fact, there would have been a greater chance of establishing a majority for a fair tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e502	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e505	Many of the principles adopted by the representative, Mr Enoxen, in the change of line, and also in his statement are principles which are shared by the SV. That means that when we are going to tax housing, we want the tax to be socially fair, you have to follow the ability principle. And that means that the system we have today is very unfair, and that the proposal Workers Party and SV now have a social profile that is far better than almost any other conceivable alternative. Taxes have been taken into account on the basis of the ability principle, while the large size of the Norwegian owner-occupiers does not actually have to pay house taxes. It has been important for SV to put in place a tax base that is perceived as fair and fair. If we look around us, we will see that most countries have housing and property taxes, to varying degrees – some countries have very strong taxes, others lower. In Norway, it has been a wish – and it has also been SV’s wish – that we should have low housing taxes. And we have! With the model that SV and the Workers' Party are now behind, even less will pay house tax – much less than today. Today it's as much as 93 pst. by Norwegian owners of dwellings who actually pay house taxes. With the scheme negotiated by SV and the Workers' Party, it would be about half of the country's housing owners who would pay house taxes, and many, many, would have significantly reduced taxes. So the question is, why don't we remove the housing tax, as the right-hand side of the hall here says? No, we're not going to eliminate the housing tax, just for two reasons. One is that, in accordance with the principle of ability, taxes are the only fair basis for reasonable taxation. Those who have the largest dwellings also have the largest income throughout, and that means that a reasonable tax on them is actually reasonable. In addition, in Norway we have debt-rate deductions, and those countries that do not have housing tax also do not have debt-rate deductions. That means that if you want to see this from the state's point of view, 75 pst applies. of all debt interest rates in Norway. If you were to allow yourself to say that this was a kind of zero-sum game, then the state would have a significant deficit – fortunately. Because we want debt-interest deductions in the case of residential debt, but we also want those who have the largest dwellings to pay back something in taxes. It's completely wrong, as the representative Foss said in a previous line, that we don't want people to have the opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings. Of course we do! But what has also been important for SV is that we should facilitate the entry into the housing market of those who cannot afford it now. That is why I was pleased that the Christian People's Party from the pulpit said that they would be in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV are behind, about a stepping-up plan with state funding for the construction of cheap rental homes, student homes and low-income homes for first-time start-ups. This is the major problem in the Norwegian housing market, not necessarily the housing tax. The housing tax is perceived by many as the biggest problem in Norwegian housing policy, but this is completely incorrect. The few actually notice that they have a house tax. With the taxiing system SV and the Workers' Party proposed, very many of these problems had been solved. That means that my call to the Center Party is that they think carefully about the upcoming break and see if it's not, after all, better to put in place a fair fare system. The most important thing for most people is to get into the housing market. This means that many people need a small dwelling as a kind of intermediate station before entering a self-ownership dwelling. That means that this thing that goes on rental homes, low-income homes and student housing is infinitely important. The pressure on the housing market in the largest cities is enormous. This means that several national crowns should be used to enable young people to establish themselves. I notice my great surprise that the Norwegian right-hand side is totally uninterested in this important aspect of Norwegian housing policy. They are involved in housing taxes and property taxes and later as if this is the big problem. But that's not it. The big problem is that most ordinary Norwegian families cannot afford to establish themselves in the city we are now in, other than a part of the city where housing prices are lower. I think this is the biggest challenge in housing policy. How are we going to get back to the social housing policy in Norway? How are we going to make it possible for ordinary people to get their own housing? And what are we going to do to ensure that young people don't live in their hearts? It's the way that some of the students who come to Oslo actually have to reject the study because they can't afford to live here. There are auctions where young people stand and bid for each other when laying out dwellings on the rental market that they really cannot afford. This is the biggest problem in Norwegian housing policy, which SV is pleased that we may be getting a few steps closer to the solution through the minority proposal that it is now becoming the majority after the Christian People's Party has signalled that they support it. I hope for the longest time that it would be possible to get a tax base that was socially fair. If you look at the tables on page 70 and beyond in the setting, you will see that the taxiing system that SV, the Workers’ Party – and the Centre on the way – negotiated was a fairly fair system that would safeguard these considerations, as the representative, Mr Enoxsen, also underlined in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e526	It's only been a few days since we had a debate here in the Chamber on Europe and the European Union. It was just a pale shadow of similar debate in the last bigotry. The same can almost be said about the debate we are having today. This seems to be a repetition. I guess we'll get far into a new growth period, and maybe even further, before we have a tax system in place and a housing tax in this country that brings together a broad majority. The left has the same attitude to housing taxes and taxing as we had in the previous period when these questions were addressed in the Stortingen in connection with Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97. Then, together with the Christian People's Party, the Left went in to abolish the benefit tax on owner-occupied dwellings, and that the taxation of residential and leisure property should be based on a fire insurance rate or full-value insurance rate. The same thing we go in for today. This is consistent, and it should not be difficult for the sitting government to govern. The left considers that the insurance rate would be the most clearly simple and unbureaucratic housing tax system. As the Left will also abolish the benefit tax on owner-occupied dwellings, a tax system based on insurance tax will be the basis for the property tax on housing and the municipal property tax. The left does not consider it necessary to develop a new, complex system in which all the country's dwellings need to be re-taxed, as the Government has suggested in its proposal. We want to use the insurance rate the dwelling already has today. Insurance tariffs are simple, fair and easily understandable. Through a large deduction from the taxes on wealth, dwellings of normal standard will avoid house taxes. The left will also reduce the wealth tax in the long term, perhaps in view of the loss once when we are able to achieve a good tax system for the taxation of the return on wealth/capital. It is also worth pointing out that a system of insurance tariffs can replace today's unfortunate system much faster than the comprehensive proposal put forward by the Government, as is known, and as it has emerged from the debate, will take a long time to get operational. There is no doubt that today’s tax system is striking at random and unfairly. The same housing in the same area can get completely different housing taxes. It is therefore disappointing that the Government has not been able to present a proposal that can bring together a majority in the Grand Duchy. We believe that the Government's proposals are too poor to receive the Left's subsidiary support. There is an improvement in relation to today's very unfair system, but the Left will not support a new half-poor system with many of the same weaknesses as today's system. We believe, as I said, that the removal of the benefit tax and the taxation based on the insurance tariff will provide a fair and simple system, and believe that this system should be investigated and promoted for the Stortinget. In order to remedy the situation until a new fair tariff system can be adopted, the Left, together with the Right and the Progress Party, have proposed that it be assumed that complaints at today’s Equation Tariffs are to be accompanied by a maximum tariff of 30 pst. by the technical value of the house, or 30 pst. the observable market price if the current Equation Rate exceeds that. In the end, the left will also support proposal 2, on the phasing-out plan for the construction of rental dwellings, student housing and low-income housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower.ana.ud2477e549	The time for tomorrow's meeting will be immediately. Odelstinget will now cancel the negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
