ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e29	I would like to remind you that the speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e32	It's been up to us over time about the size of scholarships, and it's our rope if it should be so and so big. But what is new this time is that the solidarity of the grant scheme has disappeared. First, there was the employee party government going out that the students who didn't work out were to be punished by 30 pst. loss of scholarships. Later, the opposition coalition has ended up at 15 pst. Moves. This seemed very alarming to me, because in this way, the bill for a grant scheme leads to those who may be struggling to kill themselves and to work it out, and then there is something else that makes them want to have an exam on the day of their exams. I found there to be something new and unfortunate in the Norwegian grant scheme when this is implemented before the quality reform has been treated and it can be weighed against it. It is particularly regrettable that the Workers' Party and the SV, who have our solidarity in this area, are now going into the brow to wind it up. The co-operation management focused on a bet on Kyrkja – among others. several new performance settings, means of baptismal training and funds directly to the ecclesiastical councils. The center part was high on the path by flagging first, with 30 new performances, and made a large number of them first out. And in the debate earlier today, the representative Schjälaaen said that the Centre Party has done a good job in relation to the performances. This seemed to me to be a good job – when one in a short time both manages to flag with 30 options and then quickly cut them down. It's a little decent for the Church, and it can't be a great honour for the Center Party either. In addition, an agreement such as the previous government, the Stoltenberg government, is breaking up with the trade union – this party that maintains that an agreement with the trade union must not be broken. This is a bad piece. In the financial debate, the representative of the Skjärlaen pushed the students to use the word ‘svik’, which was then transferred to the Bondevik government so that a non-one-year-old had fulfilled what one had promised to do in four years' time when it broke the scholarship. My question is, what word will one use for what the Central Party has done here in such a short time, to fall the Government and its own position in the back? The reduction in native language training for foreign language teachers is also a point that has come out badly in the plural setting. It is extremely important when it comes to integration, that it is in place, so that those who come, our new countrymen, can get good Norwegian training and come quickly into society. I would also like to point out that the country lines, which have been flagged by several parties, are once again equal to 30 million. kr, and several of them were put at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e47	I tried to listen with interest when the former councillor named Trond Giske went to the pulpit. I had then expected and thought that we would get up new and exciting ideas and views for Norwegian education policy and Norwegian school, but that was not much of it. Instead, Giske accused the present government, among others. for offences against students. It is, in my opinion, a rudeness that cannot be denied. I refer again to the promise made by former Councillor Giske and his government to all students at the start of the current academic year not to introduce a conversion scheme. That promise was sent out just before the election. Now, guess what the opposite is. A major breach of promises by a former State Council has hardly occurred – I take a small reservation that I am not aware of all the violations of the promises of former Labour Party Councils. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, said in his speech that the Right would no longer promote efforts and hard work in the studies. It's also wrong. Here, I believe, the Progress Party and the Right are very close, and we can undoubtedly find common solutions in this area in future budgetary discussions. Finally, let me mention a major and important issue that has been promoted in the committee's treatment, namely increased capacity in dental training. The majority of the Committee has pointed to both short-term and longer-term solutions, including the development of dental training at the University of Tromsø. After the ministry has returned with its assessments, it becomes an important task for the Storting to give priority to buildings, equipment and human resources that ensure long-term and good dental coverage in all parts of the country. The fact that the Workers' Party will now be entitled to a start-up decision in Tromsø without prioritising a single penny to the action at this budgetary procedure says all about the Workers' Party's inability to give economic priorities. So finally two words about the proposal by Rolf Rekvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In view of the work currently being done in the Ministry and the presentation by the Council of State on this subject, the parties to the Government will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e63	Today, government parties have shown with great clarity how they change the budget by moving in total around. 65 million. kr. This money will save Norwegian education and research, they will save foreign students, and they will save students in private higher education – just to mention something. This is at best symbolism policy, but it also shows just how important it is. Values in school everyday life should ensure that all children and teachers become kind and good. Is it really necessary to spend money on projects about values? Do we no longer have the mission and the standards that take care of these conditions? Private higher education has been allocated the huge sum of 18 million. kr, or 4,3 pst. in increments, from the Government. This may appear to be a force for a supplement to higher public education, as the Workers' Party and SV claim, but is in reality only symbolic, since existing laws and regulations do not distribute funds equally between institutions. The private universities therefore feel as a failure after repeated promises by various government councils and from the administration over many years, promises that the calculation of new rates of grants based on actual expenditure on similar public education would come. The Progress Party invites the Government to submit proposals in good time before the next budget, so that they can be adopted. The gap also shows between the approved number of students and the actual number of students in the various private institutions. It is felt that they will have a reduction of their limits of approx. Two million. kr. It's hard to see from the proposition that this is possible. In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 it reads, in line with the majority comment in the Budget-inside. S No 12 for last year that the department has been ‘in dialogue with private institutions through the Network for Private Higher Education on the new normal costs’. [[NPH]] Normal costs are linked to each institution’s approved measure. Both of these regulations, in our opinion, have to go away. It is necessary to introduce a price per unit. The student who wants to make this complicated calculation superfluous. That it's complicated, we see that for ourselves. This will result in grants being triggered by the individual student via a single price and support for all studies that demonstrate sufficient quality. The conclusion must therefore be that all are treated in the same way and that the Council of State will ensure that it does so. I wish that the Council of State would come back and confirm that she will, because that means a lot to us right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e79	Today, researchers say the following: ‘If the school is to be able to perform the professional and social tasks it faces, professional groups other than teachers must be allowed to do so’. The center party says, finally! We tried to focus on this in the election campaign. We met with deafening silence. The school bat in the campaign was suspicious snowfall. The focus was on school buildings, private schools and teachers. The kids were the few who were concerned about. When the future school is to be created, we need at least the ability to take on the kids we have. It's a fact that teachers are spending more and more time on the social challenges. It's a tough school day. A growing number of young people have major behavioural problems; more and more young people have not learned to limit their lives at home; drug use and crime are a growing problem down to the age of 12. The centre party is convinced that the school must be opened up, and that more adults must enter the school. Schools must view themselves as part of the overall breeding environment in which the young are. The traditional monopoly of teachers on being in school rooms must be broken. Health workers must be let go, non-governmental organisations as well, and not least all schools must have environmental workers. Environmental workers shall contribute to the achievement of social tasks and to the allocation of time for teachers to be primarily educators. Environmental workers must capture what is happening both in the classroom and in the school yard, be caretakers and prevent conflicts. Where there is a need for follow-up beyond what environmental workers can handle in cooperation with parents and teachers, environmental workers shall be at the contact point with the auxiliary equipment and, if necessary, with the police. Furthermore, a first-line service should be provided in all schools. Let's call it an open door. This should be a door where the students who have problems can go through. Behind the door you will find an environmental worker or others that students can get help and support in dealing with the social problems they have, whether they are family, friends or the school situation. Where there is a need for follow-up beyond the ‘Open Door’, the person responsible for ‘Open Door’ shall ensure that the child who has problems is put in the centre and that the same person is responsible for coordinating the auxiliary equipment in consultation with the parents – this to avoid encountering young people who have problems with a number of semi-extreme public hands. «Open door» must operate differently in different schools. But we need to try this out. We have received an OECD report on fighting at school. Yeah, that report can't surprise anyone. As long as we don't have the ability to care for the growing group of kids who get into school with major social problems, we have no chance of creating a good learning environment. Everyone wants us not to take seriously the social environment in school — the kids who fall outside, the losers, the kids who are eager to learn, the losers, and the teachers lose because they have an impossible working situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e103	We have considered proposal No. 8, from SV, quite carefully and feel the need to get a clarification from the Council of State. I hope it comes. If we don't get a clarifying answer, we actually do at the moment that we might need to support that proposal. I'm pointing out that in the budget-inner. S. No I have been given a fairly detailed overview of the amounts of State grants proposed to individual institutions covered by Chapter 282 Private higher education. Then it's in St. prp. Section 1 Appendix No 4 a wording that may suggest that the State grants contained in St. prp are actually redistributed. No 1st@item: It says: «The Government wishes to bring normal costs into line with the real cost level of state institutions and therefore proposes to increase the amount of the item by 18 million. crowns.’» But if it's interpreted so that what initially looks like an increase to the chapter, and that would then be about distributing the increase of 18 million. kr to those who are under the heading, in fact conceals the fact that there is also going back and making cuts in relation to government grants at individual institutions, shown in St.prp. No 1, is it a question of not clarifying through a decision in the Stortinget on the overall distribution of funds? That is why it is important that we get a clear response from the Council of State. I hope it can come now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e115	There are a few things I would like to comment on in relation to the vote and the debate, which I think should be commented on from the Chair. One concerns public higher education schools and public higher education students, which the majority require is to be included in the new support scheme. I just want to make sure that as far as I can see, there's no funds added to this. This will cost, after I have been informed, approx. Six million. kr. The same applies to income-dependent repayment. It is assumed that the scheme will be continued. Nor can I see here that funds have been put into the budget. It'll cost 0.4 million. kr. Then I want to touch on the State Teachers' Course. It is stated in the proposal that continuing education and training tasks will be transferred to the Learning Centre, etc. during 2002 and the draft budget is thereafter. The Committee calls for this to be maintained until further notice. But I would ask the Committee and the Stortinget to see this in conjunction with – which is not apparent from the original proposition – a strengthening of another post, namely the development of competence in professional training and professional training – the so-called KUPP. There's an increase, so this together becomes a continuation of the bet. So to the question I've been given in a couple of articles about the $18 million. kr in increase to private colleges. The distribution there arises after there has been a review, under the direction of the Giske State Council, of the normal costs of individual education and an adjustment thereof. This review has been carried out in cooperation with the Network of Private Colleges. Then, in a couple of cases, it's led to a reduction in grants, and that's what might have been a little bit of a surprise, since there's an increase in funding of 18 million. kr. In short, some state colleges are more effective than others. In BI's case, I just think it's related to the fact that NHH is actually quite effective. But I have said from this pulpit before today that I will take the initiative to carry out a closer review of the funding of the private colleges and come back to the Stortinget with it. It's a statement in a couple of cases, but it's after a review of the Private Colleges Network. So how this turns out, shouldn't come as a surprise to those who have participated there. Finally. It has been mentioned many times that the lending system that the Government does not build on – we do not liquidate it, but we do not build it on – will affect the development of digital learning material. That's not right. This is part of another post that the Government has not taken the initiative to reduce, but which, on the other hand, the number of committees is now taking the initiative to reduce, namely ICT in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e128	It is quite impressive to hear some of the representatives from the Right swinging violently in terms of the conversion system. Some of us are not happy with the conversion system. We've said that quite a few times. But what we have the compromise on is 25 pst. The thing that the right hand side, and the other parts that don't go in to increase the grant share now, has said to be basic, is 30 pst. Then it's going to be conversion of 10 pst. That's what they've sketched before, and they've sketched for us several times. That's why I think it's quite impressive that they're able to swing so high on the difference between 25 and 30 pst. There's nothing I'm happy about, but that's what we did in the compromise to get to 40 pst. scholarship share. It was important to us. Then to student homes. We haven't added the 26 million. kr as the Government of Bondevik submitted. We've been at the level of the government of Stoltenberg in terms of student housing. We would also like to have had more money for this. We've been working on it in relation to the regrouping proposition we're dealing with, and we've given the setting, which you're probably familiar with. There we have regrouped some items in relation to the budget, so we have the hope that we can manage to get more student homes than what is originally in our proposal. So to some of that government council, that is, the hourly rates of Norwegian training for minority groups. There's an allocation of a little over 700 million. kr. That is the proposal. We know that for the current year there is an under-use in this item of approx. Twenty-five million. kr. That's the actual ratio. We are clear that there will be no change in the rate. Nowhere does it say that the hourly rate is going to change. I got a feeling that the Council of State was about to change the hourly rate. It is not a premise, and it should be completely unnecessary in relation to the allocation that we have and the experience that we have with the current year's development in relation to this item. On 7 December, we received a letter from the Department on entry 2410, grouping the appropriations in the various posts. To that end, I would like to say that we assume here that the Ministry is making the necessary redeployments within the expenditure and income chapter of the study funding, and is reporting back in proposals for a revised national budget. We've broken down posts based on the knowledge we had, and then the department has later made a clarification. It is therefore natural for them to report back to the Grand Duchy, where appropriate, in the context of the revised budget, on the re-allocations carried out under these headings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e141	Be proud of your heritage and your faith, said Kofi Annan in the Nobel speech yesterday, warning against religious intolerance. He pointed to the importance of religions in the world society and pointed to values such as tolerance and mutual understanding. But a prerequisite for this is that we then know our inheritance and our faith and pass this on to the next generation. That's what baptismal training is all about. Only the church that survives will survive. The Church is a meeting place and a community and has a joint responsibility to ensure the expressed right to spiritual development of the Children’s Convention – not enough with church buildings, which are referred to in such a fine manner, it must also have resources to be filled with content. In 1969, baptismal education was completed in Norwegian school, and the KRL evaluation shows that a whole generation of children and young people have little knowledge of Christian faith and ethics. The Church itself has formulated the striking. We're facing real illiteracy in this field, it says. The head of the Council of Churches says that the Bondevik government's church budget corrects many of the skepticisms of the Stoltenberg government. We refer to the connection between the baptismal training plan and the stepping-up plan for church staff, which the Church Council has drawn up on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Education and Research and which the Stortinget has asked for, but this is now being cut. At all, there are many inconsistencies in the setting of the Kuf budget. SV writes in a note on page 17 that ‘increasing the number of hours spent in Norwegian education... is not the solution to improve primary education’, while on page 13 it states that ‘the increase in the number of hours... can be a good tool to strengthen the literacy and literacy skills of students’. Note on page 15 of the Progress Party states that ‘the State transfers directly to the Norwegian Church sufficient funds to ensure satisfactory manning’. But on page 43, they're going to cut 14 million. kr for the benefit, which means that the obligations relating to the provision of benefits are not even followed up. Furthermore, on page 27, they say that ‘school is an important venue for the dissemination and debate on value’, but thus they cut into the project ‘Values in school life’. On page 19, the Central Party underlines the importance of the national lines ‘and proposes to maintain the earmarked state subsidy... in order to ensure that the landlines are maintained’ – but are in and out of EUR 30 million. kr from landlines, however. From the Workers' Party we hear great words about training for linguistic minorities in primary school, about student welfare and about the Church, but we are going to be part of this to pay for students to have their loan paid – increase of the loan with scholarships, of 40 p.m. – from November 1st next year, if they are on exam before Christmas. We agree to increase the cost framework for the students, but it is time for the phase-in of the conversion scheme that we disagree with. So that's what this fight is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e160	I have had the word before today and had not intended to have any three-minute post. But I feel the need to answer a little bit to the representative of the Aarøen's harsh criticism of the Center Party, and against me sail, to fail the Church. I actually think it's a pretty hard and rough claim. I have been a member of the Church's staff for 20 years and still serves this church. I don't know how the Aarøen reads the script, but I hope he reads the script better than he reads the budget setting. Reading the budget position in a way that takes things out of context, I think I'm actually quite unheard of, and then a person can come to very many different conclusions. I want to remember what the majority says about baptismal education: ‘The majority consider that there is a need for a significant increase in staffing in connection with the introduction of baptismal training in the church and indicates that the financial framework in this field will be returned in the context of the treatment of the notification of baptismal training.’ Then it is time to set aside funds for baptismal training. In the case of the performances, they've been shifted for six months. In addition to 30 performances, there are 10 slide shows. So I actually think the claim that the Skjellaa and the Center Party are failing the Church is quite unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e177	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e180	The short comment must be that the answer that came from the Council of State, for us, is not clarifying. We have the impression that here we are making a comparison between apples and pears – not between completely comparable conditions – which then makes it necessary to clarify how the funds in this chapter are to be distributed in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e185	I want to focus on a matter that is important for Norway, and especially important for North Norway – dental education, odontology education. A unanimous church, education and research committee has chosen to have dental training as a separate chapter in the recruitment process. A unanimous committee suggests that there is a great shortage of dentists in the public dental service. The Committee also points out that dentists, especially those with special competence, are today highly geographically divided, with high levels of coverage in the university cities of Oslo and Bergen and poor coverage, especially in the north of Trondelag and North Norway. There is an impending crisis in the public dentistry in Norway. This crisis is already taking place in Northern Norway today and will become stronger in the coming years. A unanimous committee calls for a plan to be put in place before the revised national budget in 2002 on how to improve dental cover. A minority, consisting of SV, the Working Party and the Centre, want dental training as quickly as possible. It's urgent. It is of little benefit to North Norway that dentists are trained in Oslo and Bergen. Studies and experiences from medical training and pharmaceutical training in Tromsø show that the training in Tromsø and North Norway is 80 pst. the chance of staying in the country and thus living and working in the districts. If the opposite happens, there's a very small chance of coming to North Norway as a doctor, as a pharmacist, or as this applies to a dentist. I would challenge the Committee to continue working on the matter, so that when this plan is adopted – before the revised national budget in 2002 – dental training is started in Tromsø as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e198	Just a few comments on some of the things that have emerged in the debate: The first is about the performances. – Now I see that the specialist councils for the budget we are dealing with today are not present, but we hope that other members of the government can deliver a greeting. – The proposal put forward by the government of Stoltenberg on the number of performances in 2002, namely the proposal for an increase of five, is the second highest number proposed by some government of at least ten years. When the Christian People's Party itself was in government, the number was lower. The only time it's been higher was for the current year. Then 30 performances were proposed. That the outcome of the committee became five could not possibly be a disaster – compared to the Christian People's Party itself suggested when they were in government. The second concerns the question of digital learning material. The means proposed for teaching materials under the hood. 223 heading 62, i.e. 103.25 million. kr, the dwindling government had largely intended to use to develop more digital learning materials, available and free of charge for secondary school students. That is why it is true, as stated earlier in the debate, that a cut in this item will affect the development of digital learning material. For the first time in high school, we received digital educational material for the first time in high school. As a result, 50,000–60,000 students across the country could use this for free on the Internet instead of having to buy books. So to the scholarships and the conversion scheme. A large number from the Right have been made by some that they have almost saved the students by opposing the introduction of the conversion scheme from the autumn of 2002. So let's do a little math on what the right hand side has done with the grant and the conversion system will lead to. With the proposal that the Government now has on the table, a student who takes four years of education will receive NOK 96 000 in scholarships. With the proposal that Stortinget will now adopt, he will receive NOK 128 000 – that is, more clearly. In the case of those who are delayed, one who takes four years of training and is delayed one year, with the Government's proposal, will receive NOK 120000 in scholarships, and with the large majority's proposal NOK 148 000. How this can mean a deterioration for those who are delayed is completely incomprehensible. The truth is that all students will get more in scholarships with the majority scheme than with the Government, under one condition, that they will ever take one single exam. And that must be a reasonable requirement! It is not that you will lose the scholarship for all eternity if you finish an exam; you will receive the scholarship when you take the exam. Anyone who conducts some degree – and I think that is a reasonable claim – gets more money with the majority’s plans. If the right does not want the students to take the exam, then we disagree with that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e211	I may have been guilty of a slight misunderstanding as to what it was desirable that I clarify the financing of the private universities. I've explained how the distribution of the 18 million. On what basis and how discussions with the network of private universities have been conducted under the leadership of the former Council of State Giske. Let me just say, I'm pretty clear that this has given me some results that may have surprised someone – including myself. That is why I said earlier today that I will come back to a review of the funding of private universities. There are at least two occasions. One occasion is when we get a common law for private and state colleges, another is when the government – that is what I announced earlier today – comes with a change in the private college law of spring. We want the earliest possible equivalence between private and state universities before the introduction of the quality reform. – Now I hope I have given a somewhat clearer answer to this. I will not hold the debate with the Workers' Party for too long on digital learning methods. It is clear that digital learning material can be offered, but funds for the development of digital learning material – which Vidar Bjørnstad interpellered to me earlier today – are therefore under the cover. 248 Specific ICT actions in education. The draft budget presented by the Government of Stoltenberg states, and here the current government has not proposed any reductions. But, as far as I am concerned, there are proposals for reductions on the part of the majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e225	What got me to take the floor now at the bottom of the debate was the representative Giske's two speeches in the debate today. I think the Council of State describes reality in two ways quite skeptical. He says earlier today that it is cut in the framework of the education committee that creates the need for the heavy repriorities. That's not true. The majority have had freedom of choice as to whether they would enter and re-prioritize within these frameworks as well. So when there's been heavy re-priorities within the framework, there's a choice the Workers' Party has been involved in taking. It is not the framework that has forced the heavy re-priorities. The Labour Party has had a choice. The working party has chosen to receive a grant with a conversion. The Workers' Party has chosen a lower level of ambition in student housing than the one that the Bondevik government has set up. They have chosen to reduce the provision of landline, and they have chosen to give less money to the Church. When Trond Giske also claims that there are a lot of performances – five positions – that's right. But the problem is that the District Council has thus been running from its own signature on the leisure agreement with the Preste Association. It just shows what that signature was worth. That's what I think is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e234	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e237	I asked for the word to be given to comment on Clemet's comments in response to Arne Sortevik. In the case of support for private schools, it is difficult to say that the figures obtained there are the result of certain normal costs and a certain number of students. What the ministry is now adding up to with this 18 million. kr, is to adjust something that has never been determined. An attempt to link some bands to a normal cost that has not been at the bottom before. That's the actual ratio. It is quite random how the budget figures for the various institutions have emerged. There have been debates in Stortinget, there have been different situations, and then we have a budgetary framework for the various institutions. What the ministry is now up to is that one within these 18 million is going to adjust some costs, and then one is going to say that we're introducing this principle. It's going to be wrong. I fully accept that one should introduce a principle and go through all the institutions that receive grants, define normal costs and then create a system, but not by these additional promises that we have received here. It's going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e262	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 910]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e270	We were supposed to be ready to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e277	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Søren Fredrik Voie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-7, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 8, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first vote on minority proposals outside the framework. Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to allocate the increased grant to private colleges, cf. cap. 282 item 70, make a percentage breakdown in relation to the total grant of higher education.» The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal. The President is not sure if the Advance Party has found out whether these are apples or pears. The President shall make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e302	If we leave the fruit cane, at least we have come to be satisfied with the last answer from the Council of State. We will then vote against the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, and see this in a principal context, which will come in good time before revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e307	The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the proposal by Mr Rikvam on behalf of the Left Party of Socialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e312	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e324	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a project to carry out experiments, in particular in relation to the student funding component. The experiment should be organised in such a way that state funding follows the student. The project is evaluated on an ongoing basis. The evaluation shall be carried out by the Norwegian Research Council.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on how missing reading and writing skills, in combination with drop-out from school, affect young people’s ability to engage in criminal behaviour.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The activities of the State Educational Loan Fund are put off for competition. This matter shall be referred to the Grand Duchy." Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an ongoing evaluation of the impact of the conversion of the cost norm on foreign students in different countries.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, as soon as an overview of the impact of the conversion has been obtained, to provide adjustments to the cost standard for the countries in which the conversion has had a negative impact on comparison with students in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e361	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a full dental education at the University of Tromsø, where public dental care is given special attention in the study programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e376	It is then to be wrestled over the framework area 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e3865	There is an aberrant proposal for Framework 17 No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e7349	The proposal for a framework decision remains to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e7386	Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-2.ana.ud2011e7419	There is no record.
