ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e44	From the representatives Trond Helleland and Børge Brende there is an application for leave from 27 March to 29 March, both to attend a conference at Wilton Park in Steyning, England. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Hallgrim Berg For South-Trøndelag County: Michael Momyr
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e72	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e75	I would like to suggest that the building and land-use unit provided by Posten BA can be used for non-commercial housing for young people in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e80	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e92	On 19 June 1997 the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted a new system for the budgetary procedure applicable until 30 September of this year. The Presidency appointed last year a sample to evaluate the new regime. The Committee presented its position for the Presidency on 1 March this year. The President would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its thorough and well-worked work. The majority of the sample recommends that the 1997 budgetary reform be continued and made permanent. In accordance with this, the majority of the Presidency, with the exception of the Vice-President Hans J. Røsjorde of the Grand Duchy, shall encourage the continuation of the amendments made to the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy and to the Financial Regulation of 1997 without a time limit. In addition, the Presidency recommends that the two positions of involvement in the Administration of the Stortinge which were created for, inter alia, carry out work of a budgetary nature, is converted into permanent posts. The Presidency has not taken a decision on the transfers of responsibilities for budgetary chapters between the committees included in Annex 2 to the selection. The Presidency will come back to this question on a later occasion. With these comments, I recommend the presidency's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e107	I will not contribute to this being a long debate. I refer you to the basic attitude the party of progress has had to the trial system that the majority now wants to make permanent. It is on this basis that there is a minority comment from me, on behalf of the Progress Party. Our member of the sample has also taken this one in this very area, because we believe that the old scheme is useful in many respects to express policy differently from what has now emerged. I would also like to point out that the new system can cause significant problems of voting and, in the worst case, could cause problems in getting a budget decision at all. I guess that's a relationship that you'll be able to find a solution to. In the case of the Progress Party, it has been essential to maintain a mechanism that has provided opportunities for policy-making in line with what an alternating majority could produce. Not least, this is important in terms of the work of the Committees, since the work of the Committees, by making this system permanent, does not in many ways become the same as in previous times in terms of the ability to pursue policies in the Committees and in this way produce a proposal for a budget that better reflects the political point of view – not least in situations that we have had for years now, with minority governments. It is obvious that the practical treatment of the budget here in the Chamber has become much simpler with the new model. But the question is: is it going to be that the practical conditions for the work here in the Chamber in order to obtain simple decisions are going to be governing, or is it going to be more important to bring forward the purely political positions and the various proposals for appropriations weighed up in a balancing process, as the Storing has done over a long period of time? The background is that representatives should feel in a way that they are doing a political act in the committees, more than that they are at best involved in moving a few dollars back and forth. That's what's part of the drive – to pursue politics. As a matter of fact, the new system could largely be left to the financial committee, and the other committees could find something else to do in the meantime. It is in many ways so that this is arranged with the small degree of freedom of action that becomes part of the committees. It makes work in many ways less interesting, even though it is structurally for the Storting and for the Government, and perhaps also for the users, to some extent easier and easier to relate to results that emerge early in the session. But politically, I would argue that with what the majority is now in favour, this becomes incredibly much more uninteresting in keeping the old arrangement. With this, I just want to make it clear that the Progress Party will vote against I and II, with the exception of the last paragraph, namely the repeal of Section 10. I ask that the vote be taken in accordance with this. So the party of progress will vote in favour of the last paragraph, the repeal of Section 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e124	The President wants to raise the vote so that there is a possibility of expressing different views.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e127	SV is in favour of the recommendation that the budgetary reform be carried out on a permanent basis. However, it is right to make a few comments about it, because budgetary reform is not an obvious success, although it is a system that is manageable. Two of the objectives of the budgetary reform have been the long-term maintenance of budgetary policy and democratic treatment. Both of these points are all possible reasons for questioning. The long-term nature of the budgetary process is at best six months. But it turns out that there isn't even half a year, because the Storting makes major and significant changes throughout the year that make this, as it is called, long-term in the sustainable budgetary policy is, at best, a truth with great modifications. The figures obtained by the sample on their table show that the Storting has made major changes after the budgetary reform than before. Of course, what this is about is it's hard to have an absolute education about. But at least it shows that long-termity is obviously not present. As far as democratic treatment is concerned, it is, of course, right that Vice-President Røss grounde now pointed out that the democratic treatment of each trade committee is considerably worse now than before. This is because many organisations and many in the world are in contact with, for example: the Social Committee or the Energy and Environment Committee to present its views. In reality, however, it is the Financial Committee that has the essential word in all important budgetary matters. This means that very much of the state budget procedure carried out in the specialist committees does not have a significant impact on the use of money by the Stortinge. All experience over the past few years also shows that there are relatively small amounts moving in the trade committees. This means that the role of the technical committees related to the budgetary process has been weakened. Obviously, the professional committees have an important role to play in many other issues dealt with in the Storting, but not necessarily directly in the budget. What is then SV's summary of this is that the old budgetary system had obvious weaknesses. The new system has many obvious weaknesses, but from a totality it's still better. What makes a precise evaluation of budgetary reform difficult is that during this whole period of budgetary reform, we have had minority governments and, in part, weak minority governments. This, of course, makes it difficult to get a precise evaluation. For what is due to minority parliamentaryism, and what is due to budgetary reform, it is very difficult to have an absolute form of formation. The fact that the changes in the budget of the Grand Duchy over the last four years have been greater than in previous periods may well be the result of this relationship and not the budgetary reform as such. However, we would recommend that the budgetary reform be continued, and thus be included in the majority, simply because we believe that the old system also had so many weaknesses that this system deserves to be tried out for a longer period of time. Nor can there be any doubt that with a majority parliamentaryism, this system will be more efficient, and it will be obvious that more long-term budgetary treatment could then be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e142	The centre party is involved in the plurality that suggests that the new budgetary reform be continued. I think it's right to make a short comment from our side. It is linked to one point, namely the political processes of budgetary work and the space that, in our opinion, it is still too bright for improvement. In this way, I refer to my comment in the settings from the evaluation selection. Let me just say very briefly that we are particularly concerned that the hearings, which are supposed to be an important exchange of information between the Storting and the audience, are going to fall apart. From the Budget Reform Selection in the previous period, the emphasis is on the counterexpertise that one here has to offer to other aspects of the expertise associated with the Government. We think, then, that there should still be a run for the hearings in time to allow the various instances to make their recordings at such an early stage that the Storting also has a real chance to evaluate the recordings that are coming. There was a special run in time. There was also good contact between the Financial Committee and the various Scientific Committees. I think it is important to stress this, too, because there is already contact between the different budgetary phases of the year, or between different organisations and the different professional committees. This is not a tradition for, for example: The position of the JRC is maintained in the Financial Committee in the same way as the tradition of listening to the Social Committee and other committees. It is possible to take care of most of this through the responsibilities of each party group. We also believe that the Presidency and the Financial Committee have a special responsibility in relation to the arrangements for the budgetary procedure, and we would like to call on the Presidency and the Financial Committee from the autumn of the interplay to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e151	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2, 3 and 4 are dealt with together – and see it as agreed. [[Food, see page 2373]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e185	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be restricted to a main 10 minute post from each group and from the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the statements of the Council of State. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e194	Our vulnerable and long-haul coasts and the monitoring of shipping that goes along them have always been and will probably remain a major challenge. We have recently been reminded of this again. The proposers request an investigation. This is unnecessary in the Committee's view, since the Minister for the Environment has already taken an initiative and will consider several concrete measures to strengthen coastal preparedness and thus reduce the risk of serious maritime accidents along the coast. Responsibilities and the organisation of emergency response systems will be reviewed with a view to achieving improvements. It is possible that it may be appropriate to give the main emergency services extended responsibilities, or that defence commands should be given extended responsibilities, because they have important management facilities. It is important that information from different monitoring systems is best coordinated. Therefore, the coastal monitoring departments concerned will jointly assess the more efficient use of resources. The government is also looking at how we can exploit the Defence Coastal Radar Chain in North Norway and possibly renew the Defence Coastal Radar Chain in South Norway. This is calculated at a cost of 600 million. kr. We have adopted the position of the Stortinget Coastal Management Committee and a new Coastal Guard Act that has been followed up. This has contributed to a significant improvement in coastal preparedness and crisis management, but it is not yet good enough. In the light of the wide range of interministerial work undertaken by the Government in this field, the Committee cannot see other than that the proposers request in Document No. 8:43, is unnecessary because the work as said has already started. We also deal with proposals from Hallgeir Langeland and Kristin Halvorsen to grant 50 million. kr more to Coast Guard in the current year. This proposal was submitted on 24 January of this year, i.e. just after the year's budget was finalised here in Stortinget. It is no unknown matter for the Defence Committee that the defence in general is living with a very difficult budgetary situation. Nevertheless, the budgets of the Coast Guard have been largely protected from budget cuts. But Coast Guards, who perform their daily tasks out on the fishing grounds, are not exempt from the tight economic situation. Coast Guards have been given a new task this year in the context of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. Some of the Coast Guard vessels shall also be upgraded this year. This will lead to a reduction of approx. 30 patrol days. We also know that increased fuel prices can help to make the budget situation of the Coast Guard even tighter. However, it is the responsibility of the Government in the context of the revised national budget to assess whether the adopted budget of the year is sufficient for the work to be carried out also by the Coast Guard. The Committee therefore assumes that the Government will make proposals for additional appropriations if it finds that the budget adopted by the Coast Guard is not sufficient to carry out the important tasks assigned to them on a daily basis. We are also dealing today with the case of the submarine accident with «Cursk». There is no disagreement in the committee that these expenditures must only be taken as they are. In the terrible situation, we showed ourselves as good neighbors. But it also showed that having good relations between neighbours is crucial in critical situations. The Norwegian military and civil rescue workers and the Norwegian divers made a formidable effort in this rescue operation, with great respect for both Norway and Russia, and also far beyond the two countries involved, this rescue effort was noted. From this pulpit I will express a warm thanks for a great effort. In retrospect, efforts have been made to establish bilateral cooperation on accident alerts, search and rescue in the north. In the Barents Sea, the Norwegian coastguard Russian fishermen are ready for daily rescue. This cooperation is ongoing in relation to small and slightly larger accidents and accidents. It is good to know that the neighbourhood works well even when the daily problems arise. But this too depends on good relations between neighbours in the daily use of the fishing grounds. And it depends on many Norwegian everyday heroes who are not mentioned in the media, but who do a lot of work. They should also have a warm thank you for the job, which is done brilliantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e217	As regards Document No: 8:43, the proposal of the representatives of Bastesen, Stang, Kleppe and Stenzach on the establishment and coordination of comprehensive coastal surveillance, we agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol. However, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers in their concerns, and when the representative Rui spoke of 'our vulnerable and long-haul coasts', it is a very important issue. We have a vulnerable coast, and recent ship sharks have focused on the need for comprehensive and better coordinated monitoring of shipping. There can be no doubt that coastal preparedness needs a comprehensive review, and it is okay that a broad and inter-ministerial work has now been undertaken within the Government to strengthen this preparedness. But I want to point out that when the Bondevik government reduced two samples at the same time, namely the Defence Policy Selection and the Vulnerability Selection, the idea was to form a comprehensive picture of threats and vulnerability and the need for preparedness in all areas of society. Both of these samples were commissioned to deliver the cancellation simultaneously, which also happened, in June 2000. This was in line with what has been the leaders of the Great Britain throughout the 1990s, that the Great Britain should deal with everything that concerns military and civil protection at the same time. It therefore appears incomprehensible that the Council of State Godal has helped to decide that the Storting's treatment of the Vulnerability Committee must wait until after the complete conversion of the Defence has been completed. I think this is critical. We have been told that the Ministry of Justice will present a message related to the Vulnerability Committee's closure for the autumn, and that the Stortinget will then be able to look at, among other things. our vulnerable coast, the danger of terrorist attacks against oil and gas installations in the North Sea, attacks on fishing resources, etc. The proposal currently under consideration by the Committee does not provide a good basis for a thorough treatment of the overall vulnerability picture and of coastal preparedness. However, we are pleased that the Government has now started this interdepartmental work, and there seems to be no reason to comment on the proposal by the proposers. However, we think it would have been useful for Stortinget to have an overall assessment of vulnerability and preparedness in the context of discussing conversion – and we are talking about the greatest change of defence after the war. It would be natural to see these questions in context. As regards Document No: 8:44, the proposal by Kristin Halvorsen and Hallgeir Langeland for an additional 50 million for the 2001 Coast Guard. kr, I have great sympathy for that. And the reason is good. However, it is totally unnatural that we should adopt a 50-million increase only two to three months into a budgetary year. kr to Coast Guard. At least we know that there is more than enough funding up to the revised national budget, and we in the Committee assume that the Government will come to the Stortinget with proposals for the addition of the revised national budget if this proves necessary. In the case of case No. 4, a total committee goes into the appropriation of 19.4 million. kr. In line with what Rui said, I want to stress that there was a tremendous effort we witnessed, in a heartbreaking tragedy that we all followed and lived into. I also have to add that it was frustrating to experience how this was handled by the Russian authorities, when we learned in retrospect that the accident happened on Saturday afternoon and we first heard it through the media on Tuesday, and then it was not until Sunday after the Norwegian divers were able to start the business too fully. This also reminds us of the need to try to influence the Russians to translate their practices into a similar tragedy. I would encourage the Government to think through what can be done to achieve better cooperation with the Russians in the event of similar tragedies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e232	In the case of cases No. 2 and 3, I have nothing special to add to the settings. I just want to say that if it turns out that the Coast Guard does not have enough resources to do his job in a satisfactory way, we will see well-willed to increase them, but it must be in connection with the revised national budget. In the case of case No. 4, I only want to join very briefly all those who thank and wish to give homage to Admiral Skorgen and his crew for the very fine job they did in connection with the tragic accident of Curse. I would also like to point out that we need to look at all aspects of the experience of that event, not least the Russians' lack of openness. It is too bad, and in future accidents it must be better if we are to be able to help those who are involved in it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e239	The President-in-Office of the Court of Justice of the European Communities 2 and 3 have given a thorough review of the main intentions related to the vote that we are now debating. For my own part, on behalf of the Advance Party, I would like to add that what has been included in Document No. 8:43 of the proposers, is an essential matter. And when this case has been brought forward as a Document No. Eight proposals, of course, are based on two things: a number of events have updated the need to cooperate, and on the other hand, it may be that promoting a proposal might increase the pace of the work being done by the Government. And in terms of the work being done now, it is important that this be carried out with a little discovery and crunch, in order to arrive at results that provide the best possible basis for a more comprehensive management of coastal surveillance. As a result, the main intentions of the proposal are also met. As I said at the outset, to meet what is in the proposal requires a pace. But economic awareness about task allocation and resource allocation is also required. And it must be a clear objective to develop a coherent and easily identifiable responsibility in terms of how monitoring is to be carried out. Now, I would like to add that all the arguments provided by the Council of State Godal are relevant arguments in this situation. He then also pointed in the letter that is attached to the setting, to the work that the Government is using. I would like to point out that we can wish for a comprehensive monitoring. We can hope and believe that we have systems that capture the vast majority of things and that can avert accidents, but we can't get away with the absolutely nocturnal fact that driving a ship is a responsibility of the master. And I doubt whether in the future – no matter what you do – it will be possible to guard against accidents through surveillance and intervention. You have to be prepared for accidents to occur. We can't guard against that, and then it's all a matter of balancing monitoring, intervention, and costs against the effect of a fundamental shock. Then it may be at least as important to have countermeasures when lost that make it possible to clean up quickly and limit the damage, because I doubt that in some way what you might have to think about, you might say that you take on the responsibility of a master. It would be, in my opinion, quite meaningless. However, it does not exempt the State from exercising supervision in a sensible way and at least make responsibilities visible and have a readiness to do so. I would also like to point out that if we are now to be able to put further tasks on the defence with a holistic approach, we must also finance this, because if this is to be taken into account within the ordinary defence framework, we all know what the consequences are – there is a debate that we will come back to in a wider context. I see no reason, as the representative Rise does, to take inward what concerns the Vulnerability Committee. We'll have to deal with that in the context of the attitude that's in the committee. We can all have opinions about it, but I think it would be right to take this into account. With regard to the proposal for additional appropriations for the Coast Guard, I agree with the rapporteur in assessing this. I would also like to point out the letter from the Council of State, where he explains why the reduction in the number of sailing days occurs, namely by upgrading the vessels. It will give you a better starting point when this upgrade has happened. Like other speakers, I would like to say that if it turns out that there is a need to donate funds, it will be taken when an amount has been identified, and then as an addition to the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e256	I will not contribute to any extension of the debate; I will manage by much less than ten minutes. There is a great deal of consensus – virtually complete agreement – in all these three issues in the Committee, so I see no reason to extend the debate. I refer you to the statement made by the President-in-Office of two of the cases, Anne Helen Rui, and I refer in particular to the statement made by the representative Rise from this interlocutor instead. I agree with Rise that it would have been a great advantage if the Vulnerability Committee could be treated together with the long-term proposition that Stortinget now has for treatment. It must be noted that this has not been possible in the Government, but I hope that it will be followed up as soon as possible so that you can get a treatment from that side of the case as well. It is true, as has been pointed out here, that we have a vulnerable coast, and we must ensure that we can carry out the tasks we have there in the best possible way. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, I take it for granted that if the revised national budget proves that the appropriations given will not be sufficient for the whole year, the Government will ensure that a proposal on the necessary additional appropriations is made. In that case, it will be dealt with with with with all manner of goodwill, at least from the centre party. In the case of the ‘Course’ case, I will join those who have expressed their honour to those on the Norwegian side who participated in the rescue work. Unfortunately, it was too late to save anyone; there was no one to save any more when the rescue work started, but you could not know. The job that was done deserves at least all kinds of honor. And here, there is agreement that the costs should be covered – as proposed in the proposal, and as the Committee also proposes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e267	The debate on the Coast Guard and the capacity and activity of the Coast Guard in the 2001 budget year is really about the whole big question of what kind of defence we are going to have in the future. And what lies there of promising approaches from the Government is a description of the fact that the threat picture is completely significantly changed after the end of the Cold War, that the major challenges Norway has, among other things. is to manage fisheries resources and that environmental problems and threats from the east are much greater than any thought of an invasion of Norway. And in that context, there is a need to assess the activity of the Coast Guard. Norway manages a territory to land and to water corresponding to 30 pst. of Europe's territory; it's a giant area! We have one of the world's most important mattresses in charge. Proteins are an important resource for the world's population, and it is very important that these tasks are those that are taken most seriously by the Norwegian defence. That is why it is a great paradox that the Defence Committee and the Stortinge, with the exception of SV, adopted the 2001 budget with open eyes – it was stated in the budget position that the activity of the Coast Guard would be reduced in relation to the year 2000, while at the same time having a situation of significant fish fraud and with fundamental support that could be major environmental problems. It is simply not responsible for managing some of the most important tasks that Norway has. That is why SV has submitted a proposal for an additional allocation to the Coast Guard, so that we should be absolutely sure that the activity does not have to be reduced. Otherwise it should be the opposite, that the activity was escalated, so that we could do a real job of managing the fishing resources and providing a much better standard of environmental work along our long-range coast. The Committee has clearly pushed this issue forward to the revised national budget, but there is no doubt that the majority of the population is ready to grant additional appropriations to the Coast Guard if the Government makes such a proposal in the revised form, after hearing the statements today. But what must be interesting for the Coast Guard is whether a person is already receiving a signal that the activity can be increased. Of course, the budget lasts six months, but it is of great importance to clarify whether a desire to increase activity by the Coast Guard and to look forward to additional appropriations in the context of the revised national budget. That's why I challenge the Minister of Defense to say something about it in his post. He now knows where the bulk of the population is, even if you're going to vote for SV's proposal here today. I think it would have been a scandal of a national and national nature if part of it had happened in terms of preparedness, which is now apparent in terms of the north, for example. at the heart of the Oslo Earth. Then I actually think that the Akersgate had been standing on its head, and that it had been a considerable pressure. It has something to do with distance, and it has something to do with lack of understanding, not primarily in the Storting, perhaps, but in relation to what really makes it snap in the political debate: that there is a distance and a lack of understanding of how important and important a job it is to manage these resources responsible for the future. That is a regrettable fact to record, but that is not a less important political matter for that reason. On the contrary, it should mean that Stortinget knows an extra great responsibility for ensuring that this job is done properly. So I wish that the discussion that is now about the Coast Guard, by the majority of the committee, will also be withdrawn when the committee examines the reorganization of the defence structure. It now seems to me that the great pressure comes from almost all the parties, except SV, on more of the old – more of the old invasion defense that means that we're going to stand with our noses facing east and believe that the Russians are coming rolling across the border in large hordes. The major problems with Russia are the environmental problems, and the poverty problem, which means that there is no other border in the world where the standard of living is as different as between Norway on the one hand and Russia on the other. My appeal to the bulk of the population is, if you are afraid of Russians: at least be it for the right reason! And then it's a completely different perspective you have to have on defence policy in the future than what you have now. And then you have to turn your nose from land to water. The major challenge in the future is to manage fish resources responsibly, to take environmental problems seriously, to have a preparedness for vulnerable oil installations that can easily be subjected to terrorism, and to have in addition the competence to do so, which means that no advanced hackers, wherever they may be – perhaps in Moscow, or elsewhere – can easily turn out to be important installations in Norway. This is the perspective that the defence debate must now have in the future, where members of the committee do not fly from the municipality to the municipality and promise to leave – some have already promised to go south and therefore dare not travel north – and have a dream of the old invasion defence. The cold war is over. I hope that reality will tell us about the bulk of the population, and that the pressure against the Labour Party government in these cases comes from there. Our big task is to make sure that the new challenges are taken seriously. I refer to SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e288	Kristin Halvorsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e291	Let me first thank you for a positive attitude on the Curse case, and on the other issues as well. In the light of history, it may well be «Cursk» that will be the big thing over time, because «Cursk» tradition put human beings in the focus and international policy somewhat in the background. It was about people in need, and it motivated action and willingness to overcome political problems in the way of action. For Norway, we had two of the factors that characterise our relationship with Russia: seafaring and neighbourhood. There was understanding, competence and willingness to contribute, and the people at all stages, both military and civilian, therefore deserve praise for their efforts. I'm glad that several of the posts have been published. Cooperation with the Russians has probably also strengthened the sense of good neighbourliness at many different levels, and there is no doubt that this made a great impression also on Russian opinion and many other places. So, as we know from the proposition, the action was not within the ministry's usual areas of work and budgets. We went to Stortinget with a proposal for an additional allocation, and I am pleased that the committee so unanimous ends up on it. It's always so that when it burns, we should borrow the hose to the neighbor. This should also be the case in the course of the process, and it should characterise good neighbourliness. In the case of the other two issues on the agenda, let me just make a few brief comments on it, even if strictly speaking it may not be necessary. Firstly, I agree with everything that has been said about the importance of the Coast Guard. I also agree that it would be strange if we decided early in the budget year that more money is needed here. However, we will of course follow this situation closely, so that we may come back to the Storting with the necessary proposals for adjustments, if necessary in relation to the Coast Guard's important tasks beyond the year and not least beyond the harvest. I agree with the representative Kristin Halvorsen and everyone else that the Coast Guard is a priority area, and the fact that a new large ice-reinforced vessel, if not for so long, is a sign that this assembly and several governments have been aware of it. There is surprisingly little attention to this large investment, but it is very important in relation to continuing a line with a very strong investment effort in the Coast Guard. When it comes to the relationship with the Vulnerability Committee's setting and the issues that have otherwise been dealt with in two settings, let me say that, of course, it would have been desirable if we could have had the Vulnerability Committee's setting on the Stortings table at the same time as the Defence Reform Plans. When it was not possible this time, it is because the Ministry of Justice has promised itself and the Government a broad and very nine-time review of concrete accidents, especially related to the Asta accident and the ‘Sleipner’ accident. It's a task that's so big, of some kind of calibre other than what's usually in the messages of civil protection, that it's in itself made a delay in relation to what we've seen as a desirable timetable – I think that's true of both the Minister of Justice and the undersigned. But, of course, we have had close cooperation at the level of office, and also at political level, with the Ministry of Justice in the process of the long-term defence plan. I have hurt to see, and I have the impression that this is also true of the Minister of Justice, which is in what is our priority of this task in the future, which makes this something other than a valuable resource in the work of civil society to strengthen itself in all the areas of vulnerability. So we haven't found any conflict here, and then if the Storting had to find conflicts beyond the fall, we'd get back to it. But we haven't had enough imagination to find it, despite a pretty nine-time job. And I remember what's in the long-term proposition for the defense: we're going in order that the command in North Norway is not to be destroyed like the ECN, and let it go with it. So we don't put the commanding officer in North Norway to reset it, we do it as part of a reorganization on the basis of the proposition, and then we turn the sub-state command in the north into a national crisis management command, precisely in the light of the experience we've had with "Course" and with Reitan's very good treatment of accidents and challenges in our northern areas. Then we say, as an advance on the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee, that we think it is natural to assess the defence resources in the north in the context of establishing a monitoring, preparedness and rescue centre in the northern regions, where we can then discuss whether it is the military or the civil through the main rescue centre in Bodø/Reitan that will be the leading. The important thing is to pool resources so that we can manage the challenges more effectively than before and better use of resources. I've hurt to see that this can be to push anything forward in an unfortunate way, on the contrary, it's an opening for defence resources to be used constructively, even in a civil context. Here the Minister of Justice and I fully agree, and we have worked in parallel with these issues so far. So it's true, as many have been concerned, that the Government has promised that in an appropriate form, probably in the context of the revised national budget, we will come back with a broad feedback to the Storting relative to many of the issues that have been addressed and addressed, partly in today's settings, and through several questionnaires and other forms of deleveraging up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e304	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e308	I was not really satisfied with the explanation given by the Council of State Godal as to why nothing has been said about the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee. It was pointed out that the Ministry of Justice has promised a broad review, and that this is such a big task that it was not possible to reach it before the proposal on the conversion of the defence was presented. I think it seems strange, given that the Defence Policy Selection came with its setting at the same time as the Vulnerability Selection. Then the Council of State Godal believes that the conversion of the defence is less laborious and that is a much smaller review than the Vulnerability Committee requires. I don't understand that the areas covered by the Vulnerability Committee are a larger sector of society than the defence. And I can't understand why it shouldn't be possible to do this at the same time, not least given that these are the leaders that the Storting has given throughout the 1990s, in order to deal with military and civil preparedness at the same time. So I want to ask for a further explanation as to why this wasn't possible. When the Council of State refers to the fact that there has been a slight improvement in the position of the Vulnerability Committee, it has been taken into account, that the Council of State has been in contact with each other without a comprehensive review, I think it will be a bit like this and there policy. It is clear that the defence is the only organisation that can make large teams available in a crisis situation in terms of rescue services, major accidents and major disasters, and therefore it was very important to get a treatment at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e317	I'll try another one. I think it would have been easier to get parallel treatment if we had only had as a starting point the settings of the Defence Policy Selection and the Defence Study for ours and the Vulnerability Committee's position for the Justice Department. Because that's right, as the representative Rise points out, it came in parallel. But then the Ministry of Justice and the Government have found it useful to have a broad review, both technically, legally and otherwise, of the Asta and "Sleipner" accidents, which are two very serious problem complexes where very large and specific demands are made for the follow-up to the two tragic accidents. It is another piece of work than treating civil protection in its broad public sphere. And that it takes longer in the Ministry of Justice, for my part, I have full respect for it. I have no reason to believe that you're dragging your legs in that work, doing it in a sense of responsibility to the two great human tragedies. I don't think it's so hard to understand that there's another kind of review, based on Commission reports – very thorough ones – that are different from what is isolated from the Vulnerability Committee's position, which is pretty general, and the Defence Study, which is a military analysis, along with the suspension of the Defence Policy Selection. That's the explanation -- whether you like it or not. But I repeat, we should have seen it in parallel, but there are a lot of different issues that we're talking about here. It will also be the case in the future that the resources of defence are absolutely decisive for the cooperation we are going to have in civil protection and civil vulnerability. And so it will be in the future as well, and I wouldn't say independent of the committee's consideration of that issue. I think all the parties will agree on that, and then I kind of don't understand exactly where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e324	In the light of this debate, it is clear that the bulk of the population is ready to increase the appropriations for the Coast Guard in the revised national budget, if the Government makes proposals. Will the Minister of Defence give a signal that the Coast Guard must step up its activity and that it can be replenished when the next six-month budget is placed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e329	It is here, of course, as in budgetary policy, that if the government's and the Grand Duchy's budgetary procedures are not in place, then of course we are prepared to return to the Stortning both in the revised national budget and/or, if necessary, later. But I think it's very bad budget discipline relatively quickly in the New Year to say: go ahead, use more, it's coming more! That's not how we can run budget management, even when it's good purpose out there and going. And here we all agree that the Coast Guard is a very good purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e334	I had initially not intended to interfere in the debate as Mr. Rising travelled in relation to the parallelisation of the long-term civil protection message and the long-term defence proposal. But when the answer was as it was from the Council of State, I must also allow myself to touch this. Firstly, it has been the Storting's assumption that there should be parallelity in the long-term communication, which has traditionally been for civil protection and, traditionally, long-term communication, as it has been for defence, for a four-year cycle. So we're going to record that the long-term message related to civil protection operations, stopped the defense, does not come in parallel with the proposition made by the government. So the Council of State says it's because of the Asta and "Sleipner" accidents. I guess so. These are two tragic accidents, each of which, of course, call for considerable attention, but which, at least as I see it, could have been managed separately and in a way entangled into what would be necessary measures on that side, and seen in a larger context. But stopped the wide document of the Vulnerability Committee and broad reference it seems strange to me, if I understood the Council of State correctly, what he said about the Vulnerability Committee's setting could well have been taken into account in such a message, then everything could have been done. And then they say that the Asta accident and the "Sleipner" accident made this impossible. Then I'd like to ask you, can this be right? And if it is that the Vulnerability Committee's setting could have been brought forward, why didn't you do that, so that at least it became part of the whole thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e341	I said it would have made it easier. But I do not want to stand on behalf of the Minister of Justice and say that there is absolutely the whole explanation. We also have our own phase-in of communications now in relation to what we had in mind, for the four-year cycles, which have so far taken place in a consensus between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Committee, and which we believe have been necessary and correct in order to advance the reform activities of the Defence. And I have recorded that the comments that have come from the different leading personalities of the Defence Committee have gone on that this is a proper way of doing it in relation to the needs of the Defence Committee. I'd like to pass it on to the Minister of Justice, if necessary, for a separate treatment of it – but I think it's too late for the work that's now going on – and then the Minister of Justice himself will be able to answer the various aspects of that very question. I'm now concentrating on what's our concern. And I don't think it's very strange that you have the 'Sleipner' and the 'Asta' accidents and a broad discussion of them with you in a final explanation of what you're promoting in your own notification of civil protection. I think it's a pretty logical context there, because if we looked at leaving to big messages about civil protection to be very general, without starting from a broad review of despite all two major tragedies of great importance to our ability to prevent tragedies, it might also be a little strange. But this is thinking on behalf of the Minister of Justice, and then we'll see if it holds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e348	I was not satisfied with this answer either. Now, when the Council of State refers to an understanding between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Committee, and that he rests on it and uses it almost as a justification, I think it seems strange. And I would like to ask the Council of State to explain how he can find this in accordance with the Norwegian Constitution. Is it the case that the Defence Committee has a special status with which the Ministry can reach an understanding and that there may be an independent justification for the Council of State when he comes to the Chamber? I have probably got the impression that it was also used by the Council of State when he said in his press conference that he was optimistic when it came to getting through the proposals in the Government's proposal, because he had had several meetings in the Defence Committee, and he could then use it as a reason that this looked so good. When the Council of State has now said that the Vulnerability Committee's position in itself was quite simple and could easily have been dealt with here now, I do not understand why you did not submit this at the same time. There have been two major accidents referred to, the Asta and "Sleipner" accidents, and they could have been dealt with in a separate notification if the investigation reports of these accidents were considered. The Vulnerability Committee's setting is based on the overall threat and vulnerability picture for Norway and should have been presented at the same time as the Proposition on Defence, in line with the leadership of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e357	I think the representative is probably on the road if he thinks this has something to do with the Constitution and scary things. So it's like several governments have assumed that we're going to have a cycle for the treatment of the next four-year defence. It consists in the fact that the previous government, where the representative's party was well represented, requested a positioning work from the Defence Policy Committee and a military study from the Defence Manager with a view to making a proposition to the Stortinget in the current spring session. There's nothing else I'm talking about than that. My absolute impression is that all the political comments have been that it is necessary. And if it is that it materializes a majority with a different view, it will be relatively alarming. I think there is a lot that speaks for exactly this phase of the defence reforms all the time we unfortunately face poor resource management, poor management and poor management of the enormous values that the Defense represents. And now, once and for all, we have to be clear: Where will the cabinet stand? What is the result of the Storing of binding decisions in the form of future business guidelines? It's urgent. It has been so imperative for all political parties, even if one disagrees with the content and direction, that we have taken this into account. And I guess that's what I think the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are all about. But, of course, I'm not going to pre-shoot any committee settings at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e364	I will have posts later, but I would like to take the opportunity to get answers to a specific question. The coastal preparedness committee's setting resulted in KYBAL. When you find out that «John R» is out of course for 12-14 hours and is grounded in Troms, and you see in KYBAL that the Ministry of Defence can intervene, but does not do anything – they follow the boat on the radar, but do not intervene – I have to ask: Is the Minister of Defence satisfied with the situation and follow-up of KYBAL?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e371	Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defence has no radar – there are probably many who believe that we should have had it. But it's clear we have radar stations in the Defense Service, and it's part of the work now to see if we can connect the information that comes through the Defence radar to improved preparedness and better handling. I have commented on that earlier as an absolute positive opportunity. The starting point is to use the Defence Radars a bit on the way to follow situations in retrospect through loss, through the absorption of movements that have occurred, rather than using them in an active and continuous monitoring. So that's a technical possibility, as far as I can see, not least in the northern regions. And it's obvious from the themes that are now being studied in depth with a view to making better use of defence resources as well. So I can answer affirmatively that it's a very vital topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e384	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e388	I find that the Council of State does not answer the question. It must mean that he is very dissatisfied, for if he had been satisfied, then there would have been no problem saying it. But he must be very dissatisfied with the setting for which he himself is responsible, because he does not follow up. That is the point of the proposal that we have promoted. There is no follow-up to what the Great One has decided! It is not even followed up by the Ministry of Defence itself. That's the problem. Therefore, it was necessary to focus the search on this matter. «John R» was out of course for 14 hours, and the boat was followed on Defence radar. Nothing was done from the defence side despite the fact that Stortinget has said that they are responsible for what is happening outside the ground. So it is said from this pulpit that there is a wide parliamentary selection to work on this matter. Yeah, I wonder if that's the case. As far as I know, through my contacts, there is no work at present in this field. There has been a government conference that I know about, where a few million dollars were allocated to clean up pollution and further considered extending the limit to 12 nautical miles. It's the only thing available today. We have a long and vulnerable coast, as has been said from several teams here from the pulpit. We have oil transport, which is now to be increased, from Russia and down along the coast. I think everyone in this room understands what it means if a tanker of 200,000 tons goes on land on the Finnmark coast, in Troms or Nordland or anywhere. Then we pave the coast with soft asphalt! And I see clearly that both Godal and the representative Røssjorde are going to put up in oil huts and clean up afterwards, which is kind of what is the instrument. We're going to clean up later! I don't think they know what they're talking about! I'm sorry, but I strongly doubt judgment. And not to talk about if a ship with nuclear waste aboard comes up the coast and goes down, what do we do? Should we clean it up afterwards as well? I imagine the gentlemen mentioned earlier in special equipment cleaning up nuclear pollution! No, there must be other measures, and we have the means, and we have the possibilities – it is only a matter of will and decision making. We can't just push and push at this for years without following up the decisions that the people of this country demand us to do, and that we elected to do. The Committee has also, in this case, pushed the decision and is to wait for an investigation to be carried out. There are investigations on the table. The Coastal Management Committee's configuration was completed a long time ago. The defense has made its own investigation, and there are the lines clear. It is not followed up! Was it not much easier to give a message to the Ministry of Defence that is responsible: Start and do the job – here is the money that is needed! Then there had been determination in this house. I sat here one day and I figured out that there are ten different departments dealing with coastal surveillance. We have 1,000 ports, and we have 55 customs stations. It is absurd to control food that goes beyond the borders of Sweden, while nothing is done in the 1000 ports. What about all the food on board those boats that come from land with both foot-and-mouth disease and jealousy? This is no one thinking about it. And when you talk about the coast, it's kind of like you're talking about a wall. Fantasy here is not far off the coast. No, the look is constantly fixed inwards. That's completely wrong. I wonder if it's just people out on the coast who understand this. I wonder. We have the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health, which are responsible for making sure that we are safe here in the country, also on the outskirts of the coast. Who is coordinating this? After New Year's, we've had all the state councils here on the carpet. Here they have stood and demonstrated that no one has an overview of this. They have been here and misinformed the Storting several times after that and say they have full control. One government council comes and says the other against it. It's one thing I think it's amazing that the other big parties here in Stortinget haven't got hold of. I accept that my party is small, and that there is only one representative of my party here, but this is a matter of misinformation by Stortinget! And no one discovers it. I would recommend that the Committee both read the questions and read the answers relating to this matter, and then it would be discovered. But maybe you know that and don't care? I guess that's what's most likely. We have just implemented the Schengen Agreement. Who's going with the coast? We have a limit over and over too! There are three vessels, from Rørvik to the Swedish border, which are supposed to be on our long coast. The MTB weapon that could have been a tool, we put it down. We can't afford that. But we're going to build shooting grounds in the outcrop up in the Oesterdalen to maybe a billion or two. We can afford that! But having boats that can monitor the coast and take care of the values that we're going to live on in the future, we can't afford. I guess we've got enough shooting range. We can shoot as much as we like on Bluetooth and Mauken, so what are we going to do with this shooting field up in the Østerdalen? It is the values of the sea that will ensure Norway’s prosperity in the future. We need an upbound marine, we need an upbound coastguard. We have a sea area that is seven times the mainland of Norway, and then we're going to lay it down! We have a coastline that, if you stretch it out, goes from here to Equator – and we're going down. It's totally incredible to me that comes from the coast and has lived by the sea all along. But when you get on land and on wheels, it's really nice stuff. People are killed every day on Norwegian roads. We've been protected from major shipwrecks. In relation to all coastal traffic, a very limited number of lives are lost on the coast. It's unfortunate that it's happening at all, because it wasn't going to happen. But if we get a disaster of such magnitude as it would have been if a supertanker or a ship with nuclear waste were to land, then it's no use talking about us cleaning up afterwards. It just doesn't mean that people who are supposed to represent the depth of the people have such an attitude. I'll tell you one thing: people in the districts are shaken by these attitudes. The Committee shall receive a small point from me, on the basis of what they have said in the opinion that ‘it is expected that the Government will inform the Government of the outcome of the work as soon as possible’. Yes, I expect that too, and not only do I expect it, but the whole coastal community expects something to happen. I want to take old Aldor Ingebrichtsen's words in my mouth: I stand here as a drain pipe for what is moving in the interior of the coastal people. Here, there is no understanding of the importance of preserving and caring for the vulnerable areas we have when it is not possible to make a decision that we should follow up the settings and decisions that have already been taken. That's the jam produced paper enough! That's not what's missing. There's a lack of decision, there's a refusal of decision. And we're not moneyless. We're stacking billions. We're about to have a thousand billions on foreign funds, on stock exchanges that are wailing, and we don't know when they end up. And then we put down what's going to take care of the vital interests of the nation. It's unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e411	The tragedy that has spread in the Barents Sea in connection with the fact that the Russian submarine «Kursk» crashed last August has already been commented on by several speakers, but as the case-law rapporteur I would like to make a few comments on the matter. When such a situation arises at sea, fortunately, and not least for a maritime nation such as Norway, tradition of, and of course, getting to the site of the accident as soon as possible and providing the assistance it is possible to provide. The accident and the request for assistance were an emergency that required an immediate decision. The Ministry of Defence undertook the management task, as the defence has the necessary competence for such a task. An overall committee will commend civil and military personnel involved for excellent efforts. The planning and management of the rescue operation was otherwise carried out by the Defence Command North Norway. But there's also every reason to recognise the British and Norwegian divers who actually did the job. The rescue action therefore required a rapid action by the Norwegian authorities and could not, of course, be foreseen within normal budgetary frameworks. The action cost 19.4 million. kr. The budgets of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2000 have been settled and charged with equal shares. To this end, the Committee agrees and recommends that the two departments which have been charged with expenditure in their ordinary budgets be protected by additional compensatory appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e424	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e427	That was basically for Mr. Bastesen, who fired some broadsides – I'd like to think with a mixture of bulky powder and projectiles that don't have a completely correct path. Once the Committee has promoted this position as Mr. The bastese sablers down repressively, just enough with a slight exception, I understand so far that Mr. The bastese would like to have a result immediately. And that's right, as Mr. Bastesen says that there have been samples in work that have pointed to a number of solutions in this area, and so there should be no need for more paper investigations. That's in itself a good point of view. What's important is now to place the responsibility in one place, and you'll be able to accept that it'll take some time. But it's an impatient committee that says that now you have to park the responsibility somewhere, figure out what this ultimately costs, and who should be responsible. And if it's the case that the defense is going to have a total coordination, then I want – I assume that the representative Bastesen is also interested in – that the bill comes to the right table and that you pay for it. Then that's right, as Mr. The Bastisen says it's hardly the total economy it's all about. But if Mr. The Bastisen claims that it is possible to monitor and regulate itself away from all sorts of hazards and accidents, then I ask myself: Why do ships go on a time-to-time scale? Can we manage to avoid it completely? Or do you mean, sir? The Bastisen still says that there's something called the captain's responsibility? It is even possible to sink at berth! I want to point out that if society invested all the world's resources, it can happen at any rate by accident. Then you have to be prepared for it. That's what I was trying to underline. Sir. The Bastisen claims that what I and others have said is that it is not so dangerous if something happens if we only have a standby so that we can dry up afterwards. The excellent picture has, sir. The Bastisen signed by me and possibly others, in related equipment. That could be a good picture. But my point is that you have to do both, and that there has to be a cost-effective assessment of this, otherwise you just have to take the consequences and ban sailing. At least then you are absolutely sure that nothing wrong is happening. But I assume that's not what the Bastisen meant. It needs a balance to – and targeted effort. If things were to go wrong anyway, you also have to be prepared for it. I guess that's just supposed to be missing. Or does the Bastisen think it's completely wasted having a readiness to catch things that had to go wrong? I ask, what is the responsibility of a master? And what responsibility does a shipping company have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e438	I understand that Røss soils do not need so much to pull into oil huts and clean up the oil pollution. He'll let others do it. I agree with Mr Røssorde. I'm absolutely concerned about pollution, and that we're going to have a proper preparedness. There are probably few others here in this room who have talked more about just oil pollution and preparedness, especially on the oil platforms. I have repeatedly pointed out how poor the preparedness is. So there's no contradiction between making sure to monitor the coast and having a proper oil protection system, because we have far too poor oil protection in general. As regards the skipper's responsibility: of course a skipper has responsibility. But if an engine stops, you get a mechanical breakdown, then it's no longer the skipper's responsibility. Who, then, is responsible? That is when we are going to have the opportunity to intervene and take care of the ship and get it away from land, so that it does not pollute and become a disaster for both the Red Earth and the Godal and for me and for the whole Storting! That's what this is about. It is not the skipper's responsibility. I don't have to teach Røssorde what is the skipper's responsibility. Røssorde knows that as well as I do. He doesn't have to ask about it, because I know it's the skipper. But that's the case where the skipper can't do anything, we're going to have to get ready for it. And we have to have a system so that we can capture the cases where it's about to happen a major disaster. That's what the defense has authority to do. The defence must only do the job that they have assigned themselves to. KYBAL makes it clear what they're dealing with. And the defense is today responsible for what's going on outside the base line. It doesn't have to be investigated. It's just to start and do the job. So I hope the representative Røss soil is satisfied with my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e447	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. Two, three, four. [[Footing, see page 2374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e455	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e473	Here the Progress Party has notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e501	Here the Progress Party has notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e541	During the debate, Mr Halvorsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal, which reads: ‘The 2001 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town Purpose:Croner1790Coastal guard1Operating expenditure, increased by 50 000 000from NOK 553 473 000 to NOK 603 473 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-22.ana.ud2636e678	There is no record available.
