ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. We know, of course, that this cabinet has unfortunately broken all the immigration and asylum records that exist. This has left our society with an enormous wave of crime. Asylum seekers are robbing our cities and villages. We are seeing the most shocking rape cases involving perpetrators from Somalia, Syria or Sudan, and there is also a great deal of violence in and around asylum seekers' centres. De Telegraaf recently managed to get figures about all this misery out of the water after long stretches. Among other things, in the first nine months of last year, 20,000 foreigners were arrested by the police and nearly 10,000 foreigners were suspected of committing a criminal offence. Those figures have been known for a long time, but strangely enough they have never been provided by the Cabinet before, even after repeated questions from the PVV about these problems. Why have these figures been kept under review for so long is my first question. Of course, it is even more important to address the problem. The information released showed that it prevents criminal asylum seekers from being prosecuted and thus simply get away with their misconduct. How is this possible? Of course, this must never happen. Furthermore, a complete asylum stop must finally be put in place, so that the import of insecurity will stop. Last but not least, criminal foreigners should always be removed from the Netherlands after serving their sentence. On that very point, despite a lot of nice talk, the cabinet has virtually nothing to do with it. This Secretary of State even chooses to place harassing asylum seekers in a separate reception centre with extra guidance, rather than expel them from the country. That's incomprehensible. I would like to comment on all these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. That gives me the opportunity to put things right, above all, I have to say honestly. Some of Mr Fritsma's issues are simply not correct. He's asking why those numbers weren't given. I sent the latest incident monitor to the Chamber in April. There wasn't much interest in that, but I did send him. It contains a complete picture of all incidents. This gives a much broader picture than the figures now provided to De Telegraaf via a WOB request. In addition, Mr Fritsma talks about 10,000 foreigners and links that number to asylum seekers. I'm assuming he wouldn't have asked me the question. However, these 10,000 are all foreigners, i.e. asylum seekers, status holders, regular residents and also tourists in Amsterdam who have gone wrong and been arrested. The picture here should not be sketched as if it were asylum seekers who are responsible for the high numbers. Furthermore, in recent years, policies have focused on a firm approach and on transparency in this area. That's why every six months we send a complete overview of reports from both police and COA, even at the level of an asylum seeker covering a fire alarm, which doesn't belong either. That's what we reported to the Chamber. I would use these summaries to conduct the discussion, because they have been very carefully drawn up and give a full picture. Together with local government, we have focused on the question of what additional measures can be applied to criminal law to reduce nuisances. We have accelerated asylum procedures for people from safe countries who cause more than average nuisance. We have been able to speed up the Dublin procedures so that they can be sent back to Germany, Italy or any other country in which they are registered. We have denied shelter to safe people who are not covered by Dublin, we have put people in alien custody earlier, we have stopped and reduced financial return support and we have the bar to refuse someone for asylum or even to withdraw the asylum permit after someone has been convicted by the judge, which means that we can do so earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	So much for the theory, now the practice. The same lists sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber show that only nine foreigners were expelled to the country of origin for crimes committed over the last year; nine! That's a shockingly low number. This Secretary of State says that things are going so well in dealing with these problems. The practice is tough. The practice is that he has made the Netherlands a paradise for criminal strangers. Almost all criminal aliens are allowed to stay here. In fact, the Secretary of State has made it a policy to even give criminal asylum seekers a residence permit. Only if they've been in prison for six months or more will he refuse the asylum permit. Can you imagine? If an asylum seeker comes to the Netherlands and commits a crime and goes to prison for five and a half months, the Secretary of State is ready with a residence permit. How can he defend this injustice? As far as that information is concerned, the following. The fact remains that the PVV year in, year out, asked about crime among migrants and asylum seekers. The answer is always: it is not registered independently. What happens after the election? 2,000 pages of these problems are sent to De Telegraaf and to the Chamber. This is probably good for the cabinet after the elections, but the Secretary of State should not justify this case, he better apologize. After all, this has been kept under wraps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	What Mr Fritsma is saying here is complete nonsense. It has nothing to do with the election. Before the elections, I started providing those lists, which contain all the incidents. So that gives a much broader picture. I've done that three times. I didn't do it because I became popular with it, but because I think people in the Netherlands have the right to know what the facts are. There is still no national overview of whether a person is a stranger and what his background is. However, it records whether someone is a foreigner in the broad category, from asylum seeker to tourist. What was given to De Telegraaf by the police is fine. These are the figures of a limited period of time when it comes to the problem of shaping the better approach that I have just mentioned and which we have also set up. I find it strange that Mr Fritsma says that it is bad that few people are so criminal that their residence permits have been withdrawn. It is precisely the intention that people should not be criminal and should not go in such a way as to impose that sanction. Furthermore, for the residence permit you are not judged by how you behaved. It may be a condition not to grant the residence permit, but it looks at whether someone is a refugee. If someone isn't a refugee, they won't get an asylum permit anyway. If he is and he's wrong, we'll add up all the suspended sentences and different sentences. Even community service, we're counting on the value of a time sentence. If it adds up to six months, we will refuse or withdraw the residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	With all due respect, these are non-answers. Only nine aliens have been evicted throughout the last year. That is because the Secretary of State even gives asylum seekers who have been in prison for five months a residence permit. Why doesn't he just admit it? Isn't it inexplicable that he even gives criminal asylum seekers a residence permit? Those are the facts. I see I'm running out of time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	You've been through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Furthermore, I find it strange that the Secretary of State is correct, ranging from granting residence permits to criminals to the point that these 2,000 pages of facts are given to the Chamber only after the elections. The Secretary of State should opt for the interest of the Dutch citizen, not for the continuation of mass immigration, not for a situation in which he allows foreigners to do their thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	They're facts. The fact that they are non-answers says more about the wishes behind Mr Fritsma's questions. A lot more than nine criminal aliens have been deported. We also publish this monthly on the website. The low number may be related to the fact that this measure for lowering the threshold for withdrawal started last year. Then you should not come up with figures of the old situation and say that the policy is not working. That is precisely what we have strengthened and strengthened in the interests of Dutch society. There are many more foreigners with criminal backgrounds being evicted than Mr Fritsma suggests here. We publish that every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has relied on all kinds of facts. I would like to know whether what the article in De Telegraaf revealed is factually correct. Are people not being prosecuted for crimes because this would stand in the way of expulsion? Wouldn't it be better to always go to prosecution and then possibly have expulsion followed? Is it true that this expulsion prevents people from being prosecuted for crimes committed in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Not categorically. There is no policy not to prosecute. Per individual, the DA and the Service will compare return and leave their files. Then it may be that someone is deportable, but will be prosecuted for something heavy. Then it can be decided not to do the eviction and go to prosecution. You can also in theory imagine in practice quite easily that someone for fairly minor offences is registered with the D.A., for example shoplifting. If we have a Dublin claim, we have to choose between prosecuting someone for the shoplifting, after which you have drawn him to you as the Netherlands and he stays here after his punishment, or using the time span we have and making sure that person leaves Dutch society. Then we'd probably be better off than if we'd kept him here and punished him for the minor offense. We are trying to find a way to get these two things to go together, but in practice it can prevent society from being better off with rapid expulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	I was disappointed when I read that the police have been complicated in providing that data. An explanation was given later, but it did not take away my disappointment. I would like to move on to Mrs Buitenweg's question. The article states that part of it is not expelled for prosecution. Can the Secretary of State address today, or perhaps later extensively in writing, the question in which situations this is happening? The frustration of many police officers is precisely that there is a choice not to prosecute for possible expulsion, but that the expulsion does not end. Then it goes wrong twice, Mr. Chairman. You and I will also be thrown on the ticket and prosecuted if we go wrong, and that should certainly apply to people who are strangers in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	I share Mrs Keijzer's disappointment. The police had initially been in line with the transparency we are using. Therefore, I should also publish the figures every time. Then it would immediately have been clear that they show the same image as the figures I sent to the Chamber every time. I will also look into the extent to which I can give Mrs Keijzer more insight into the considerations that are being made. There are no policies in which we see that. The result of Mrs Keijzer is indeed the doom scenario. You shouldn't have that. The standard is prosecution. An exception can be made if society is better off with expulsion, but this expulsion must follow. I'll see if I can give you more details on that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	I can imagine that the answer given by the Secretary of State to the questions will give the public the impression that this is being greatly downplayed. I assume that the Secretary of State is applying or making appropriate use of the resources available. But then we have a problem with the imagery. My question is twofold. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for intervening on the apparently misrepresentation that arises? Does the Secretary of State indeed consider that the instruments available to the executive bodies are sufficient to deal adequately with and wave out criminal aliens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I have tried from the outset to prevent this kind of imagery by being very open about incidents, even about incidents that were later asked of me: should we know this at this level? This was true not only for the police but also for the COA, otherwise you will hear sounds like: the police have something, but in the center things also happen that are not criminal but very annoying. The policy was aimed at being transparent and reporting incidents to the Chamber rather than not. This has led to my finding that the instruments could be tightened up. This is what we have done with the Chamber over the past year. I think that the instruments are now sufficient, but we still need to step up at local level if there is a problem that we have no experience of before. We are also aware of that. Then we must quickly provide assistance and tell them what instruments and possibilities we have so that we can help the local triangle to combat nuisance and problems with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	In my view, the Chamber cannot blame the Secretary of State for not being proactive in informing the Chamber about incidents involving asylum seekers. For the VVD it is very clear: criminal asylum seekers must be expelled as much as possible. There are two procedures, one expulsion procedure and one criminal procedure, which are separate. I also do not think that they should be mixed together. Eventually, in the individual case, the assessment is made whether eviction prevails above here in prison at the expense of the taxpayer. Our country will benefit from the expulsion of these people as quickly as possible. One of the instruments that can be applied is the detention of aliens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	There is a debate in Europe about whether a person who has committed a criminal offence can be placed in the custody of aliens under that title. That's tricky. What effort is the Secretary of State making on this issue? In what time does he expect to achieve results in this respect so that we can put people in custody if they have committed a criminal offence and can also expel them, as we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	We have recently been looking in the space that is now available in the regulations to see how far we can go with the foreign detention. We are making greater use of this now than before. In addition, Mr Azmani is right to say that we are still hampered by a few words in European legislation. We are constantly bringing into the discussions on the various European arrangements and systems related to asylum that this also needs to be adapted. We do that consistently. It is true that this wide-ranging discussion is rather complicated and will not soon lead to agreement. This is part of that. So, unfortunately, I cannot predict that we will get this settled very quickly, also because many other countries do not experience the same problem. This always helps to obtain support. But we consistently argue in the discussion that we believe that this point should also be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. Let's move on to the next round of questions.
