ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	Madam President. The D.A.'s office brings far fewer cases to the criminal court than it did ten years ago. This is partly due to good news, namely that crime has fallen in the Netherlands. At the same time, we read that in 2016 the prosecution dismissed more than twice as many cases as in 2007. That raises questions. The obvious question, of course, is what type of crime is involved. What are the reasons for the dismissal? One of the reasons may be the abolition of the police depot, but if you correct the figures on it, it still turns out that there is a lot more being dismissed by the prosecution than before. 4% of the cases were suspended on parole. That raises the question of what this means for the principle that those who deserve punishment will also be punished and vice versa that those who are wrongly accused will also be exempt from conditions imposed by the Public Prosecutor and thus not by the courts. In view of the high number of sepots, I would also ask the Minister to reflect on a report from the Police College from 2011, entitled Legal Knowledge and the Minutes. One of the respondents stated that "nine of the 10 minutes submitted to the quality office cannot pass the critical test and therefore return to the original unit." Is this, therefore, the poor quality of the minutes, also one of the causes of the high number of sepots?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg commented on the figures of the Central Bureau of Statistics, which became known this week, on the number of sepots. These are figures that correspond to the figures I sent to the Chamber last summer in the context of annual reporting on the criminal justice chain. This shows that in about 20% of cases there is a separation, i.e. the waiver of prosecution. First of all, Mrs Buitenweg asks why this is now twice as high as in 2007 and points out one of the statements. Since 2012, the police no longer decide whether to prosecute, but the Public Prosecutor's Office does. The comparison with 2007 is therefore not entirely pure. The 20% currently reported is a figure corresponding to that of recent years. I do not want to suggest that there are no good questions about this percentage and the quality of detection. Mrs Buitenweg does the same. As the Chamber knows, a programme of re-examination has been launched, as several signals have given reason in recent years to consider whether improvements could be made there. Ms Buitenweg also referred to a 2011 report that played a role in this. I think it is wise, on the basis of these figures, which, once again, can be explained to some extent well, to carry out an in-depth investigation. I would like to know more precisely what the structure of the sepots is, but also of the cases where prosecution is taking place, in order to ultimately feed the quality improvement in the criminal justice chain that we have already put in place. So I am not satisfied with the explanations that we can now give in part. I really want to have an additional study on the level of these figures and whether improvements can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm very pleased with this in-depth investigation. I have a number of questions that I think you can answer in more depth. This is information that I have not yet been able to get out of the figures, but which I am sure you have. For example, it's about the police squad. As you said, that is one of the causes, but it is not an adequate explanation. The specific question I am asking is: if the figures are corrected, do you have an idea of the amount of sepots we are talking about? A number of sepots that would otherwise have been done by the police have now been done by the D.A.'s office. If the figures are corrected, will there still be a significant increase in the number of deposits? For the rest, I would like to point out that you are going to look explicitly at the quality of the minutes and to what extent this is a reason for the high number of sepots. That seems important to me. Do you agree with Professor Buruma of the Supreme Court that the law of the police should be increased? Are you also going to look at conditional sepots and what it means to those who get a sepot against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes. On the last point: the increase in conditional dismissals is not necessarily worrying, because a conditional dismissal means that the prosecutor imposes conditions on the defendant. For example, he may require that a behavioral course be followed or that compensation be paid. This means that action is being taken which can also work preventively. There may be underlying factors. Let me give you a few examples. Is the legal knowledge of cops up and running? What part of the 20% is explained by the fact that the police can no longer decide on sepot, as this is done exclusively by the Public Prosecutor's Office? I really want an in-depth investigation, because the subject is too important not to go further. Then we can also take targeted measures. We have also talked about this before in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think that will depend on my colleague's speaking time. Isn't it? Can I give you one more response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Of course. You have one minute left, but you don't have to talk that minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	I won't. Here's what I want to say about the conditional dismissal. I understand perfectly well that it's a way for the D.A. to impose conditions. So it's also a leverage. It is also possible that someone has not done something, because in the end a case has not yet been brought to justice. We see the tendency for the prosecution to go more and more into criminal matters. Of course, that's what you can see in the ZSM procedures. What effect does the conditional dismissals have on the right of suspects to a judge's test, which concerns the extent to which they have been found guilty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Every Dutchman has access to justice. If someone does not agree with a settlement submitted or a parole notice, because he is convinced of his innocence that is best known to that person I would say: go to court. Again: that does not alter the fact that these figures, although they are not entirely new, do give rise to a number of questions. A number of questions have rightly been raised by Mrs Buitenweg. So I will also ensure that the inquiry is shared with the Chamber and that, where necessary, there are consequences, but I fear that this will not happen until the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	This theme is not new in itself. I remember that the Court of Auditors has also sometimes sent us recommendations in which he has called for more streamlining between, on the one hand, the work done by the national police and, on the other hand, the work subsequently provided to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to avoid duplication and to avoid sin work, which is ultimately done for nothing. What happened to that recommendation? If that is not sufficiently clear, can it be taken into account in the investigation which the Minister has already promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Van Oosten is right that it is not entirely new. I also referred to the earlier investigations that were shared with the Chamber and to the re-examination programme. I have reason to believe that it may indeed have something to do with the connection between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mrs Buitenweg mentioned the legal knowledge, but there really is a procedural question behind it. How does data get there? Does the automation fit well? I'd like to get a clearer picture of that. As a result, I hereby announce that I will continue to investigate this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	We have rightly heard the Minister say: the figures are not new. I have already drawn attention to this in the budget, and I am therefore pleased with this in-depth research. I hear the Minister say that we can get an explanation of the figures and see what improvements we will have to make, but I did not hear him talk about the cause or cause of these figures. Are they included in that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes, of course. If you want to be able to make improvements, you need to know what the explanation is. I think everyone realizes that sepot is an important jurisdiction of a prosecutor, because, considering everything, there may also be a reason why it is concluded not to prosecute or not to prosecute under conditions, the parolee. At the same time, this work is so important that we must remain very critical of the way the criminal justice chain works and the connection between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office takes place. For this reason, because the figures before us are not entirely new, I really want a further deepening, to look at causes, and Mrs Helder is right to be able to make improvements where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Second supplementary question, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	One of these reasons, as far as my group is concerned, is the recurring demand from the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. two crucial elements of the criminal justice chain, in order to add some more money. We can talk here about better connection and better knowledge of the law and so on, but it is very easy to place the ball with the police, at least as far as my group is concerned. As far as my group is concerned, one of the reasons is the lack of money. Could the Minister give a reflection on that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have often done so in the direction of Mrs Helder and the Chamber, along the line that fortunately my ministry has been given more money in the 2017 budget and that this issue will undoubtedly be on the table in the meetings that are currently taking place. But it is therefore up to a missionary cabinet to take follow-up decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	One in five crime cases is dismissed. In the end, nothing happens to that. This is partly due to the cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the lack of capacity. Can the Minister imagine what it's doing to cops, to detectives, to victims of crime if nothing happens to those cases? Can the Minister imagine that? What's he gonna do about this, besides the research that's interesting in itself? What's he gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Van Nispen draws a conclusion that is for the time being on his own account, because he has not seen any research. He says, "Situation of 20% is the result of austerity." Another figure known to Mr Van Nispen is that the influx into the Public Prosecutor's Office has declined in recent years. Fortunately, many forms of crime are falling in the Netherlands and this is also reflected in the number of cases brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office. I find it impure that Mr Van Nispen makes that connection so easily, and I would ask him to take a critical look with me and with the other Members of Parliament at the research I am announcing. His other question is whether I realize what it does to all those involved when there is no prosecution. Of course, but be careful. Mr Van Nispen will also agree with me that it is very important for the prosecutor to be able to decide whether to dismiss him. Eventually, not everyone is guilty of arraignment, or there may be another reason to make the decision to dismiss. But I share the curiosity of Mr Van Nispen and others here: it is in the interests of the victims, of the agents who have worked hard on it, of the officers who have worked hard on it and in the interests of safety in society that we get a more precise picture of whether that 20% is an acceptable percentage or whether we can really make an improvement in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Another in-depth investigation while we have already had a report from the General Court. There has been a programme to strengthen criminal justice chain performance. The Attorney General at the Supreme Court has already examined the criminal order once. There are all kinds of investigations, recently the re-evaluation of the search. You can fill a whole bookshelf. But can I now make a specific suggestion to the Minister and ask him a question? For some time now, the Ministry has had the bill for improving police performance. This has been dealt with in the Lower House and the Minister can submit it to the Upper Chamber and then there really is a huge administrative burden from the shoulders of a lot of policemen. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'm willing to deal with any bill in the First Chamber, but I'm dependent on the treatment rate across the street before the end date. I'm eager to treat every law I can still treat as a outgoing minister.
