ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog, and the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the members of the CDA Group would like to congratulate the initiators on this initiative legislative proposal. That is quite a job and it is good that it has already come to this point that the treatment in the First Chamber is in the final stage. Compliments to all of you. This initiative proposal proposes the inclusion in Article 51 of the Primary Education Act of the funding of religious and philosophical education. Humanist education and religious education aim to further deepen philosophical or religious education of children in public (special) schools at the request of their parents. This education is provided by organizations on a spiritual basis and not by the school. The public and special public primary schools act as hosts, but are not responsible for the content of the lessons. Since the beginning of 1800 years that is more than 200 years ago; to be precise, it was 1806, still under the Batavian Republic; this is from the explanatory statement, so I thank the initiators for this, which is always legally anchored by successive governments. Today, Articles 50 and 51 of the Primary Education Act provide for the possibility for pupils to receive educational education (HVO) or religious education (GVO) within the school hours, given by teachers appointed by churches or other legal persons for the purpose of giving such education. Until 2009, this education was financed either by municipal grants.... the municipalities were not obliged to do so and those subsidies gradually decreased.... or on the basis of voluntary fees. In December 2008, the House of Representatives decided to make available from the budget for OCW EUR 10 million per year through a subsidy for the funding of this education, with the desire to create a structural form of funding, and in particular to provide the teachers concerned with a salary in accordance with the level of the class teachers. In addition, teachers who teach these lessons also have to comply with the Law on Occupations in Education (Law BIO), making the old form of funding virtually unfeasible. Since 2009, this sector has received EUR 10 million a year, which is cost-effective. Without going into further detail about history, it can be said that the House of Representatives has repeatedly expressed itself in a large majority in favour of making the funding of this form of education more structural. The CDA's First Parliamentary Group likes to go along with that. Making a law possible does not, however, mean that there is an obligation to provide philosophical education or religious education in public schools. There's got to be an interest in it. Here's the adage: what you don't know, you don't miss. Parents and children need to know that this education can be followed, after which they can freely decide whether or not they see added value in this. That is why we are pleased that by means of the Bishop's amendment (34246), part No. 14) that this possibility should be included in the school guide. However, this may have the effect of increasing interest. In the response of this initiative proposal, the initiators state that they expect that by 2025 instead of the current 10 million, 15 million will be needed for the salary of teachers. The members of the CDA Group would like to hear from the initiators whether this initiative legislative proposal is sufficiently secure that this amount will therefore be available. In the reply of the Secretary of State during the plenary session in the House of Representatives, from which we have all too well understood that the Secretary of State is not in favour of this proposal, it has been decided that he considers that the financing of indexation and other growth is not covered and that there is no additional money available for this. I'd like a response from the initiators and the State Secretary. Looking at history, philosophical education and religious education in public schools have been part of our Dutch tradition for over 200 years. If we want to continue to do so, the CDA Group wants us to do so, as a government, we have a responsibility to continue to do so. This proposed legal anchoring of funding offers this form of education and the education sector itself more security and continuity than an annual subsidy. However, the members of the CDA Group are not entirely satisfied with the intended financial security. We are waiting for the answer. I cannot tell you how it should be regulated, but if the problem does not arise in other sectors of education, I cannot imagine why it should occur in this form of education. In my view, funding follows demand. In addition, by making it regular, this form of education is prevented from being called into question every four years. In accordance with Article 3b of the rules on the granting of grants by the Minister of Education, Culture and Science (Law on other OCW grants), an education grant should not be awarded for more than four years in succession. This means that a subsidy which has a structural function cannot be based solely on a subsidy. The CDA Group therefore considers it justified that the funding of religious and philosophical education of the state should be included in Article 51 of the Law on Primary Education. And if the government does, if it considers something like a "right" for public schools and parents, then the government also has an expensive duty to make this possible. It's part of our values in the Netherlands. It can increase understanding and respect for people who, within the limits of the law, live differently and think differently. In conclusion. The CDA Group wholeheartedly supports this initiative proposal and looks forward to answering the questions it has put.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ypma and Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog on the work they have done to bring this proposal to this House. They have developed a proposal that puts an end to an imperfection in the Law on Primary Education, an imperfection which does allow parents to apply for religion and education within public education, but which does not clearly regulate its funding. Where this could lead to, it turned out in 2013 when the government came up with proposals to cut down on religious education (GVO). That was easy, because there was only a subsidy relationship. The House of Representatives managed to prevent this austerity and I suspect that this led members Ypma and Voordewind to decide to include the funding in the Law on Primary Education. The D66 Group welcomes the initiative proposal. Parents' right to ask for a GVO in public education was long ago stated by Mrs de Vries: 200 years ago, she was incorporated into the law. It is enshrined in the Primary Education Act in Article 50, which states that the competent authority of a public school must allow its pupils to receive separate lessons about a specific religion or belief within the school hours. That is a right that fits within the framework of Article 23 of our Constitution, in which the freedom of education is uniquely regulated and which describes the position of public education not as neutral but as reflecting parents' beliefs. In this context, it surprised the D66 Group that the group chairman of the Christian Union in the Lower House considered it necessary to question the position of public education by calling the government "from time." He did not mention that the vast majority of public education, which, moreover, covers only 25% of the entire education system, now consists of administrations that are remote from the government and therefore actually resemble the many foundations that exist within special education and form the administration there. But perhaps it was his intention, now that it is 100 years after the educational pace, to question the whole of Article 23 of the Constitution and to adapt it to the demands of time. You don't hear that very often from the Christian community. D66 would like to enter into this discussion. In particular, we believe that the possibility of parents setting up schools for educational and teaching reasons, in addition to the possibilities of changing denominational colours, deserves further attention. I would like a response from the initiators and in particular from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u5	I was expecting it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u6	It is not yet an entrapment which Mr Pijlman brings to this House. I am not going to risk an exegesis of what Members of Parliament are saying now, in the election campaign, but I think we can all agree that the majority of primary education in the Netherlands is special education. I am surprised how many pleas can be read in certain respects at this time for the abolition of special education. I think that the honourable Member and I can agree to appreciate the education that is now available and not simply make all kinds of new proposals for renewal where things work well. After all, what problem do we tackle? I am referring in particular to the elimination of special education; I sometimes hear such sounds from D66 circles too. I would like to know what Mr Pijlman thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u7	At least I did not mention this in my speech and Mrs Bikker will not find this point in the D66 election programme either. Nor were we the ones who actually called Article 23 into question. But if you question the administration of public education, and with that the character as originally laid down in Article 23, I think you are questioning the whole system. Once again, I am not questioning anything, but if we want to discuss this with each other, there are a few points I have just mentioned which I would like to bring into the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u8	One of the points that I consider to be very important, one which I believe is also relevant to this legislative proposal, let's just say that the school is the parent's, but above all that it is the parent's child. Parents should be able to send their children to any school with good faith. In a public school, parents should therefore also be able to demand that the child receive the education and that they can raise the child in an identity that suits those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mrs Bikker supports my speech. I understand that she would also like to enter into the discussion with her group chairman in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u10	That is also Mrs Bikker's entrapment, Mr Pijlman. One more comment, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u11	Then we just didn't understand each other properly. That is precisely the reason why we should talk again outside this debate. I think I am underlining exactly what the group chairman said across the street, but I am not going to do exegesis of what Members of Parliament say there. I would like to confine myself to the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u12	I suggest we rent a room. The D66 Group, where we find each other, attaches great importance to religious education in public education. Public education is by its very nature integral. In addition to general religious education, this is an addition for parents who opt for the public school on principle, but also consider it important to offer more specific expressions of GVO space. It makes public education richer and we very much welcome it. The proposal now provides for the possibility of GVO to be addressed in the school guide. This has been included in the House of Representatives by amendment, and that is absolutely necessary. With parents, the possibility is not always known. I would like to know from the proposers how they want to raise awareness of this right of parents, perhaps through the Service Centre. The proposal before us is quite bald. Group size, competence requirements and finance must be filled in later by a General Measure of Board which I assume will be submitted to the Chambers. Can the initiators explain to me why they chose this bald law and did not include these points in the law so that we cannot include them in the consideration now? The present proposal also provides a certain level of protection to the staff and perspective to students for this course. This is also to be commended in the initiative. Is it true, moreover, that continuing training of teachers is now secured by the Act on Occupations in Education and is being taken over by the Service Centre? I'd like a response from the initiators. Finally, perhaps the most important point for this afternoon, namely funding. This proposal currently involves EUR 10 million. That's not new money, it's existing grant money. It is difficult for the initiators to determine what the future will bring; I am very aware of that. On the one hand, the CSR suffers from shrinking and on the other hand, better information can be expected to increase. In addition, salaries, including those of these teachers, should, of course, be indexed. The Secretary of State stated that he did not see room for this in the Lower House, which limits the feasibility of this proposal. In 2008, the Chamber already declared itself in favour of structural funding for the CSR. In 2013, the State Secretary made an attempt to cut back on the CSR, which was prevented by the Chamber. Now, in 2017, with this proposal, which I expect will also receive broad support in this house, legal funding will be regulated. I now assume that the cabinet is generously and sportingly implementing the proposal and making available the necessary indexation and possible additional resources through growth for enlargement, as is normally the case in education. We are talking about very modest amounts. The authors certainly do not ask about it. They have also introduced new restrictions, back from three to one hour, into the proposal. Let's call it a day. The Rooms will let you know clearly what they want. I therefore assume that the Secretary of State will implement the proposal generously, including financially. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group awaits with interest the replies of the proposers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation, on behalf of my group, for the great work they have done. I agree with the previous spokesmen. This initiative proposal provides for the anchoring of the law on the funding of religious and humanistic education, abbreviated GVO and HVO. I will use these abbreviations in future, also with regard to speaking time. The aim of the legislative proposal is to create a basis for giving AMvB rules or conditions for the funding of such education in public schools. This translates current funding through grants into statutory funding insofar as this education is provided by competent teachers. My group has a number of questions about this. Public schools are open to every student and teacher. Education is not based on religion or belief. There are public schools that teach from certain educational points of view, e.g. dalton and jenaplan education. The municipality must ensure that there is enough public education. This is also reflected in Article 23 of the Constitution on freedom of education. If there are not enough public schools, the municipality ensures that children receive public education in a different way, for example by arranging transport to a public school. Public education must therefore be accessible to all and neutral against philosophical views, so without preference for one or a few religions. This initiative legislative proposal further formalises the right of parents to demand GVO and HVO at a public school for their children. This financial legal anchoring does not further threaten the neutrality of public education, I ask the initiators. And isn't this the axe at the root of special education? What is the view of the proposers and the government on the future of the special schools? There is now a subsidy for public schools to finance GVO and HVO when there is a need for it among sufficient parents. This grant shall be renewed periodically. The means are used to appoint, for example, a theologian or pastor with an educational competence. The lessons are in principle only for the pupils of parents who want this. The school has no influence on the content of the GVO and HVO offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u14	I am intrigued by the words of Mr Bruijn, who make me fear the heart, which seems to be at the root of the special and also of public education. I ask him to explain how it is possible that an element that has existed for two centuries is now suddenly the axe at the root.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u15	I didn't say the axe was at the root. I asked if the proposers were not afraid of that. Depending on the arguments and the answers, I will take a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u16	This is pure rhetoric, because you don't ask that question when you don't think it yourself. The authors do not think so, otherwise they would not have made this proposal. How is it that Mr Bruijn suspects that they might be afraid that this will put the ax at the root of the whole system if it has existed for two centuries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u17	Again, I do not have that position yet, but I am indeed asking that question. I am curious to see how the proposers look at the fact that we have the religious education, which in its nature belongs in particular to education for this purpose, we have contaminated Article 23 of the Constitution in public education, which in its nature should not be oriented towards one or a limited number of religions. Furthermore, I will come back to the role of religious education in public education, because that is the role of course. The question is indeed why the proposers are not afraid that this kind of mixture will eventually lead to the disappearance of special education, which we would all regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u18	Very briefly, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u19	Very briefly. Mr Bruijn uses the word 'now'. So this has been going on for two centuries. My question is again why it is now a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u20	I didn't talk about trouble. We see that this law takes a further step towards formalising religious education in schools that were not originally intended for this purpose, namely for public education. With this law, we have neither the abolition of education nor the extension of it. We have a formalisation of its funding towards structural funding. The question is whether this is a step in the right direction. I shall come back to this question in detail later, but so far I have answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u21	I have already said that this already exists since 1806. It has always been chosen, at all times that it has been called into question, to maintain this piece of religious education that is not provided by the schools. So it's not new. The discussion that is now being called for would mean that for 200 years that axe may have been at that root. I think this is just something that teaches your kids that there are people who think differently and that there are other things in the world that you grew up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u22	I'm happy for the CDA that it doesn't feel that fear. What is not new is that my party has always had great difficulty with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u23	I have just included the wording as set out in the core targets, in the core target 38. This applies both to public education and to special education. It states that pupils learn main things about spiritual movements that play an important role in the Dutch multicultural society, and so on. Have I understood correctly from the words of Mr Bruijn that in public education there is full attention to religious education or spiritual movements and so on? Even now, public education needs to look at the bill we're talking about right now outside mainstream education to offer something extra, a plus. Do you have to mix the two of them with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u24	I will come back to the role of religious philosophical education in the school's structural curriculum. By the way, I heard the word "main lines" in your quote. It is therefore a question of the broad outlines of religious and other philosophical movements. That's what the law says. We agree on that. However, I cannot escape the impression that the education we are talking about is not broad-based.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u25	I think I agree with Mr Bruijn. It is a matter of substance, not of substance. The education now envisaged can go much further if that is the wish of the parents. However, this is not the responsibility of the public school. It is good to note that, to maintain the right relations within what is laid down in Article 23 and what is regulated around this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u26	I'm not fighting that. I listened very carefully to what Mr Schalk said. It is true that the law states that the main issues or main lines of these religious movements must be taught in public schools. I will come back to that later, but we agree on that. So that is different from what is happening in particular education, and that is very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u27	In addition to those main issues, there is a possibility for this course, one hour a week. Mr Bruijns just said that his party has always been critical of this. That position surprised me a bit, because I have read back and I have seen that several times in the House of Representatives has been called upon to maintain it and to finance it. In 2013, the last appeal to the cabinet to do so in the Voordewind motion was supported by the VVD. Now that the bill is in place, the butter has suddenly disappeared from the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u28	Then Mrs Bikker needs to take a closer look at history. This Voordewind motion was part of a broader package of agreements. The majority of these agreements were supported by my group in the House of Representatives. This is a political discussion. We are, by the way, having a discussion about this which has literally already passed in the House of Representatives, but I am happy to do so. As part of that package, my group did indeed vote in favour of this motion. If that makes Mrs Bikker sad, I invite her to make sure that this motion is submitted in isolation in the House of Representatives. Then my group's voting behaviour will undoubtedly be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u29	I'm sorry, but a motion is passed and a party supports it. Then I don't have to read history differently. Then I see the result of the vote in which the VVD is in. Well, then we shouldn't frame that any different. That's what it said. Apparently, the VVD once again finds that it has no added value. At that time, however, the House of Representatives gave a large majority of the signal that this had to be arranged and it was not arranged. That's what I'm establishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u30	It's much stronger. My group in the House of Representatives has tabled a motion to abolish it altogether, but unfortunately it has not been supported by the Christian Union. That's history, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u31	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u32	It is true that an amendment was tabled by a fellow party member of Mr Bruijn on the other side of the House. However, Mr Bruijns says that his party has always been critical of this. I put a footnote to that and he can't refute that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u33	Sure. As part of that package, we were very critical of that part. However, there were so many other issues in that package that we did agree with that we voted for. It's called a compromise. Perhaps in the future we will have to make this kind of compromise together as parties. By that time, I'd like to get back to this. The public school where this education is given has no influence on the content of the GVO and HVO offered. The initiators want to convert the grant into legal funding. At present, 10 million per year go to this education and the proposers suspect that this cost will rise to 15 million per year as a result of the legislative proposal. That may be a modest amount for Mr Pijlman, but that is a lot of money for the taxpayer and my party. My question to the proposers and the government is therefore how this amount is covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u34	In fact, I think it is a modest amount, because it does not go overnight. It's moving slowly. The proposers don't know exactly how it's gonna go. On the one hand, there is shrinking and, on the other, there should be indexation. I assume you also think that one teacher should not be reimbursed differently from the other, Mr Bruijn. There could also be growth. We are talking about 5 million over a whole number of years. That can certainly be said modestly in the light of the education budget. I can't imagine the VVD looking at that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u35	The VVD looks at that differently. After all, whoever doesn't honor the little one... It amounts to 5 million, i.e. "five thousand thousand euros" every year, paid by taxpayers. If we find that a small amount, we will indeed go on a sliding scale that my party would not want to go on. It's a relative amount, of course. Maybe we can find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u36	It is indeed a relative amount. So let me leave that growth out of the equation. Do you not also think that these teachers should be paid in the same way as other teachers and, for example, earn indexation on their salaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u37	That depends, first of all, on whether that money is anywhere to be found and at the expense of what it is going to be. When you're funding, you have to think in terms of alternatives. So the question is, where is this money coming from? I'd like to ask the same question. If we know where it comes from, we can consider whether this is more important than what is apparently worth 5 million less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u38	With all due respect, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u39	Finally, Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u40	With all due respect, we see with what ease all sorts of things are being served in this election time. Then it would be a good thing for the cabinet and also for the VVD that if there is a clear statement from both Chambers, for years, it is simply indexed here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u41	The indexation has not yet been discussed as far as I am concerned, but the financing in general is. I'm about to ask a question about that. At least when I get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u42	Yes, you are. I think it is fine that someone should ask about the soundness of a proposal. You say that there must be money and ask how that will be covered, Mr Bruijn. That's usually a question you can really ask me. However, the amount of 15 million referred to is foreseen in 2025. That's gonna take a long time. The only question before us now is whether the amount of 10 million is static or whether this, like everything else in the education sector, should grow along with it, which does not create such problems. If you want to do something right, I think that is the option and not the remark that it is not covered and that it is therefore a bad proposal. It's 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u43	I fundamentally disagree with this. The worst thing you can do in public administration is throw money around without knowing where it's coming from. Because whoever has to pay for it, the taxpayer, can't answer. All I'm asking is for this amount to be covered. Because it has to come from somewhere. It's either from an increase in charges, or from a cut in taxes, or from an increasing public debt. There are no more flavors. I want to know where it came from. I believe that is our responsibility. If the CDA thinks otherwise, it's on the CDA. If D66 thinks that's election talk, maybe that says something about what D66 is doing. My group is only asking where we are going to get that money. After that, we can balance these two alternatives of spending and then we come to a position. That seems to me to be common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u44	Of course, I'm willing to think along, and I think that goes for the whole Chamber to see how you can arrange something like that in a good way. But then I also ask the VVD to consider how teachers, and hence the funding, can be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u45	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u46	That's a very nice little bridge to the question I want to ask. I understand that Mr Bruijn is not in favour of this form of education and that he is happy to withdraw from the agreements that have been made. That's his way of compromise. But does he say, now that we have this deal, now that we have this law, really: leave it as it is, the quality of the teachers and their funding doesn't matter, do I want the inequality to persist? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u47	First of all, the VVD does not withdraw from agreements made. There is no agreement yet on structural funding. That is a proposal from these authors. We'll see if we can go along with that or not. That depends, of course, on the answers to a number of questions we have. It's that simple. There is no agreement from which we withdraw, we do not advocate...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u48	I wasn't referring to that deal. I was referring to another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u49	Let Mr Bruijn speak, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u50	We are not in favour of abolishing or withdrawing the existing regime, we are looking at a proposal for a change, on which we are asking critical questions. That seems to me not only a right, but also a duty of this Chamber. If Mrs Gerkens blames me, perhaps we should go to the same room that Mrs Bikker and Mr Pijlman are now in to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u51	That is now a big room!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u52	It's getting more and more fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mrs. Gerkens has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u54	Let's make a reservation on that room. It is very good how Mr Bruijn does not answer the questions I am asking at all and also refers to agreements other than those I am referring to. I ask him here whether it is true that he says: okay, we have the possibility of giving philosophical education in public education, that law is there, but I do not really want to create legal equality for teachers and the quality of education. After all, that costs money, which is annoying, and we do not want that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u55	No, that's not right. You can read the Acts later, after what I have just said. If you're facing the choice of spending taxpayers' money on something, if you're sitting here, you have a duty to see where that comes from. There's always a price: either the taxpayer has to pay more taxes, or we're all gonna raise public debt. Then our children pay it, not only in terms of money, but also in terms of employment. Unless we cut back somewhere else: on care, on Defense or on something else. I want to know where that money comes from, no matter how much it is. This is a duty of principle that we have here. If I know where it comes from, I can balance the price paid and the importance of financing education in general, an interest that my group fully supports. That is why our election programme allocates 35 billion a year to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u56	Then I can only conclude that Mr Bruijn says: if there is any money left, then we want to improve that legal position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u57	That says something about the way the SP looks at the rich budget: there's never any money left, that's not an option. The money always comes from somewhere. Each euro is either borrowed from the children or paid, donated to the state by the taxpayer or removed from something else that we also consider important, such as Social Affairs, Defence, health care. My group finds it irresponsible to promise that you can spend money without telling us where it comes from. If the SP doesn't approve, it's on the SP. Whether it is 5 million or 5 billion, that makes no difference in principle to my group: we certainly have that responsibility here as the last party in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u59	How is this amount covered, I ask applicants and government. So, depending on the answer to that question, we can all look at the alternatives. What is the position in a more general sense with the Government's commitment T2364 to my group to send a letter on financial coverage of legislative initiative proposals in general, which would arrive at this Chamber at least before the Christmas holidays of 2016? GVO and HVO in public schools have already been introduced into education regulations. Is this a desirable development, however? Under Article 50 of the Primary Education Act, the competent authority of a public school must allow its pupils, within the school hours, to be taught separately from the rest of the group on a specific religion or philosophy. But is this, first of all, consistent with the contemporary vision of education, in which the integral group dynamics take such a central place? And how does this relate to our vision of integration and binding citizenship, when a group of children in public school always separate themselves from receiving lessons about a particular religion, which is determined by their parents? If, for example, Jewish or Islamic children are taken out of class to receive separate education in another local area. Just yesterday, the devastating criticism of the inspection came that schools miserably fail in fulfilling their legal duty to anchor citizenship and Dutch values in the curriculum. At the expense of which curriculum parts is this education? Then why are these parts not superfluous for the other students?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u60	Mr Bruijn says: yes, inclusive education is of great importance. He used the word "always." It's one o'clock a week. Children in primary education are constantly placed in groups to learn some additional skills or, when they are very good, to absorb extra dust. They're all used to that. So I'm disturbed by that word "always": it's about one hour a week. The initiators have also limited that: they have gone back from the now possible three hours to one hour. That is what Mr Bruijn should address, I suppose. Well, then I guess we can add that kind of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u61	In the end, it goes too fast. That's D66: throwing money in election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u62	It's really going to be election time! I don't think you can make it clear that my party doesn't handle public money very well. Without my party, your government couldn't even have ruled, to name one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u63	That wasn't in election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u64	May I ask everyone to stick to today's subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u65	Sure. It is not from my mouth that the concepts of'snapping with money' and 'election time' came out of Mr Arrowman's. I have to respect him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u66	Now let's stop talking about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u67	The word "always" refers to something that is repetitive. Once a week, it's true, it's always been. At least that's how I learned in my public school. I will continue with my speech. Why aren't those curriculum parts unnecessary for the other students? How are the views and wishes of the child concerned weighed? Does the choice of financing special education in public schools not also raise the question of why an exception is being made for this form of education? Why don't we also pay for extra technical education or music lessons when parents ask for it? Is it not a very arbitrary choice to pay separately for religious and philosophical education that we should no longer make in today's spirit of time? The argument that this bill is the solution to the problem of not having special education for every child in the home environment is also an arbitrary choice, I ask the proposers. There's not always an iPad school or a free school, is there? We are not going to introduce this in public schools in one way or another, unless it becomes the next legislative proposal of the proposers. In any case, I would like a response from the proposers on this point. Even more important for my group is the question of whether public education is, in principle, anything other than special or religious education. If that's what parents want, they're free to choose another school. Is there not the freedom of education, which is so dear to us? People are free to choose the form of education they prefer. If there is no school that suits them or their children, they even have the freedom to set up a new school. These are important freedoms in Dutch society and we must cherish them. As long as a school meets the quality requirements of good education, it has the right to exist, whether public education, special education or any other form of education. In shrinking areas there is also the possibility of forming cooperation schools between public and special education. In order to expand the possibilities for this, the law is now in place in this Chamber together by simplifying the school of cooperation. Of course, all students must learn something about religion or beliefs, at least the main issues, from the point of view of the SGP. In fact, every public school should provide for this, but in a general and personal sense, the members of my group believe, paying attention to all religions for all pupils. Key objective 38 of primary education also states this very clearly: the pupils learn the main issues of the spiritual movements that play an important role in Dutch society and they learn to deal with differences in people's views respectfully. For this, classes are sometimes divided up into small groups, but taking a small group out of the class is of course quite different from dividing the class into small groups, I say in the direction of D66. Question-driven, religious education for a specific group in public education is not included. For those who want to, there are special schools. I would like to hear the views of the initiators and the Secretary of State. I come to the need for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u68	I'm trying to understand. Freedom of education means, for Mr Bruijn, that you can choose a school, but once you have chosen a school, that freedom stops. What happens inside the school is beyond that. Does this mean that Mr Bruijn is in favour of the French model of secularity with regard to public education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u69	No, I'm in favour of the model we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u70	The model that we have had for about 200 years means that in public education we also give room to a philosophical floor from the background of the parents. So what Mr Bruijn says is not entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u71	I am not in favour of abolishing that. There's another proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr President, I should like to say a few words about Mr Bruijn. Do you mind if I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u73	Mr Ganzevoort has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you. Mr Bruijn's questions suggest that he wants to move towards a model in which public education is completely neutral and in which there is no longer room for specific, religious or philosophical colours. Doesn't he really want a French-laician model instead of the Dutch model we've had all this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u75	No, I'm not standing here arguing for another model. I am in favour of the choice of whether my group agrees with the proposal to make the subsidy of the CSR and the CSR structural in public education. My group has great difficulty with this for the time being, but perhaps the authors and the Secretary of State can convince my group that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u76	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u77	I note that Mr Bruijn is not only asking practical questions about the feasibility of the proposal, but also asking fundamental questions that go towards a laicistic model of public education. That is a different model than the one we know in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u78	I take note of that observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u79	I also have a question for Mr Bruijn on this point. Maybe he can clarify this a little bit more. I hear him say, "And that's great, that Article 23 is fine." The way in which we are allowed to implement education in this country is indeed special. But I also hear in his words that if public education is chosen, there must be no more than what is now in key objective 38. In my opinion, that's a little bit the way it's meant to be. A teacher should not impose or pass on his personal vision and opinion to the children. It seems almost as if Mr Bruijn is making a plea for a kind of state education, in which everything is completely flattened and you can only give what we have agreed with each other. There are parents who may very consciously opt for public education, but also want to make a bonus, a plus, for their children. Do you have to completely deny that to those parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u80	No one wants to deny that to those parents, which is why we have the freedom of education. Parents can set up their own school or join a school. They can decide that all by themselves. They can even take over the whole package of a public school and add a piece of religious education, dalton education or jenaplan education. This is a severely fought freedom, which has been the subject of much discussion in the past. If you want to provide structural funding for public education, my group is wondering how that relates to the original intention. We have agreed on it with all of us, I would also say in the direction of the SP Committee on the separation of these two forms of education. I also asked the authors how this relates to the future of these two forms of education. What is their view of the dot on the horizon? Aren't you putting the axe at the root of special education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr Schalk, I would like a brief interruption. I will then give Mr Bruijn the opportunity to continue his speech, otherwise we will be stuck in this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u82	I put two questions behind Mr Bruijn's question, because I do not understand where he sees the axe at the root. Let's not take away something we've been offering parents for hundreds of years. Some parents may choose public education very consciously. I wouldn't have done that myself, people know that about me, but I do give it to people. I like to give them that plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u83	I'm not suggesting we abolish that either. I am faced with the question of whether we should fund it in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u84	Very briefly, Mr Schalk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u85	I hear in Mr Bruijn's speech that he actually wants to go back in time a few hundred years ago, to the time when people wanted special education and they were told that you have to pay for it yourself. There are people who opt for public education, but also want something extra for their children. Then we say to them: because you have been stupid enough to choose public education, we are not going to help you with the education with which your children would have been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u86	No, I am not in favour of abolishing the funding here. In fact, to the horror of Mrs Bikker, my group has even voted in favour of maintaining it. I call for a discussion on whether we should go for structural funding instead of subsidising.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u87	I am missing a small part of Mr Bruijn's speech. This shows that public education has traditionally been referred to as "the last refuge" for parents who, in particular, cannot find what they think is most wonderful for their child. In public education there is the possibility of adding that small plus, as Mr Schalk said just as well. How does the VVD appreciate the principle of the last refuge, a principle that we have maintained for two centuries in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u88	At first, it was flattened, and now it's another "flying hill." Anyway, I'm flexible. In fact, my group considers this possibility to be so important that it warmly welcomes the freedom of education, as we have always done. Thanks to this freedom, parents can organise education exactly as they wish. There is also public education. The SGP considers that to be flattened, but when I look at the Secretary of State's plans in the curriculum for 2032, public education has not been flattened at all. It is a very lively form of education. We wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u89	One more time, Mrs. Bikker. And, Mr Schalk, I think it's all very nice, but I think we should get on with the debate in a moment. Mrs Bikker, you may make one more interruption and then Mr Bruijn will finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u90	All kinds of other entrapments have been done where I feel like responding to, but I just want an answer to my question. It has been the last refuge for two centuries for parents who could not find it in particular education. The VVD doesn't do justice to that. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u91	My group does do justice to that, because it refers to the severely fought freedom of education. Those parents can therefore set up their own school exactly as they wish, including all escape mounds and flattened parts. That exists, that is possible, that is freedom, and that is what my group likes. As this debate progresses, my group sees even more and more reasons not to mix the two. Let us, above all, separate it purely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u92	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u93	Then I come to talk about the need for this bill. The explanatory memorandum to the law points out that in general education is governed by the rule that the number of pupils determines the resources available and that there is no reason not to allow this to apply to this education too. However, according to the Advisory Section of the Council of State, that reasoning ignores the other form of public involvement and responsibility in the situation of funding for education, in the sense that public-funded education may be subject to sound requirements and conditions of funding. In that light, the question arises as to why public involvement in public schools should be such as to justify the conversion of funding through a grant into a structural funding based on a legal basis. In view of the above, the Council of State recommends that the explanatory memorandum should provide a more detailed justification for the need for structural funding. In their response, the applicants argue that this is particularly necessary because the uncertainty of a subsidy scheme may undermine teachers' interest in this. I would like to ask the authors to show that this fear is justified. The State subsidy for the GVO and HVO Services Centre has been in force since 1 August 2009 and is explicitly structural and not incidental in nature. In its letter of 13 June 2013 following the government's planned cessation of this structural subsidy, the Association of Public and Public Access Schools specifically states that, upon discontinuation, 700 qualified teachers would lose their jobs. I would like to leave aside the fact that the loss of employment in the collective sector is always a difficult argument against a change in the law, as this can lead to structural net job growth through cost reduction on balance. But if the current form of subsidy could undermine teachers' interest, as the proposers put it, it should have been demonstrated after more than seven years, the interest should at least be waning and there should be a large shortage of teachers. Moreover, if the bare uncertainty that would result from a subsidy scheme in general would be sufficient argument to establish a legal basis, how many of these applicants' own-initiative laws can we still look forward to? I'd like an answer from the proposers. My group read in the second letter of amendment that one legal person is designated to facilitate GVO and HVO, provided that it is taught by competent teachers. At present, that legal entity is the Services Centre GVO and HVO. The quality of this service centre, of which staff are also present, is not at issue here for my group. Should the service centre no longer be able to do so in the future for one reason or another, the Minister may designate another legal person. If the members of my group understand correctly, the public school where that education is given has no say in or knowledge of the content of that education. But the Council of State, as I have already said, points to the other form of government involvement and responsibility in the situation of funding for education, in the sense that public-funded education may be subject to sound requirements and conditions of funding. Would it not then be consistent and reason enough that the school will soon be concerned with the content and quality of this education as well as with the rest of the structurally funded education? And what about the role of the inspection in relation to the GVO and HVO in public schools? Please provide a more detailed explanation of the applicants and the Secretary of State and, if possible, a commitment on this point. It is clear that my group believes, in principle, that religious education and philosophical education should not be at the expense of regular education in public schools, but we would like to hear the arguments of the initiators and the government's view on this. Members of my group look forward to the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. As the PVV has already argued in the discussion of the bill in the Lower House: we do not understand much of the intention of this bill. For the funding of philosophical education and religious education in public schools, EUR 10 million is available annually. Under this bill, this funding must be legally anchored. The question remains which problem is actually solved. Usefulness and necessity remain unclear. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators refer to an annual increase in expenditure which is "the increase in pension contributions and the periodic increases in salary for teachers." On the inclusion of the funding of philosophical education and religious education in the Primary Education Act, they write: "This legal anchor also provides the sector with more security and continuity than an annual subsidy post, which can always be called into question." What certainty is this about in practice? In Article 184b, second paragraph of the Primary Education Act, the initiators propose to regulate the funding of religious education per AMvB. Could they perhaps explain how much more security an AMvB offers than an annual subsidy post? It is also based on a grant decision and can be adapted to wage and price developments. So once again, what is the problem here? During the treatment in the Lower House, the initiators stated that "the subsidy ceiling leads to a qualitative and quantitative phasing-out scenario. As costs increase, the supply of lessons will have to be reduced. Eventually, GVO or HVO could disappear in public schools." I have the following questions about this. To what extent has the offer of these lessons already been reduced? Is this gonna get you in trouble? And is the current subsidy post responsible for that? Do the initiators perhaps have practical examples to demonstrate the urgency of this bill? And in what time do the proposers' estimates of philosophical education and religious education in public schools threaten to disappear altogether? Above all, we do not understand why religious education should be given by, as stated in Article 51 of the law: "teachers appointed by church churches, local churches." And why should philosophical education be given by "teachers appointed by organizations on a spiritual basis"? We're talking about people from the practice here. Firstly, we do not consider that to be appropriate for a public school. Moreover, the school has no substantive responsibility for the lessons given. Secondly, there is already the field of knowledge "spiritual movements" in which the ordinary teacher can already teach. See core objective 38, world orientation. This is the responsibility of the school in terms of content. So parents can also go somewhere if they disagree with something, if they have something to complain about. There is something to complain about, for example when students are poisoned with a visit to the mosque as part of this core goal. It's all in the order of the day. I'll come back to that later. In the Netherlands we have a tradition of public and special schools: the dual education system. As is well known, the PVV is a strong supporter of special education, Article 23 of the Constitution. Parents have the freedom to organise and shape education themselves, if they so wish. Above all, parents have the freedom to send their children to a school of their choice. This may include a public school, a special religious school or a general special school on an educational basis. By legally anchoring the funding of philosophical education and religious education and by explicitly including it in the school guide, the current additional nature of this education is fading. Do the initiators not think that this will reduce the distinction between public and special schools? Do they not think that this may discourage parents from sending their children to special schools if they so wish? After all, Mr President... As the PVV has already argued in the discussion of the bill in the Lower House: we do not understand much of the intention of this bill. For the funding of philosophical education and religious education in public schools, EUR 10 million is available annually. Under this bill, this funding must be legally anchored. The question remains which problem is actually solved. Usefulness and necessity remain unclear. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators refer to an annual increase in expenditure which is "the increase in pension contributions and the periodic increases in salary for teachers." On the inclusion of the funding of philosophical education and religious education in the Primary Education Act, they write: "This legal anchor also provides the sector with more security and continuity than an annual subsidy post, which can always be called into question." What certainty is this about in practice? In Article 184b, second paragraph of the Primary Education Act, the initiators propose to regulate the funding of religious education per AMvB. Could they perhaps explain how much more security an AMvB offers than an annual subsidy post? It is also based on a grant decision and can be adapted to wage and price developments. So once again, what is the problem here? During the treatment in the Lower House, the initiators stated that "the subsidy ceiling leads to a qualitative and quantitative phasing-out scenario. As costs increase, the supply of lessons will have to be reduced. Eventually, GVO or HVO could disappear in public schools." I have the following questions about this. To what extent has the offer of these lessons already been reduced? Is this gonna get you in trouble? And is the current subsidy post responsible for that? Do the initiators perhaps have practical examples to demonstrate the urgency of this bill? And in what time do the proposers' estimates of philosophical education and religious education in public schools threaten to disappear altogether? Above all, we do not understand why religious education should be given by, as stated in Article 51 of the law: "teachers appointed by church churches, local churches." And why should philosophical education be given by "teachers appointed by organizations on a spiritual basis"? We're talking about people from the practice here. Firstly, we do not consider that to be appropriate for a public school. Moreover, the school has no substantive responsibility for the lessons given. Secondly, there is already the field of knowledge "spiritual movements" in which the ordinary teacher can already teach. See core objective 38, world orientation. This is the responsibility of the school in terms of content. So parents can also go somewhere if they disagree with something, if they have something to complain about. There is something to complain about, for example when students are poisoned with a visit to the mosque as part of this core goal. It's all in the order of the day. I'll come back to that later. In the Netherlands we have a tradition of public and special schools: the dual education system. As is well known, the PVV is a strong supporter of special education, Article 23 of the Constitution. Parents have the freedom to organise and shape education themselves, if they so wish. Above all, parents have the freedom to send their children to a school of their choice. This may include a public school, a special religious school or a general special school on an educational basis. By legally anchoring the funding of philosophical education and religious education and by explicitly including it in the school guide, the current additional nature of this education is fading. Do the initiators not think that this will reduce the distinction between public and special schools? Do they not think that this may discourage parents from sending their children to special schools if they so wish? After all,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u95	Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u96	I'm gonna let you know what Mr Kops just said. He says he is strongly in favour of special education because it gives parents the opportunity to make the choice they want. I agree with that, by the way. But this also means, of course, that Mr Kops agrees that parents can establish Islamic schools when they need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u97	What does Mr Pijlman think? This is really asking about the familiar road. It's a rhetorical question. Of course, Mr Pijlman is aware that we are against Islamic education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u98	Mr Kops will have to amend Rule 23. That is why I asked this question and I hesitated to ask it. I am trying to discover some consistency in the thinking of the PVV, because if Mr Kops is in favour of special education and Article 23, he is in favour of Islamic schools. In my opinion, there are no more flavors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u99	I don't think I heard a question. In any case, we are very much in favour of special education and we are absolutely opposed to Islamic education. I will come back to it in a moment, so I would ask Mr Pijlman to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u100	This is a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u101	By the way, if Mr Pijlman doesn't understand what I'm saying correctly, he's missing consistency or whatever, then that means I'm on the right track. I need to see where I left off. I'm all over my a-pros; that's what you get. Do the initiators not think that parents may be discouraged from sending their children to special education if they so wish? After all, what added value does special education have? There are parents who prefer a special school. That's fine. However, there are also parents who very consciously opt for a public school. Is this choice not undermined by strengthening the position of philosophical education and religious education in public schools? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u102	I would add to this argument that a lot of parents choose a school that is nearby or a school that is well-known. They don't really care very much whether that school is public or special. I think this may be true for most parents. In any case, some studies show that for many people the color of the school is not the most important. Mr Kops stressed the distinction between public and special education. Hasn't that distinction gotten pretty nuanced over time? Many special schools, for example, have a rather broad philosophical colour and a lot of public education does pay attention to specific colours and beliefs. Isn't the big difference, that public education is controlled by the government and that it is special education from the parents, also related because public education is often more distanced? In other words, is the difference still as great as Mr Kops suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u103	Could Mr Ganzevoort please explain the following? I have indeed talked about the difference between public and special education. That's right. We've got in this country I'm going to deal with this in a moment... the separation of Church and State. Mr Ganzevoort also knows, of course, that public education is organized and maintained by the State. Does he not think that the separation of Church and State should also apply in public schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u104	Mr. Ganzevoort, one last comment. Mr Kops then resumed his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u105	Replying doesn't make much sense if I just get a counter question and don't answer my own question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u106	If it bothers Mr Ganzevoort, I would advise him to explain that in his own speech. Mr. Chairman. What is the meaning of religious education? The initiators have an idea. In the explanatory memorandum, they write: "Confidences have an important forming value for the spiritual development of children. This transfers values and standards for social co-life, and that is what we need today." Can they explain this? Why is there a need for this today? What's the cause of that? Furthermore, the explanatory statement states: "It is a good thing that citizens are youngly interpreted the value of the democratically organized rule of law in which each has the right to his own beliefs and religious differences are accepted and protected. It is therefore a good thing that the government also creates conditions at the public school to allow religions and beliefs to fulfil their moral and social function." Yeah, that's a mouthful. "Normals and values," "accept and protect differences," "fulfill moral and social function," they're all fine words, but the practice is less rosy than this. Mr Bruijn already referred to the fact that the education inspection has presented a report which shows that the so-called citizenship education is not doing well. In schools, insufficient attention is paid to our Dutch core values. In addition, last week, DUO Education Research presented the results of the research "Integration at school." These results, too, are downright sad. This shows that certain subjects in schools can no longer be discussed because they are too sensitive to Islamic culture in certain cultures, such as homosexuality, attacks, Islamisation, terrorism. What's that all about? This is due to the failure of integration and increasing segregation in society and in schools. 54% of teachers and school leaders in Amsterdam, a majority, confirm this. 62% of teachers and school leaders who recognise the failed integration and the increasing segregation at their own school, mention differences between Western and non-Western norms and values as a cause. 43% of them indicate that religion plays a role in this and also mentions the unwillingness to integrate. This is serious, very serious. Once again, I ask the question as to why this is happening. Researcher Van der Woud states: that teachers no longer discuss topics, is largely due to differences in values and standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u107	Could the provision of GVO or HVO in public education also help to give an extra boost to integration, which seems to have failed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u108	The answer is no. I'm gonna get into that in a minute. I'm almost there, I promise. Mr. Chairman. It's because of a difference in values and standards. It is because of Islam that runs counter to our Western values and values. How do the initiators react to the fact that of all the fine words, such as explaining the value of the rule of law, in which everything should of course be negotiable, due to the failure of integration, the increasing segregation and over-arching Islam, does not end up in practice too much? How does the Secretary of State feel about that? I could also put that question directly to Mr Schalk, because in practice nothing is going to happen. In the context of all the problems highlighted in the report of the Education Inspectorate and the report of DUO, it is concluded that integration has failed. Boxes as world orientation have just failed. It doesn't work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u109	Very briefly, because perhaps we should not engage in this discussion now. I'm gonna go back to what I was just talking about. The PVV represents at least the Jewish-Christian tradition. You could say that within the HVO and GVO these traditions could be brought to the attention of children, perhaps at the request of the parents. The parents ask for it themselves. Perhaps you could find a little bit of this integration in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u110	Practice simply shows that this is not the case. If Mr Schalk has listened carefully, he has heard that I have just quoted several times from the explanatory statement what, according to the initiators, is the purpose of religious education and philosophical education. It speaks of values and standards to be transferred, of social coexistence and of the rule of law in which everything must be said. However, the reports show that practice is different, that it is not. This education is therefore inadequate in this respect. That is the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u111	Should we stop completely explaining which society you would like, or should we continue to try to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u112	It would, of course, help if people, parties, first and foremost, recognized what the problem is and why it comes. That's what we need to start with. However, that is not enough, even here in this Chamber. Education Islam is further and further. Students who visit a mosque and learn how to pray in Islam: this reverse integration is what it is, in fact, the order of the day. Integration has failed, so should the students adapt to Islam? It's an absolute disgrace. In addition, there are school administrators who would like to help the Islamization of education. They are not ashamed of that. I refer, for example, to Mrs Steenvoorden of the Christian Church: Christian! ZAAM Scholengroep, who wants to meet Islamic students and their parents by introducing, for example, separate gyms. Yes, it is. Divorced gyms. What an idiot! Such school administrators do not want to pass on our culture, our achievements and our values to the next generations. No, they want to abolish them all! It's crazy. Having said that, finally, I would like to turn to the following. Co-initiator of the bill is Mr Voordewind of the ChristianUnion. His own group chairman in the Lower House, Mr Segers, was on Saturday 28 January last. to be heard in the radio programme Kamerbreed at NPO 1. I admit, it took me a while to listen to that terrible left-wing public service channel, I had of course renounced it, but I could have pushed myself into it. There seems to be so many fake news nowadays, and as far as the NPO is concerned, you never know. Anyway, that aside. On the radio, Mr Segers advocated the abolition of public education. Parents who deliberately want to send their children to a public school are apparently not awarded this by the Christian Union. The abolition of public education has, as has been made clear on the radio, given new impetus to special education. That is remarkable, because aren't the initiators, with their legislative proposals, just trying to give a boost to public education? Is the bill not contrary to the abolition of this, as advocated by the Christian Union? I would like to receive a response from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u113	I'm going to press the mood bell now, because we're getting a maiden speech. I would like to give the floor to Mr Sini for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the Labour Party Group expresses its thanks and appreciation for the initiators, Mrs Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog. Thanks to the Secretary of State, too. The initiators have put a lot of work into this beautiful proposal. The Labour Party will support this proposal. The best thing is that the initiators have spoken so many organisations, both from the educational field and from the philosophical and religious field. My group is in favour of structural funding for philosophical education and religious education in public schools. This identity-oriented education aims to teach children at a young age to respect other beliefs, beliefs and cultures. The lessons help children to develop their own view of life, to have an eye for what faith can mean for people, in short, to have respect for people who are different in life than themselves. This education can contribute to a society in which people are connected, a society that knows compassion and in which everyone counts and matters, regardless of origin, religion or sexual orientation. Also given my personal background I feel very involved in this ideal. That's one of my main motivations to get into this beautiful house, the First Chamber. The present initiative proposal provides a legal basis for the funding of religious and philosophical education in public schools. The intended legal anchoring offers greater security and continuity to relevant teachers, parents and schools. The initiative proposal clearly provides for a social need, witnessing the letter in which a large number of organisations from the field support the initiative proposal. The letter of support bears the signatures of about thirteen organisations, including the General Education Association, CNV Education, the PO Council and Verus, association for Catholic and Christian education. As the initiators point out, the present legislative proposal takes the final step on the long road towards achieving a full legal position of philosophical and religious education in public schools. However, legal anchoring of the funding of this form of teaching entails obligations. As the Council of State points out, public-funded education is subject to robust requirements and conditions of funding. Parents who choose to put their children in a public school and at the same time want to give their children a philosophical or religious education can count on supervision of the validity of the lessons and the skill of the teachers. Do the initiators and the Secretary of State agree with my group that, bearing in mind special education, a legal basis for this education in public education implies that these lessons should also be subject to inspection in public education? In particular education, the educational inspection shall examine the lessons if there is a reasonable suspicion, based on relevant facts and/or circumstances, that the teaching of religion involves inciting pupils to intolerance, discrimination or hatred. Practice in particular education is now that the inspection involves religious education in monitoring when a school itself asks for it. An important condition here is that schools include philosophical education and religious education in the school plan. In this context, my group refers to the letter sent by the inspector-general to the competent authority of all special schools in April 2003, following a commitment from the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the House of Representatives. In the above-mentioned letter, which was also sent in a copy to public schools, the inspector-general examines the method of monitoring religious education in particular. However, the letter states that the method described therein does not extend to religious education in public schools. The Group of the Party of Labour asks the initiators and the State Secretary how the Inspectorate of Education will relate to the Services Centre GVO and HVO and the public schools that make this education possible. Can the initiators address the question of which of the latter's two institutions is responsible for what? Who can parents knock on their door if something goes wrong? So who can also hold the inspection responsible? Does the public school concerned, as is the case at present, remain solely responsible for making teaching space and time available? Or is the school put in a position? Do the initiators and the Secretary of State consider, bearing in mind current practice in particular education, that the public schools concerned may also, on their own initiative, request the inspection to supervise the lessons offered? And is it part of the aforementioned supervision that involved public schools, in addition to providing information to parents in the school guide, also mention and explain the identity-oriented education in their school plan? I'm rounding up. My group supports this initiative proposal, but sees some concerns that I have raised in my last questions. We are very curious about the reaction of the initiators and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Sini. May I ask you to stand for a moment? Mr. Sini. Congratulations on your maiden speech. In the initiative-law proposal in which you make this speech, there are two issues that are very close to your heart: education and the role of religion in our society. You have started your working life at the Education, Education and Labour Unit of the Centre Foreigners Central Netherlands. From here you made the switch to the multicultural institute in Utrecht. In addition, you have held various positions at ROC Midden Nederland, including those of director of major cities policy. You have also been a member of the complaints advisory committee for eight years at the educational inspection and for six years at the National UNESCO Commission. In an interview, you indicated that education is not only the key to civilisation and prosperity, but also to good integration. This is how you experienced it when you came to the Netherlands from Morocco at the age of 15. For more than twenty years, as a member of the board of various civil society organisations, you have been committed to a tolerant and inclusive society. You were appointed officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau in 2009 for your achievements in education and your role in the integration debate. Integration is, in your view, a two-sided process in which immigrants acquire fundamental values and standards and Dutch society gives them the opportunity to be full citizens. The position of Islamic Dutch people has your special attention. For example, you were chairman of the Islam and Citizenship Foundation and played a vital role in the establishment of the Muslim and Government Contact Body. In that capacity, you were praised for your role as a diplomatic bridge builder. "The tone is important in the debate," you said in an interview in 2008. You are in favour of an open debate on values and standards, in which everyone can freely express their views and show respect for minorities. On several occasions you have gathered representatives of different beliefs to talk about what connects them. The aim of this was to create space and understanding for diversity. You have also recently pursued this objective in your role as strategic advisor to the national police corps. Your membership of this house is, after your membership of the city council of Utrecht, your second appearance in active politics. We wish you every success in your further contributions to the work of this Chamber. I shall now suspend the sitting to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. But, as I always say, I may be the first to wish you luck. So everyone has to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u116	I give the floor to Mrs Bikker, who is already in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. Education is all about education. With heart and soul many teachers are committed to the formation of our children, so that they gain much knowledge and are formed into young people with their own identity and young people who know about the religious sources of our moral and civilisation. For many years the importance of philosophical education in public education has been underlined. However, the quality requirements that the government has rightly imposed on teachers since 2008 have not been accompanied by structural statutory funding. In the case of amendment, however, a repair blow was made in 2008. The explanatory statement to that amendment stated that a structural form of national benefit is desirable from 2010. But it remained with a grant of 10 million and sometimes it was at a disadvantage. I am genuinely pleased that the House of Representatives has repeatedly expressed a positive view of the philosophy of education. Today, that actually comes to a climax, when dealing with this initiative proposal, which the House of Representatives already had a large majority. This proposal regulates the structural funding of philosophical education in public schools by law. The Christian Union Group would like to congratulate Mr Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog on this bill. This law is, as far as I am concerned, the conclusion of the special and good tradition in our country that all children are welcome in public schools and that parents can also request education that is in line with their beliefs or beliefs; therefore room for parents and for philosophical education. The tradition of giving parents freedom in the education and education of their children is also expressed in the space for the establishment of special schools. In the direction of the Secretary of State, I would point out that this freedom also translates into the establishment of our public education. Parents can choose that the philosophical formation is focused solely on core goal 38, easily put, to get to know the different currents. They can also choose to give their child even more than that; over one current or over several currents in successive years. Nobody's neutral. We teach our children values. The philosophy of education gives shape to that. The government has rightly set quality standards for teachers teaching our children, but by making the funding of this education dependent on a grant, there is permanent uncertainty about the financing of the GVO/HVO. That is not an imaginary uncertainty, as it turned out once again in 2013. The cabinet wanted to cancel the grant. Fortunately, a large majority of the House, including the party of the Secretary of State, the VVD, spoke out against this by means of the Voordewind motion. But that uncertainty does have consequences. It is not surprising that there is too little influx for the training to become a GVO/HVO teacher. It is rather remarkable that teachers have continued, despite the constant uncertainty. The Secretary of State must also have seen that there is a shortage of teachers, while the Law on Primary Education in Article 50 offers the possibility to receive religious education or philosophical or formal education. I haven't seen a plan of his to get rid of that shortage. On an earlier occasion, he did oppose this bill. Then what is the solution of the Secretary of State for this deficit, I ask him. The initiators opt for structural funding. I read that entry into force on 1 August is after the publication of the law in the Official Journal. Does this mean that the system of the law applies from the 2017-2018 season? The subsidy amount has not changed since 2008 and it is a standing policy that GVO/HVO teachers receive the same remuneration as group teachers in primary education. For GVO/HVO, the current system means that we will have to cut, that fewer children can be taught or that teachers are fired because the subsidy has never been adjusted. Structurally, the bill removes that problem, compliments for it, but for the years 2016 and 2017 there is still that problem. How does the Secretary of State view the current transitional period in the event of this bill being adopted? Does he want to work on a solution to this problem in the spirit of this bill? I hope that the Secretary of State will undertake that in the intervening period these teachers will also be subject to collective agreements. So I'm asking for a bridging arrangement. In a letter widely signed by public and special education, the PO Council and the various trade unions, the initiative legislative proposal is supported. This shows that religious and humanistic education has long proved its worth for the people working in schools. They also talk about the desire of a growing group of parents to have their children in public education. Do the proposers have any indication of how large the growth is? Is the Secretary of State in contact with interested parties about this growing group? How is he gonna take that if he's not in favour of this proposal? The bill regulates the details of the financing at AMvB. I want to know how far the preparation is. Can the petitioners or the Secretary of State say more about this? We are talking about rules or conditions for funding. Let these rules or conditions allow the freedom of substance to set up education as appropriate to the religious or philosophical movement in question, I ask the proposers. I would like to hear that expressed explicitly, because I do not think that this AMvB should be about the content. The time spent on this education is reduced for the number of hours to be counted from 120 to 40. I know that the practice has been for years that this education is given one hour a week at a school. I also understand that the proposers do not want to create a large post unexpectedly with their legislative proposal. I think that they are making a very kind gesture towards the government, because there was 120 hours, but the resources for that were never budgeted, let that be said. At the same time, a school that would like to deliver more than 40 hours will henceforth be curtailed by the bill. Is it known to the proposers whether there are schools where this is the case? How does the government feel about reducing this number of hours and the gesture that is being done here? According to the proposers, what are the possibilities for schools that want to make more hours? In several shrinking regions, it is hard work to maintain small schools, but these are often essential for the future of a village. Parents prefer to settle in a place with than in a place without school. I take it that the authors of this bill do not wish to propose that this should be regarded as offering an alternative to special education. Can they confirm that? Does the Secretary of State see it that way? In the past, the provision in Article 50 of the Primary Education Act underlines that public school can be a last resort for parents with a belief or belief that special education cannot provide, I also say to Mr Bruijn. This applies to humanist education, but also to smaller religious groups in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u118	I now hear in Mrs Bikker's contribution the possible fears that this would be an alternative to special education. Earlier, she interrupted me about my fear that this would lead to special education. In any case, she was in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u119	That is now in the Acts, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u120	My question is, how am I supposed to explain this? This is a very important point. Is Mrs Bikker, also from her party background, not afraid, as she has just asked, that special education will soon become superfluous, because parents in a public school can enforce and enjoy any form of religious or philosophical education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u121	With the approval of the President, and I can see that, because these days glances are also included in the Acts, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u122	Recording non-verbal communication in the Acts is a bit tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u123	Yeah, that's complicated. That's why I'm saying it anyway. I can be clip-and-ready about that. It has been the case for two centuries that parents in public education have been given the opportunity to ask for their children to have a little more philosophical education there. Fantastic. However, there is a Secretary of State, from your party, who wanted to put a line through that. There's also a batch of............................................................................................................................................................................................. I see the shrinkage at the schools in the North. Those two things together mean that there is one party that I fear would like to put the axe at the root of this whole thing, and that is Mr Bruijn's party. That's where my question comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u124	It's hard for me to interpret that. Mrs Bikker just asked the proposers whether the social security system in public schools would not be an alternative to special education. I understand that question very well. I asked that question myself. In fact, we already know the answer, so it is a rhetorical question from Mrs Bikker; so I know her, because she is good at rhetorical questions. Of course, this is a very good alternative to special education, and this is going to become more and more so when we start to fund it structuralally. In particular, parents could organise the curriculum themselves and add everything they wanted to it; that was the beauty of it. Soon special education will no longer be necessary because this is an alternative. If not, why did Mrs Bikker just ask that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u125	I am making another attempt, because apparently I did not explain it in such a way that Mr Bruijn thinks: aha! In particular, education is designed to the full extent of all the capillaries, from the deepest conviction there is. That could be a Christian belief or another. This is about public education, and that is really a difference, because there is education in accordance with public opinion. It is therefore accessible to all pupils. A little plus...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u126	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u127	Mrs Bikker is in the process of answering her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u128	Yeah, I'm sorry about this, because I'm here to explain the difference between the two and why I don't think you should put the axe at the root of this. However, I always see a party trying to pull it together, and that is Mr Bruijn's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u129	This means that the GVO in public schools can never be an alternative to the special education that Mrs Bikker just talked about. It can't be, because that's completely different, as she just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u130	How wonderful that Mr Bruijn now recognizes this, because in his contribution I did not get that clear. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u131	Then I'll come back to my question. Why...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u132	Mrs Bikker spoke briefly, Mr Bruijn. I understand you'd like to talk, but Mrs Bikker has a moment to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u133	We helped each other anyway. I heard a certain fear in Mr Bruijn's speech, and I also read that fear back with Mr Bruijn's party in the Acts of the House of Representatives. That fear is exactly why I want this clear for the future, partly in the light of legal history. There's gonna be a new cabinet, there's gonna be more cabinets, someday. Then it is good to be clear what it is about, what is the difference between public and special education. That's a whole other thing than that. Hence my question. Sometimes you can use a rhetorical style figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u134	Finally, I note that Mrs Bikker is asking for something that is not possible. That reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u135	I note that Mr Bruijn has just done at least the same in his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u136	Hundred years after the school competition, this is an exciting discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u137	Yeah, we'd be ready for a new pacification after, but I'm sure it'll work out. Mr. Chairman. Traditionally, the provision in Article 50 of the WPO also underlines that the public school can be a last resort for parents with a belief or belief that special education cannot provide. This applies not only to humanistic education, but also to smaller religious groups in the country, as the Jehovahs testify. The public school must be accessible to all children. I would like to thank the authors of this legislative proposal for their efforts in the field of education for all the children in these schools. It is of the utmost importance that children are provided with citizenship in a world that seems increasingly religious, that they can form their own identity and that they are able to relate to other religions. What this citizenship looks like must first be determined not by the State, but by the parents. The GVO/HVO fulfills the desire of those parents in many places and teaches children to respectfully stand with others in the world. The Dutch tradition has been one that gives space to this for many years. Hopefully, after today, the funds will also be allocated in a structural manner, so that uncertainty is removed. I look forward to the reply of the proposers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u138	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the authors of this proposal for their initiative and their commitment. We will support the proposal. I place that in the slightly broader perspective of the vision of education today. In my group's view, it is always a question of encouraging young people to develop in such a way that they can function optimally in society. This requires them to acquire sufficient knowledge and skills, but that is not enough. They must also be given the opportunity to develop their talents as much as possible. They also have the right to education as authentic and responsible citizens. This bill is about the latter aspect, because it also includes the philosophical dimension in all its diversity. The philosophical formation has two sides: a knowledge aspect, also called "teaching about religion" and a transfer respect, also called "teaching into religion." The knowledge aspect receives broad attention in key objective 38, the field of knowledge spiritual currents. I quote: "The students learn key issues about spiritual movements that play an important role in the Dutch multicultural society and they learn respectfully to deal with different opinions of people." This is extremely important in a philosophically multicolored society like ours, but that is not enough. Students should also learn to position themselves and understand themselves in relation to their own background. They must learn to reflect on philosophical and moral issues, rooted in a philosophical tradition. That too is part of the formation as a connection with and complement to what they get from home. None of that is new. It has been said several times and the authors themselves have made it clear in the explanatory statement: from the 19th century onwards, the structural component of our education system. The difference between public and special education is, by the way, already decreasing, and what we can talk about even more extensively at another time is not at all that public education would not allow for religion and beliefs. On the contrary, the public school leaves room for all directions and does not adopt its own religious or philosophical colour. By the way, the latter, this far-reaching neutrality, is new. Public education in the first half of the 19th century was supposed to be generally Christian, focused on the honor of the Supreme Being (1801) and aimed at all social and Christian virtues (1806). Get over that again today! Leaving room for all directions is also provided from the first education laws of the 19th century that the specific teaching system is given within the school by representatives of the philosophical movements. That is what is still happening, and that is what this bill is about. The need for a legislative proposal stems from something that is relatively new, namely that we also set quality standards for these denominational teachers. If we are to set quality standards, we must also ensure that salaries and support are properly arranged. My group attaches great importance to philosophical space and diversity. It is precisely for this reason that it attaches great importance to the quality of these teachers and this education. That quality is a necessary condition in order to prevent the philosophical formation, which we consider so important, from becoming sectarian and could compete with the preparation for the philosophically multicoloured society and the respect that is put at the heart of core objective 38. Good, personal philosophical education, which is in keeping with education, is worth a lot. It must remain connected with respectful dealings with others. The quality of teachers is essential for this. That is why this is an extremely sensible legislative proposal, for which we thank the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mr. Chairman. Education in our schools focuses mainly on what and not on why. The final product is increasingly important, rather than the road to it. I have always found this a missed opportunity, because education is the perfect way to teach young people that there is a what precedes a why. The question of why is the essence of our existence. How the answer to that question is answered is determined by culture, origin and experience, but that this question concerns us is beyond doubt. Asking this question also promotes education. It's called critical thinking, asking questions and daring to question. That is education at the heart of our democracy. Lifelong learning is indispensable in the education of a democratic society. And not least because of the great changes in our society, a change in the outlook for life. Some will argue that such events can be done perfectly in history, but that does not give the student himself the opportunity to think about why these changes occurred and how we can use them in the future. The right to philosophical education has been in place for a long time. It gives parents the opportunity to ask public school to also provide philosophical education. The problem is, however, that funding for this is not regulated by law. And, as the proposers argue, this not only hinders the provision of education, but also the quality of it. They now want to settle this by also anchoring funding in the law. My party considers this to be a sympathetic proposal because we believe that philosophy is not only the domain of schools founded on Christian or other religious foundations. However, this is not a non-binding law. By regulating the funding now from the Empire, one can also make demands to the teacher who gives this course. How do the proposers see this quality? Are the proposers in front of a lecturer who has expertise on the subject? My group is not in favour of hiring the vicar or imam, as is often the case now, precisely because of the lack of funding. Does the proposers believe that funding will lead to a change in the quality of teachers and, if so, why? I'd like a response. Then there's the next question. In our view, the profession of philosophy should also be a real philosophy of life and not, for example, the profession of Protestant Christianity with a sauce from other religions. I ask for this because this lesson is still too often called religion/life reflection. And this is really about the broader picture. View of life is to reflect on how one relates to the world and to himself and not just the interpretation of the Old Testament. I would like to see the views of the proposers on this. Finally, I have a question that was also raised in the debate with my colleague on the other side. In our opinion, philosophy should take a firm place in the field of philosophy. I believe, however, that the authors were talking about humanist philosophy at the time. They pointed out that this was one of the currents within the philosophy of life. This is precisely why I would like to stress that philosophy should be a broader part of the profession. If we look at the philosopher Kant, he was next to a philosopher also a Christian, who from philosophy gave substance to religion. The faith also played an important role in Hegel. Kierkegaard, the Dane, was not a fan of the latter. Kierkegaard opposed the institution church, but not the faith. At the time of the examination in the Lower House, the proposers found that we, as SP, are in favour of a broad interpretation of the concept of "living education." This is not just about religious education, but also about philosophy. In addition, many Eastern currents are actually philosophical directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u140	My heart thrives on so much philosophy and theology in one debate, but I want to get it right. Is Mrs Gerkens now talking about the importance of philosophy in the philosophy field as part of Key Goal 38, or is she referring to philosophy as part of GVO/HVO? I'm just losing my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u141	That is a very good question, but I would say the first. The tricky thing about today's debate is that we are talking about funding the profession and not about its further implementation, because then you will find yourself in a difficult split. I would like to do that with Mr Ganzevoort, but it seems to me that we should not do that now. I would like to pass this on to the proposers. I would also like to hear from the authors whether they share the opinion of the SP that philosophy and philosophical beliefs are an important part of philosophy and should therefore also be part of the lessons. I look forward to hearing the answers from the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Sini on his maiden speech. I look forward to the exchanges of views we will have. I would also like to express my appreciation for the commitment of the three proposers of this bill. I don't know if it was their intention, but they picked a good time. Just 2017 is the year in which the educational pace is commemorated. Of course, I do not place this bill entirely in that historical context, but there are parallels, particularly in terms of funding: from self-financing, to subsidy, to funding. History repeats itself, although small. After all, far before the pacification, deep in the 19th century, a similar process took place from self-payment to subsidy. For the forerunners of my party, and later for the founders of the SGP, funding for special education was not a matter of course. In fact, the old ideal, which is still in the principle programme of the SGP, says: "The government is concerned that all education is in accordance with the norm of God's Word." All education, including public education. In any case, subsidies were more and more accepted when the government started to set more and more quality standards for schools, which made it increasingly difficult to pay for themselves. And, to make a long story short, the subsidy ended up on equal pay, in 1917. This line is reflected in the present bill. In the past it was common practice in many places to offer religious education to the public school. Often by volunteers, or by the local preacher who saw this as part of his official work. And mostly irrelevant. This became problematic when the government started demanding quality and professionalism. It costs money. It is therefore logical that subsidies were given. But that again calls for continuity, so that the acquired expensive knowledge and experience do not leak out. So the next step is also logical, namely the funding. That's what this bill is for. There's nothing wrong with that. After all, subsidy is possible according to the law, and according to the Education Council there is also no constitutional obstacle to the granting of state aid. But that has to be done very precisely. For this reason, HVO and GVO are separate from the core objective 38, which is to say, "I have already talked to Mr Bruijn about this: "The students learn key issues about spiritual flows that play an important role in the Dutch multicultural society, and they learn to deal respectfully with different people's views." This is a key objective that applies both in public and in particular education. That public education does not, by the way, call the sg a flattened education. That was more of a reaction to Mr Bruijn's interruption, because of the way in which he reasoned away all the pluses I appointed. Then you're gonna get to that smashed-up public education. That's what we shouldn't have. The aim of HVO and GVO is to further deepen philosophical or religious education of children in public schools at the request of their parents. Public schools act as hosts, but the responsibility for content and quality lies with the providers. It is also a good thing that an amendment by Mr Bishop led to the following addition to the law: "The competent authority informs parents in the school guide about the possibility of receiving religious education or philosophical education." The question is what happens if more children take advantage of this possibility. Is it an option to consider whether the funding can be made per participating pupil? The explanatory memorandum states that of the 10 million grants, 94% are now used for teacher lessons and quality assessment, and 6% for five employers' foundations and their services centre. Do the applicants and the Secretary of State consider that this distribution of funds is sufficient? Should there be a ceiling on the overhead? In what way does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that the question has been asked earlier today about the involvement of wage and price developments? HVO and GVO offer parents additional opportunities to put a plus on education. It's got shadow sides, too. For the SGP, the high ideal of Christian education and education is high on the agenda. But imagine there are religious movements or beliefs to give this education that calls for, for example, violence against population groups, anti-Semitism or other forms of hatred and violence. How can it be ensured, according to the proposers, that hvo/gvo is given from the point of view of "subject to everyone's responsibility for the law"? Finally. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that hvo and gvo can lead to mutual understanding, to the removal of prejudices about each other and to a deeper understanding of our country's Christian tradition. My group looks forward to the answers from the authors and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u143	I have a question for clarification from Mr Schalk. I'm trying to pull two things apart. Firstly, the fact that it is proposed here to convert a subsidy scheme into structural funding, and secondly, that the amount of that funding, whether it be a grant or a structural funding, is the amount of that funding. The latter can be said to be sufficient at least once the scheme is in place, and then you can look at the quality of education. But regardless of the size, does Mr Schalk say that a sudden conversion from a subsidy scheme to structural funding is necessary because otherwise knowledge is leaking? The Council of State has asked questions about this. I would like to ask Mr Schalk what this is all about. What shows that knowledge is leaking? We've had it for seven years. It's running. Is knowledge really leaking away? Is it hard to find teachers? What is to convince my group that this is necessary? This is quite apart from the scale of the funding, as it can be used both in the grant scheme and in the structural funding scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u144	Thank you for this question. It may indeed be necessary to clarify this. Essentially, the problem is that a grant is very easy to give or withdraw. We all know the examples of subsidy flows that are suddenly cut off because, for example, the economy is not doing so well; I mention only a cross street of recent years. What if that were to happen on this subject? In recent years, you have invested enormously in people who want to provide this education through the knowledge centres, the employers' foundations and so on. And there are parents in public education who seem to think that this is so valuable that it may, at least at the moment, cost EUR 10 million. If you say "just let it be subsidiary," there is a risk that the subsidy will stop once and parents will have to pay for it themselves. By the way, I would say to parents: if it is, you will have to do it. However, if we agree that we need to deliver quality and that teachers should be trained with a good professional attitude to work, we should also try not to leak out what has been built up. And leaking out can be easier with a grant than with a solid funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u145	Two questions. First of all... This reasoning applies to any subsidy scheme. So the SGP should be in favour of converting all subsidies into structural funding. After all, you always have that relative uncertainty in a subsidy. Second. Have we not created this problem correctly by allowing GVO and HVO in public schools? We have created special education, a protected environment with structural funding. That's where it takes place. There is no continuity; there you do not have all the disadvantages of a subsidy scheme. There parents can copy and supplement the entire curriculum of the public school with everything they want; that was the beauty of that appointment. The problem that Mr Schalk is now describing has been created by combining public education with the idea of philosophical education and religious education. Then it is logical that the solution is not yet another step towards further uncertainty, but rather a step towards what was originally intended, namely the security of special education and its continuity by anchoring and protecting it in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u146	First of all, is the SGP in favour of converting all subsidies into funding? I'll have to fight that argument. The special feature of this subsidy is that it is offered for something that the legislator himself said we should offer in public schools. However, most subsidies are of course requested by organisations that are themselves developing their own knowledge, who have set up an organisation on any subject and who then say: it is very expensive government, can you not participate? Of a number of subsidies, I would say'stop it, government', but we should not start naming them now. In this case, however, it is a subsidy for an aspect which the government itself has said in legislation that it should actually offer in public education. Then there is the second question. Can you tell me what it is again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u147	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u148	My second question is whether we have not created this problem by deviating from the system that we had just created to protect special education and to give parents the freedom to set it up as they wish. That's article...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u149	Mr. Schalk's got him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u150	I got him again, thank you, Madam President. We didn't create the problem ourselves by saying: we already have special education, why do you have to do this...? Apparently, there has been a solid foundation in the past under the aspect that this should be allowed to parents who are very consciously opting for public education. I am a great admirer and supporter of special education; but I would really be very sorry to say as a counterpart: public education but not. I would also be very sorry if such a plus, as I called it, could be massaged away. We may have achieved it ourselves, we may have created something that you now have to ask whether it should continue through subsidies or funding. But if we created it, then do it in a good way. Then I would say to the Secretary of State: help us figure out how we can manage the funding well in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u151	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u152	I give the floor to Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u153	Mr. Chairman. What an honor to be standing here, together with my colleagues Voordewind and Rog, in your Chamber in this beautiful historic place to enjoy your mutual debate and also to be able to defend our legislative initiative between so much wisdom and experience. On behalf of my fellow petitioners, I would like to congratulate Mr Sini on his maiden speech. I'm sure I'll do the same on behalf of all my colleagues in the House of Representatives. On behalf of my fellow Members, I would like to thank all the senators for the thorough attention they have devoted to our legislative proposal. In particular, we thank those Members who have pledged all their support for our legislative proposal. We will be happy to answer all the questions. We have tabled this bill and are now coming to your Chamber to defend it with conviction, because we attach great importance to the availability of religious education and humanist education in public primary schools. Our children and grandchildren are growing up in an extremely complex world, in which they are gradually developing a philosophical and moral compass that allows them to pursue their journey as consciously and resiliently as possible and to reflect on what they consider important, such as the question my daughter recently received. This is her little folder "Gvo is fun"; she also colored it nicely. The question she was asked during class was: Suppose you later become an important person who has a lot of people under her, for example the boss of a large company or a minister. What would you wish for to be able to do right? Put a line under your choice.. peace, wealth, power, wisdom, happiness, health, much knowledge... and explain your choice. Children like to talk about this type of questions. They also have a lot of questions about how the world works, how people live and what happens when people die and why people are all so different and how people have to deal with each other. Children already think a lot about it and beautiful child attitudes come out. Today there is a great need for this, for a long time. The children consider the lessons of humanistic education or religious education as valuable lessons they remember when something happens in their lives which is nice or very sad, because they are allowed to define their own vision and direction and because the lessons form the connection between the world of life at home and that of school. It promotes the development of the child. It helps them develop their own view of the world, life and their own identity. Or, as Mrs Gerkens pointed out, the question of why is put at the heart of these lessons. It also helps them to have an eye for what your belief in life can mean to people. As Mr Ganzevoort pointed out: learning to reflect and root in the philosophical vision. This bill is necessary to ensure its continuity and quality. In doing so, we are protecting the right of parents to ask for this education for their children, as Mrs De Vries-Legge pointed out. This is provided for in Article 50 of the Primary Education Act. We protect teachers' working conditions, which, according to their collective agreement, should be equal to those of ordinary group teachers. We also have broad support for this from many organisations. We also received a lot of support for this bill from the House of Representatives. At present, there is the annual uncertainty for parents, teachers and public primary schools as to whether the subsidy will be available next year. Mr Pijlman referred to that too. The grant of 10 million euros has been in existence since 2009, but the House of Representatives had to intervene in 2013 to keep it up, because the cabinet wanted to delete it. Mrs Bikker also mentioned this in her speech. The House of Representatives has repeatedly voted by a large majority in favour of the structuralization of this form of education. With this bill, we lay down the financial responsibility of the government in the law. I'll tell you a few things about this. Mr Voordewind will talk about staff and about growth and Mr Rog will talk about finances. We lay down the responsibility in the law, as a final piece in a long history in which the legislator already in 1878, the liberal Kappeyne cabinet of the Coppollo, ruled that children...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u154	Kappeyne from the Coppello.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u155	Coppello?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u156	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u157	Look, you happen to know that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u158	Well, not by chance, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u159	The liberal Kappeyne cabinet of the Coppello stated that children in public education are entitled to philosophical education within the regular curriculum. This is a history in which religious education and humanistic education in successive primary education law of 1920, the Law on Primary Education of 1981 and the current Law on Primary Education were given an increasingly clear place within the public school curriculum. This bill does not change anything, just this enforceable right of parents. This bill, as it were, brings the circle around, namely the necessary funding of this education as an essential part of the public school system. It is, after all, the basic idea of the legislator and the constitutionalist that the necessary mental neutrality of the public school as a general basic provision for all beliefs should not mean that a parent is actually forced to opt for special education when it comes to receiving identity-oriented education. That is what I am saying to Mr Bruijn, who asked whether the neutrality of public education is under threat. The link between education and education must also remain here, in public school. Mr Bruijn pointed out that his party had always had great difficulty with this. That is a remarkable remark, because it is precisely the liberals who fought for the regulation that we have had for many years. In 1878, the Liberals fought for a significant improvement in public school. In the School Act, the legislator placed religious education at the public primary school within the school time regime. It was the liberals who fought for it. That was not enough for the liberal majority. It had to be prevented that this education would actually be made impossible by its opponents. There had to be a legal guarantee for practice that schoolrooms would be heated and illuminated free of charge if necessary. Through an amendment by the well-known liberals Roëll, Godefroi and Patijn, this guarantee came into the law. Minister Kappeyne was very much in favour of this. In his words, of course, it is not the government's intention to leave the poor children in the cold and in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u160	And we are still in favour of teaching religions in public education. And we are still in favour of parents prefering to teach their children about their religion in depth, then having the opportunity to set up a school themselves. We are very consistent in that. My question to Mrs Ypma is where she sees this discord.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u161	If you explain that in this way, you can simply agree to our bill and there is no disapproval at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u162	It wasn't about the bill right now. It was about the history that Mrs Ypma put forward, in which the liberals have indeed fought for freedom of education: if someone wants to set up their own education, that must be possible. In addition, we have the state-organized education. That is neutral and there attention is paid to all religions, in heated rooms. That is what we have always fought for. In addition, we have not fought for a moment to be added to public education when children are taken out of the classroom and in a small group specifically in depth about one religion, namely that of their parents and not that of another, still receive separate education. That is a mixture of two things that were separate in that for which we have always fought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u163	It was not just more than 100 years ago that the Liberals fought for it. The motion already referred to by several of Mr Bruijn's fellow senators was also supported by the VVD. This motion was not about a broad subsidy, but about one part and stated: Whereas religious and humanistic education is one of the key objectives of public education and calls on the government to strive to ensure that funds for humanistic education and religious education are made available in the budget of OCW in primary public education. That is the full text of that motion, which was supported by fellow party members of Mr Bruijn on the other side, in the House of Representatives, in 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u164	That's right. I understand that Mrs Ypma is now stepping away from her interpretation of history, which we were just talking about. It is true that we now agree that the liberals have always fought for freedom of education for people who want to regulate education for their children, and that public education also pays attention to religions in general. Mrs Ypma now moves on to another issue in her answer. That's what I'm gonna follow. That is a subject that has already been dealt with extensively in the Lower House in the same way. I'd be happy to do that again. That motion was part of a larger package. Like her party on parts of the package that was called the coalition agreement, we had to knee-deep in there. Then it is not appropriate to say: you were before or against it. Despite your own opinion, you can still compromise on the bigger picture. I am happy to enter into that discussion again, but then we repeat something that has already been literally discussed in the House of Representatives as a political discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u165	No, I really don't think we're on the same page. I have just argued that the motion was not part of a larger package. This motion dealt specifically with this subject. Moreover, I have tried to argue that for 100 years the liberals were in favour of religious education and humanistic education in public schools and that this should be financed by the government. It is only since this year that a turn of 180 degrees has been made by the VVD and I find that remarkable. That's what I've been trying to explain here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u166	Finally, Mr Bruijn, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u167	That last point: we are certainly in favour of religious education and so on, but for all students at a school and not for one separate club. That is not good for integration either. Then there's the motion. That motion was one motion, but it was part of a larger package in which agreements were made with each other. If that is an unknown phenomenon for Mrs Ypma, we must discuss it further. That's what happens. You can't always trace from a party's voting behaviour over a larger whole that that party is for or against something that's in there. The same applies to the coalition agreement, which includes the party of Mrs Ypma herself. There are parts in it that she has trouble with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u168	It is funny that Mr Bruijn is trying to explain to me how things went in the House of Representatives. Because that's just not how it happened. Several motions have been tabled. It wasn't one package. The VVD voted for some motions and against others. She has voted in favour of this motion. Then his other point. Parents can have different beliefs. If we take parents' freedom of choice seriously, that means you have different groups. It is integrated as much as possible, but it is also given in different groups of religious education or humanistic education. I go to schools every Monday and Friday. I see a lot of schools inside and talk to the children, the parents and the teachers. It is no longer the case that only classrooms are taught to the whole group. Many schools are all composed of different groups that deal with subjects and receive lessons. I myself give a plus-class at my own children's school, which Mr Bruijn should address to children who can use some extra challenge. I'm gonna take those kids out of class, too, and I'm gonna offer them a little extra challenge. So that is something that belongs to this time, which I think Mr Bruijn can only appreciate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u169	I said last chance, Mr Bruijn. You may still have ieniemini...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u170	In fact, that motion was part of a larger package as a political agreement. If Mrs. Ypma denies that, we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u171	As it happens, I was there and you weren't, Mr Bruijn. That's kind of interesting. Mr. Chairman. The current Article 50 of the Primary Education Act on the possibility of religious or philosophical education within school hours is based directly on the third paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution on the character of the public school. The deletion of this article would therefore be contrary to the intention of the constitutionalist, I repeat Mr Pijlman. Mr Schalk also pointed out that it is a good thing that we are talking about this 100 years after the pacification at the moment. That's right, that's a good time. Gvo and HVO at the public school are therefore by no means obsolete. It's not just there for children of religious parents. It's an offer to all parents. However, since it is a question of religion and belief, it cannot be a compulsory part of the school curriculum of the public school. It's a right of parents, not a duty. As Mrs De Vries-Legge pointed out, it is at most a duty to make it possible. If it is a right of parents, it is a duty to make this possible. We fully endorse what a member of your Chamber who herself attended a public school with religious education in her youth last year in a daily interview said about the importance of religious education in public school. "If you want to understand our painting and sculpture, our literature and our culture, you must understand the Bible. If our children cannot understand a painting by Rembrandt with a biblical performance, we are far from home. Besides, who knows exactly what Easter is, what Pentecost is? That is precisely what you can do with religious education." So much for your colleague. Now perhaps you will ask: is this not the task of the public school itself and should pupils not learn about all the religions and beliefs that are present in our country? Sure. One of the tasks of each primary school, i.e. both public and special schools, is also the field of study of mental trends, as laid down in Article 9 of the Primary Education Act for which the core objective 38 applies. The students learn key issues about spiritual movements that play an important role in the Dutch multicultural society. I would like to say to Mr Bruijn that this is not at the expense of curriculum parts, nor is it at the expense of special education at the expense of curriculum parts. I can reassure him on that. It is a deepening of this, just as it is taking place in particular in education. A lot of parents choose this, along with their kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u172	Then I misunderstood. Ms. Ypma confirms that this education is not given during other teachings to other students in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u173	That's right. This does not lead to problems in practice either. There has never been a problem about this, so I can reassure Mr Bruijn in that too. Mrs Gerkens asked about a number of things that we also discussed in the House of Representatives. Humanist education is well in line with the principles of the SP. The course has been developed and many teachers have been trained. She also talked about humanist philosophy and asked whether it should also be part of the core goals. Yes, we also believe that this should be part of the core objectives. However, we would also like to point out that we must not lose sight of the fact that humanism is a philosophy of life alongside the other and not the basis of public school. There, according to Article 23 of the Constitution, everyone's religion or belief should be respected. Furthermore, we share the SP's wish that more attention should be paid to the importance of conscious consideration of life for all pupils in primary schools. Everyone needs that compass for life and that goal is also brought closer by hvo and gvo. The legislative proposal therefore also aims to preserve the lessons in public education. We agree with Mrs Gerkens that philosophy is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u174	A little correction. I was just saying that it should not be specifically humanistic education, but, just as Mrs Ypma last said, philosophy should also have an important place in it. For the rest, I fully agree with the authors that it is precisely as broad as possible that all aspects of philosophy should come to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u175	Thank you very much for this clarification. The public school should be socially neutral, because there is separation of Church and State in public education. For this reason, the identity-oriented GVO and HVO cannot be the responsibility of the public school. That is why the legislator entrusted this to bodies from the religions and beliefs and formed GVO and HVO a separate sector within public education with its own funding. Of course, consultations always take place with the school directors concerned. Mr Voordewind will deal with this later. Because of the nature of public education, this can only be optional. It is not followed by all pupils and the classes have to be separated for an hour. But that is common in primary education nowadays, as I have just said to Mr Bruijn. At the same time, GVO-HVO is working on pilots to strengthen cross-pollination and promote the participation of the entire class. Mr Sini asked a question about the inspection. According to the Education Supervision Act, inspection supervision is reluctant. It states that the inspection is in principle competent to enter any place in the school where educational activities take place. Everyone within the school is obliged to provide all cooperation that can reasonably be required. According to the Law on Primary Education, the provision of HVO/GVO is covered by the concept of "educational activities." However, given the special position of religious education and special education, there is a cautious attitude towards the inspection. In other words, the inspection will only examine hvo/gvo if there is reason to do so. In the event of a reasonable suspicion of criminal offences, such as insulting a population group or inciting discrimination, the inspection must involve the prosecution in accordance with Article 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr Sini asked whether, if the school itself asks, the inspection could supervise these lessons. The authors of this bill are very much in agreement with that. As far as we are concerned, the inspection could also extend to public education. The public school could therefore ask, but perhaps also the service centre itself, which teaches the lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u176	I mentioned the letter from 2003. Does this mean that what is in it is being implemented into public education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u177	Yes. As far as the authors of this bill are concerned, this could be implemented. Perhaps I can challenge the Secretary of State to give his views on that. Mr Sini asked who has what responsibility. The service centre is responsible for the quality and competence of the professional teachers, to sum up under the requirement of validity, which others have also spoken of. This is regulated by the Law on Occupations in Education (Law BIO). The competent authority has a derived responsibility in that there is ex post control of the competence, competence and morality of the professional teachers. After all, they teach at the school where the competent authority is responsible for the proper conduct of affairs, for peace and for order. There is also quality control through the inspection, but so far it has been reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u178	I'd like to go back to Church and State. The separation between them is about the ecclesiastical power and the political power, which should not be in the same hands and should not affect each other. How do you link that to this theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u179	That's what I've just been trying to explain. For us, Article 23 stands as a house. Through the separation of Church and State, public education can never be responsible for the content of religious education or humanistic education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u180	I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. For me too, it is an honor and a pleasure to be standing here again. I have been able to do this a few times before, on very different subjects. But I think it's an honor to have another bill dealt with here. I must say that over the years the political content of the members of this Chamber has increased: I have never seen so many interruptions in the handling of a legislative proposal. That is encouraging, because that only improves the proposal. I shall confine myself to the block of staff and working conditions. Mr Ypma has already said something about this. This legislative proposal anchors the legal status and equality of teachers who give hvo/gvo with fellow teachers. They've been in uncertainty all these years about whether the grant would go through. Fortunately, as a Chamber, we have been able to correct that a few times. But we do not want to have that discussion every three years; hence this bill. I respectfully look at all those teachers who have worked for the HVO/GVO. While their fellow teachers were getting raises, they were satisfied with the status quo, so that they could teach those students who are involved. Much respect for that. This is indeed a deepening of core target 38, acting on spiritual currents. It is not imposed on anyone, because parents themselves must actively state that they want this education for their children. Parents have support: 50% of parents in public education ask for this. 600 professional teachers are involved in this. 75,000 children receive hvo/gvo, which is one third of the total supply in primary education. With this, I want to show that the parents have great support. Mrs De Vries asked if there was any growing interest as a result of this initiative proposal. Mrs Bikker asked the same kind of question. Mr Bruijn, like the CDA, asked about the possible amount of 15 million which might have to be available in the future. First of all, we see an opposite development. We're seeing a shrink in student numbers. Indeed, the legislative proposal may lead to an increase in the number of lessons and pupils in the short term. That is why we expect an annual volume increase of 2%. The annual EUR 10 million available in 2009 was sufficient for that time, but is no longer sufficient. That is why a new financial regulation is needed. We want to prevent the legal provisions on hvo/gvo from becoming a dead letter. The increase in wages and prices must be taken into account at some point in time. There should therefore be room for a possible increase in demand. Mr Sini, Mr Bruijn and Mrs Gerkens asked who is actually responsible for the provision of religious and humanistic education. Since hvo/gvo should be professionally cared for, the teachers are therefore also covered by the quality requirements resulting from the 2004 Law BIO. As a result, professional teachers, like regular teachers, must meet the requirements of competence and morality. Mrs Gerkens thinks that it should not be the case that we put pastors, priests or imams in front of the classroom. Again: no, these are really professional teachers who have either done the pabo with a note for theological or other kinds of education, or are theologians, with a didactic note. They must comply with the competence and competence requirements of the Law BIO, which apply to all teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u182	Just as a footnote: is it possible that a minister, imam or pastor also meets those requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u183	So they would have had to take a didactic supplementary education. They can't just go straight from the pulpit to the schoolrooms, they must have gotten a didactic note for that. As described in the explanatory memorandum, the GVO Service Centre and HVO must ensure compliance with the Occupational Law in education and the requirements of competence. I would like to stress once again that these are people who have taken an HBO, a vocational training course, and are in possession of a didactic note. That demand was made earlier by the Lower House through the Kraneveld amendment. This point has therefore been made compulsory. The competence requirements of teachers hvo and gvo apply to all group teachers. The requirements of competence and the conditions of funding have become clear through the Law on Primary Education. Article 51 states that the competent authority shall ensure that such education is given only by a teacher who, according to a certificate from the designating authority, satisfies the requirements of competence and the conditions of competence. In this way we indicate that there is also a separation between the Church and the State in public education. It is not possible for the State to interfere with the content of the lessons. It belongs to the service centre. Mr Pijlman of D66 asked for clarification on the comments made by my group chairman. I am speaking on behalf of the Christian Union. That is not customary, because the other applicants have not been able to say their views on this. Let me clarify this point. My group chairman said that he would like public education to be supported by the parents as well. It is not so much a question of abolishing public education but of making public education special. Some parties are on the other side and say: let us abolish special education. We would very much regret that, because all the parties behind this table attach great importance to Article 23 and to special education. For that reason, those comments were made. I note that there is neither support for the proposal to convert public education into special education at this time nor in the Upper House, unless you state all this now. Until then, we are going with full force for this bill, with the aim of obtaining formal education in public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u184	I happen to have the transcription of that radio program here. It said: "What I would like is that not only the parents in particular should be in charge of education, but also the parents in public education. So then you would abolish public education in this form." So it is true that we are talking about abolishing public education, whereas the proposal before us is intended to make public education a little better, at least in the eyes of the Christian Union. How is that consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u185	We do not see that proposal happening one-two-three. That's gonna take a long time. It is specifically about replacing public education by giving it back to the parents. This means increasing parental involvement in public education, of which different forms exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u186	Mr. Fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u187	Thank you for this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u188	Mr Pijlman, I mean, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u189	I thought, "I'm not responding."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u190	I'd be happy to listen. That's it. I call Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u191	Thank you for this clarification. I find it remarkable that a Christian party is questioning Article 23. If you want to specialise in public education, you do something with Article 23. In fact, the position of parents in public education is not much different from that of the many foundations that govern special education. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u192	What Mr Pijlman says is true. It's future music and it actually goes beyond the scope of this bill. For the Christian Union, future music is to see if we can involve parents even more in public education than we have until now. There are a number of differences at the moment, but as far as we are concerned, this involvement could be extended even further, so that parents' freedom of choice can be increased. Mr Pijlman asked about the directions. His plea was to give parents more opportunities to give rise to different directions of a teaching-eductic nature. The Secretary of State will shortly come forward with a bill to present these possibilities to both Chambers. Maybe he'll say something about that later. Mrs Bikker asked if there would be a General Administrative Measure. The answer to her question is yes. There's an AMvB in preparation. It sets out specifications for the financing and financing of this bill. We've been working on that. It concerns in particular the purpose and level of the grant, the method of application, the minimum group size and so on. Indeed, this needs to be completed further. She asked whether that also had to do with the content of the lessons. No, with the AMvB only the practical matters and the funding are regulated, not the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u193	I'll be back at the AMvB for a short while. Mr Voordewind says that it regulates the practical aspects of financing. Does this mean that the 10 million is no longer decisive, but that the teaching of education, the legal status of teachers, the size of groups and the financing of teachers as they take place in mainstream public education form the basis of the AMvB? Does this also mean that funding should not be called into question anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u194	The short answer to that is yes. We link these teachers to the collective agreement of the education sector. HVO and GVO teachers have to take part in the collective agreement of education. That's the bet. That is why we say that there must be 2% volume growth and a link to the collective agreement, i.e. indexation and a link to the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u195	I am asking a question for clarification, not just for me, but for several colleagues. So the volume growth of 2% is locked in the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u196	That needs to be further worked out. We mentioned the 2% volume growth and the necessary funding for this in the explanatory memorandum and in the examination of this bill in the House of Representatives, which is part of the interpretation of the law. Both indexation and volume growth have been mentioned explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u197	I have two questions. When does Mr Voordewind expect the AMvB to be ready? Is that on August 1st, when the bill comes into force? And what is the 2% based on? I read that in the big cities, the G4, there is much less of this kind of education. Schools now think: hey, that's possible! How's it going? Is that settled, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u198	When will the AMvB be ready? I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Together with the Services Centre GVO and HVO we have created a concept-AMvB. It's being discussed with the Ministry right now. The answer to the question when exactly it is ready is left to the Secretary of State. Where did the 2% come from? That percentage was determined in consultation with the service centre. The service centre has designed this on the basis of history, i.e. on the basis of the growth that has taken place at the moment. There is indeed a small growth in volume. This also has to do with the availability of teachers. It can't be that volume growth will increase faster, because then the service centre really has a problem with educating teachers. It is now based on the current numbers. It may be, as the CDA has already indicated, that parents will be more aware of this bill, its financing and its anchoring. An amendment of the SGP was also adopted in the Lower House, stating that it should be included in the school guides. This may be a reason for a small growth spurt, but in order to keep it realistic, we ourselves indicated a limitation by calling it 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u199	Teaching teachers takes four years. At least, that's the regular HBO time. If many teachers sign up for the training if there is a lot of demand, then that question cannot be met at that time. Then the 2% rule, if I understand correctly? I've lost my other question, so I owe you one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u200	The service centre can vary and turn on different buttons. For example, you can make the classes slightly larger when you lack teachers. In doing so, I am ahead of Mr Rog's contribution, so I shall not say much more about it than this. This allows you to absorb a slightly larger growth temporarily if you still have too few teachers. But if this bill is adopted, teacher training will also be based on 2% growth and more teachers will have to be trained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u201	What's the lead in funding? The budget or giving these forms of education? In a public school too, the number of pupils may be higher in one year than in the other year, and then the funding will increase. Is the budget still leading or is it just being looked at, as in mainstream public education, how much money is needed to finance this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u202	Parents' questions have been taken into account. If there are more students, the budget does not automatically increase. That question from parents may indeed increase a little. With the service center, we estimated the volume growth at 2%. This also has to do with the assessment of the finances needed for the coming years, towards 2025. In that year, we could be on about 15 million. So there are limits to it. It can't be that 20 million would suddenly be needed, because we'd be writing uncovered cheques. With the service centre, we do expect a growth of 2% based on historical growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u203	Mrs De Vries, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u204	Very briefly. I would never write an uncovered check, so neither would I in this case. However, I am concerned about what is leading. Is that the cost of these forms of education? Then, as with public education, you can say at some point that the quality requirements or whatever should be a little more or less. Or is it budget-leading? If it's budget-leading, we'll be standing here more often to see if you make this possible or impossible in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u205	So far, the budget has been leading, because with that the service centre had to do it. That was the 10 million a year released by the Ministry. So that was the limitation. Because these wages have not been able to rise in recent years, we say: what is realistic now? Thus, with the service centre, we have achieved a growth of 2%, in addition to the indexation of wages. If the demand suddenly explodes, the budget is not unlimited. We are well aware of that. This is different from the system of the number of pupils, but a realistic growth scenario has been described. That is also the aim of the proposers. If there are more questions about the finances, I would refer you to Mr Rog. I confine myself to the quality of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mrs Bikker, do you have a question about the money or about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u207	Yeah, my question is about money. So I'm saving my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u208	I'll finish this part. Mr Schalk asked how HVO education relates to everyone's responsibility for the law. This also applies to the possibility of inspection, even at the request of the service centre. Every teacher of course knows how to keep to the restrictions, as they are in the law. There is no way that a teacher can incite discrimination, hatred or violence against any group in society, including our Jewish fellow citizens. Mrs Bikker has asked if there are schools that provide this education for more than 40 hours a year. We checked in the suspension. That does not seem to be the case. Mrs Bikker could ask the follow-up question whether schools which consider it desirable have the possibility of giving more than 40 hours. To that question too, the answer is no. The 40-hour limit is due to the law that has been in force since 2004, which lays down the adequacy requirements. So that 40 hours is really a given for the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u209	Before you hand over the stick to Mr. Rog, the following. I've asked for further training and further training. Next week we are having the debate on the teacher register. How's that taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u210	The budget takes account of further training and further training. That too is the positive thing about anchoring in the law. The finances we provide, including indexation, also take into account further training and further training. I apologize for not answering that question. In doing so, I hope to have answered my part of the questions and give the floor to Mr Rog. I'm sorry. I'll do that through the chairman, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u211	Mr Rog, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u212	Mr President, thank you very much for allowing me to speak here. Why provide structural funding for religious education and humanistic education? For more than 200 years, parents have had the legal right to do so, now laid down in Articles 50 and 51 of the Primary Education Act. Mrs De Vries-Legge has already referred to this in her contribution. As early as 2008, there was a Chamber decision on the other side in order to achieve structural funding. That statement has not so far been laid down in concrete policy. In fact, in 2013, the current Secretary of State even tried to remove that subsidy. Mr Bruijn has indicated that he is not standing here to abolish the subsidy. That's a reassuring announcement. Mr Bruijn asked why a structural subsidy was not introduced instead of structural funding, as proposed by the proposers. Mrs Bikker actually answered that question in her first term: the current subsidy scheme is accompanied by great uncertainty. For example, the intention was to withdraw the subsidy altogether, but it is also about the legal status of employees. Mrs De Vries-Leggeby rightly added that subsidies cannot be structural for more than four years. The groups of VVD and CDA have asked questions about financial coverage. I would like to make it clear once again that the lion's share, EUR 10 million, is already covered. The initiators are suggesting that this was also discussed with my colleague, Mr Voordewind, in the interrupting debate just now in order to set the maximum volume growth at 2% per year. This will ensure that the total amount can reach a maximum of EUR 15 million in 2025. That is a maximum growth of EUR 5 million over the next eight years. Mr Pijlman has already indicated that we as initiators are not asking over. I would like to confirm this on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u213	If I understand correctly, a 2% growth is taken into account and wage indexation is also taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u214	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u215	If I have understood correctly, this 10 million has been racketeering for some years, and the teachers' salaries have been linked since, I believe, 2009 to those of teachers in primary education; this should only clarify the applicant. My question is as follows. How is the hole created from the moment the amount of 10 million has started to crunch repaired? The teachers have said "we don't need a wage increase for a while," but that gap needs to be repaired. How's that gonna be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u216	Mrs Bikker rightly says that the total subsidy amount has not been indexed in recent years. We want to change this because we believe that, now that religious and humanistic education is part of the prerequisites, it is only natural that the teachers who teach it should also see their wages indexed in a normal way, as is the case with other teachers in primary education. That's where the current subsidy budget breaks down. By making this subject of the usual funding system, salaries could simply be indexed. On top of that, there can be maximum growth of 2% per year. Mrs Bikker deserves further clarification. We have said that this ceiling can be reached in different ways, for example by increasing the minimum number of pupils using GVO or HVO or limiting the number of years offered by GVO or HVO in a school. It is now offered in six years, from group three to group eight. This can be limited if demand increases significantly. As proposers, we ensure that there will never be more than 2% volume growth. We're turning other buttons to limit ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u217	I find that very friendly, moderate and subdued of the proposers. I also understand that they do not want to grow incessantly and impetuously. At the same time, this bill provides for structural funding for the demand arising from Article 50. Frankly, I am surprised by this moderation because it restricts Article 50. Can Mr Rog go into that? My other question concerns the bridging loan. Is that settled or not? I didn't get that all worked up in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u218	Article 50 provides that children can receive this education at the public school for which parents can choose. We are now securing that right. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out once again that these parents are currently at risk of a state secretary of the VVD's house cutting through this subsidy scheme. The aim of the proposers is to finance this in a structural manner, so that this uncertainty can be overcome. At the same time, however, we point out that for practical reasons linked to the training of large quantities of teachers, it does not seem feasible to achieve more than 2% volume growth. We prefer that parents who want to do so for their children should be able to claim it throughout the country. We would rather raise the standard of the number of students in such a class than limit the number of years. In addition, as Mrs Bikker pointed out in her speech, we have limited the number of hours paid from three hours to one hour per week. In this way, on the one hand, we are trying to make it sufficient and, on the other hand, Mr Bruijn will particularly appeal to us to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u219	I haven't even made a call yet to cut costs. I assume that there is a macro budget based on the estimate of the total number of pupils. If more students go to public education in there than to special education, I assume that money will follow. The answer I expected to answer my question is that it would be communicating vessels, that this would be resolved within the budget of OCW and that the money would follow the students. This is precisely what I am afraid of as a supporter of freedom of education, namely that it is being sucked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u220	We now have the amount of 10 million, which will be increased gradually to 15 million. With this bill, we will ensure that parents can claim this right when they are in need of religious or humanistic education. That will therefore be financed by the government. By allowing this subject to be a matter of the current funding system, we are actually solving this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u221	But then I understand that this is at the expense of financing special education, which then drains out. That question goes back a bit. Because there's not going to be more children than we estimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u222	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u223	If there is less influx in particular education and more in public education, whether or not linked to this legislative amendment, then there will also be more money flowing into public education. In doing so, we immediately have the answer to the question of where the cover is and to Mrs Bikker's question as to whether this will not be an alternative, even in the financial sense, to special education. In doing so, we immediately have the core of my party's objection to this movement, namely that it is the axe at the root of special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u224	I shall leave that final conclusion to Mr Bruijn. That's just what we've been talking about. I'll deal with his financial concerns. If more children go to primary education, this Secretary of State will not be responsible for the resources, but his minister will have more resources for education in relation to the number of additional children in primary education. That will also be the case for religious and humanistic education, with the note that we are setting a cap, a ceiling of 2% growth. I notice that I have already answered a number of questions in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u225	I have an explanatory question. Mr Rog says, like Mr Voordewind, that it is guaranteed for the future. It has been said that it is optional and that it is also additional to the education given at public school. Mr Rog says that this will make it possible for parents to follow the provisions of the Primary Education Act. But if then the budget, so the 10 million including the 2% growth, is leading, at some point there are more parents who want to use it and therefore there is not enough money to pay all those teachers, I wonder what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u226	Then there are two possibilities. The first possibility is that the teachers are there and the question becomes twice as big. In that case, there may be another legislative process. The second possibility is that when demand doubles, the supply per pupil is limited, for example in number of hours per year or in the number of years of learning in the primary school age. At the moment, the minimum group size is seven pupils. That could also get higher. These are the buttons that can be turned now, until we may find ourselves in a situation where demand is growing enormously and there are teachers who can take care of it. Mr Schalk asked whether it would not be conceivable that we should come up with funding per pupil. In fact, this follows from the interruption debate I just had with a number of Members: this is not what the authors intend to do with this initiative law. We also look at the macro costs, which we want to control, and at the same time we want to organise and guarantee a broad provision. So that's different from a student's funding. It is precisely because of the financial guarantees that we have built in as proposers that I should like to quote Mr Pijlman. He urged the Secretary of State to implement the law generously if this bill is passed by the Chamber. It is about securing, removing uncertainty and, at the same time, extremely limited additional costs. Mr Schalk and Mrs Bikkers recalled in their contributions the educational pace of 100 years ago. As far as religious and humanistic education is concerned, the proposers would once again like to say that they are very much looking forward to the fact that, after 100 years of education, the equal funding of religious and humanistic education teachers is also achieved through this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u227	Mr. Chairman. This year we celebrate 100 years of freedom of education. At least, for the purists among us, this year we are celebrating the equal financing of education, because the freedom of education has been around for a long time. But let's not ruin the party. "Equal funding of education" sounds very bad, so we just make it 100 years of "freedom of education." In the first term, several spokesmen asked how the government, this cabinet, the State Secretary is in Article 23. I am very much in favour of this, including as a liberal. It is sometimes said that there has been an exchange, but I think it is a privilege, given the diversity of education in the Netherlands. There's really something for parents to choose. That also appeals to me. Furthermore, Article 23 rewards private initiative: people in the Netherlands can start their own school independently as a group. That is the basic principle of the dual order. The same applies to this part of special education, in addition to public education, which takes place under the responsibility of the State. Then what room is there for religious education? I liked Mr Ganzevoort's comment. He talked about "teaching about" and "teaching into." You could say: teaching "about" or teaching "from." That "from" may be a slightly different translation of "into," but it does indicate the essence. That education "over" we have laid down in the law. That's core target 38. That's part of the curriculum that applies to all schools. A Christian primary school must therefore also teach about other religions, such as Judaism or Islam, and cultural movements, as well as a public school can and must give insight into all these different movements. On top of that, but quite apart from that, there is teaching "off." In this respect, in Article 50 of the Law on Primary Education, the legislator stated that pupils have the right to receive education from a certain religious belief. Mr Bruijn asked whether this would not be at the expense of the rest of the curriculum, as a number of children would often be taken separately. I think that's not so bad in practice. It's going to be one hour a week. Schools have enough space, within the curriculum, to do other additional things as well. It may be that some students will then receive religious lessons and other students will do something else. The law prescribes, and that also follows from the Constitution, that public education is neutral. Religious education cannot therefore take place under the authority of the competent authority of public education. For that, people from outside the school have to be brought in. See also Article 51 of the Primary Education Act, which states that the people who provide that education are designated by another body. That's what the frame looks like. You can deal with the initiative proposal in two ways: broad, with great reflections, or very narrow, as a financial issue. I will not dwell on it for too long, but a number of Members have challenged me to consider the broad question: how does Article 50 of the Primary Education Act fit into the entire discussion on Article 23 of the Constitution? Mr Bruijn also asked whether this did not undermine special education. You could say that Article 50 is a fremdkörper. You can reason: if people want education from a particular identity, from a particular religion, they are free to start their own school. On the other hand, Article 50 also has a very long tradition. We can see that Article 23 remains in place, including Article 50. We can be long or short on this, but this initiative proposal is not about whether we retain or delete Article 50, but about the question of funding. Mr Kops asked whether Article 23 does not at all hinder integration, or whether it does not create segregation. In my view, it is a false argument from opponents of Article 23 that segregation would work in the hand. However, I see that many special schools in the big cities are as diverse and coloured as schools in public education. And if I look at countries that do not have special education or a dual system but really have state education, like France, then I do not have the impression that it is less segregated there. I am therefore very much in favour of Article 23 and also of the retention of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u228	A small correction: the PVV is also strongly in favour of Article 23. But my question was about something else. In the context of GVO and HVO and in the context of key objective 38 there is talk of the transfer of norms and values, respect for each other and so on. However, on the basis of two recently published studies, the inspections and DUO studies, it is concluded that there is very little in practice, that integration is not in order, that there is even segregation. In practice, therefore, nothing of the actual purpose of HVO and GVO and core objective 38 is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u229	I agree with Mr Kops that citizenship education in the Netherlands can be improved. There has been a lot of discussion about this today following a report from the inspection. This showed that the fact that we are actually giving citizenship so little concrete hands and feet gives a lot of schools room, but also makes many people experience emptiness. The vagueness and non-committalness that play around its implementation leads to a large variation between schools. Some schools are doing great. I think that everyone in this Chamber would get excited to see how citizenship education, the transfer of important values and knowledge about the state system and the democratic rule of law is being developed there. However, there are also schools that do so to a much lesser extent. But I myself, the cabinet and, in my opinion, many Members of Parliament consider this as important as learning a language or learning arithmetic. The school is also a place where you transfer values. I think we're gonna have to be more explicit about that. That goes beyond just Article 23. I believe that not only faith is the source of citizenship. Of course, ideas about values and good citizenship can be worked on on the basis of a belief in life or a belief, but this can also be done on the basis of, for example, the Constitution or the principles of our democratic rule of law, things that bind us all. We all know that faith transfers values, but sometimes faith can also create a strong bonding in a group. This brings you to the issues of bonding and briding. I think they're both necessary. I also think that in our educational system it should be possible to achieve both. Bonding within the group is strengthened in identity-driven schools or in attention to religious education. At the same time, you also need brimming. There is also something common in this society, namely the values that we all share and that ensure that the Netherlands is a country in which we stand for our freedoms and values.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u230	Those are fine words from the Secretary of State. He just mentioned the word "vagueness." I'm sorry to say this, but his story obviously depends on vagueness. In my speech, I have already said that integration has failed and that this can be seen in schools. Teachers can no longer discuss certain sensitive issues, such as homosexuality and attacks. They're actually ringing the bell. I ask you very specifically: what is the Secretary of State going to do about it? And that is what Mr Köhler wants to know from his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u231	If we solved that with...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u232	Excuse me for a second. This is not the subject of today's debate. We confine ourselves to a discussion about the bill on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u233	Then perhaps I can refer Mr Kops briefly to the letter that the Minister of Education and I sent to the House of Representatives today. In this we list a number of measures. Part of it is about being clearer in the law on what exactly we ask of schools in the citizenship mission. It is now vague and non-binding, but we could give it more hands and feet. A second step is that you could think about it, but we really need to do that together with the education about the way in which you give more meaning to the curriculum in the area of citizenship...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u234	That seems sufficient on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u235	And we should, I think, work on the training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u236	Ganzevoort, on the bill, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u237	Sure. I have a question about the words of the Secretary of State, who talked about the importance of both bonding capital and bridging capital. That is indeed a very important point of view. I understand from that that I can also turn it around: it is not only about the importance of brimming, but also about the importance of bonding. When I hear it like that, of course we have also read how he reacted in the House of Representatives. In fact, the Secretary of State has begun to embrace this initiative legislative proposal in the interest he apparently also attaches to bonding capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u238	I'm critical of this bill. That is part of the principle, but my main objection lies with him in the question of funding. You can discuss the principle long or short. I believe that any school can do bonding, even independently of religious education. In addition, the right conferred on parents by Article 50 does not automatically imply the State's obligation to finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u239	I would, of course, like to agree with the latter; that is another part of the debate. The Secretary of State just said that the concept of "bonding" has to do with education and with the connection to education, from its own traditions and background. I read that in such a way that he embraces the principle of GVO and HVO, namely the promotion of bonding capital, even further away from the debate on its precise financing. That's the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u240	Personally, I am slightly different, but that is also a discussion that is not on the table here today. Then you're talking about whether we want to keep Article 50. I reacted somewhat neutrally to this in the Lower House following a motion or amendment by Karin Straus of the VVD. I do not think there is a majority in either Chamber to abolish that, so there is that article. It has been in legislation for the last 100, 150 years. But once again, this bill goes a step further. Maybe I can zoom in on that. We will then go from the broad reflection to the core of this bill. This bill aims to provide structural funding for religious education in public education. It is now structural in our budget, but with a law you make it stronger and you can perpetuate it. There are a number of things to say about that. A number of speakers have said: if there is a right for parents to receive a certain form of education, that also implies a duty for the State to finance it. I do not go along with that reasoning, because until 2009, the State did not finance it either, although this article has been in existence for a long time. For 2009 it was sometimes paid from religious communities and sometimes from parents. Sometimes it was municipalities that jumped in the hole. However, you cannot say: it is in the law, so the state must pay it. The same goes for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u241	Very briefly, just one sentence: but then came the Law BIO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u242	Yes, it's a good thing you said that, because that's the other argument. Since quality requirements are set by the State, the State should pay. But you can also ask yourself whether it goes all the way. After all, we also set quality standards for private education. We believe that this education should be of good quality, but it is de facto paid by parents themselves. This reasoning, therefore, does not follow logically from the fact that the government imposes quality requirements on a particular form of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u243	But according to that reasoning, the Secretary of State could also say: that could mean that the subsidy would be abolished again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u244	You're absolutely right about that. In fact, this cabinet's proposal in 2013 was to stop funding for this form of education. The cabinet felt that parents and religious communities could provide for this themselves, or municipalities like them could choose to do so. That's what the Room has put a stop to. That is fine; that money is also on the budget. That is also structural in that sense. This bill goes a step further by including it in the law. That makes it harder for me and later for my successor to turn it back. That's what it's de facto all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u245	Then we've arrived at the core. So if we can handle this subsidy so easily, it is particularly important, also in relation to various interruptions today, that we can guarantee it now. In this way, we structure what the Secretary of State apparently welcomes in terms of funding. That's what I hear from him: he really doesn't mind putting €10,000 in his budget every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u246	It's just how you look at that. I think it's good that this right is there for parents. You can question that in a dual order, but okay. I note that it is there, but I do not think that this is an obligation on the State to provide structural funding for it. That's not what I'm into. At the same time, I see that a majority of the Chamber considers this important. And perhaps there is a majority in the Chamber to legalize that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u247	The Secretary of State is also director of a department that has established as a rule that if a grant is granted for four years in structural terms, it is good to convert that grant into legislation and anchor it in legislation. I still miss that in his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u248	I think that's a misconception. I have heard that argument come across here a number of times. There's a difference between the subsidies. We have project grants, which are by definition short-term, also to ensure that something starting as a project does not last very long. We also have numerous structural subsidies, which are being continued on a multiannual basis. This is de facto the case with the service centre at the moment. It is therefore not the case that, if this law were not passed, there would be a hard deadline for subsidising the service centre. For this reason, the 10 million in the budget is simply structural. However, it is of course easier to stop or adjust this subsidy than it is when it is in a law. That is a legitimate point of the initiators. They think this is so important that they want to put it in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u249	I hear the Secretary of State say it, but Article 3b of the Act on other OCW grants (25671) says it really is: four years. And that's the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u250	The service centre would then have a problem for a long time, because it has received a grant for much longer than four years. Maybe I can come back to this in the second term, if Mrs De Vries-Legge really wants to know exactly, but I can give her a very trichea of subsidy schemes for institutions that have been going on for much longer than four years. She can assume from me that the subsidy from the service centre will not stop if the Chamber does not do so. I can guarantee that it will continue, but this goes a step further, by including it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u251	The Secretary of State can probably mention all kinds of exceptions, but he has not refuted in the past that this rule applies. He's coming up with that for the first time. I would like to see that explained in more detail, also because we have seen that the structuralisation also provides security for those involved. That certainty is lacking now. I still miss that ratio in the Secretary of State's explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u252	I have not contradicted this in the past, because I know that this issue has not been explicitly on the table before. I also do not recall that he played very strongly in the treatment by the House of Representatives. Many scientific institutions or institutes have been in existence for a long time and receive subsidies. Those are subsidy measures. It may be that there is a difference with project grants, which are limited in time, but there are real possibilities in the OCW budget to maintain and structure the subsidy relationship we now have with the service centre, which is different from a funding relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u253	May I ask the Secretary of State how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u254	I have a few financial comments to make and then a question has been asked about supervision. Mr. Chairman. You can lay down the 10 million in the law, but there is also a problem with coverage, which can be broken down into two elements. One element is indexing. I admit that I am prepared to apply the system of indexation that we receive from the Treasury, which is being passed on to the service centre. I would add that OCW does not receive this indexation by default every year. Regular education does not automatically receive an indexing of wage and price adjustments every year. In recent years, primary schools in the Netherlands have been forced to find a coherent national budget on the zero line, and that has been translated into a zero line in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u255	I give the floor to Mr Pijlman, but after that I would like to enable the Secretary of State to finish his speech, because we are running in a huge way from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u256	The Secretary of State says he wants to equate it with other funding in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u257	What I can do is to pass on to the service centre the wage-price adjustment we get as a rule from the Treasury, but which is not automatic. If that is generous in your view, I can go along with it. We do not do that with all subsidies, but then we make an exception for the service centre. The other element is that we are dealing with anticipated volume growth, which I also heard the proposers talk about. Then I see that this bill does not identify where the cover should come from. There's just a hole there. Mr Bruijn asked about the reaction of the cabinet. I believe that the letter was received today on the financial coverage of own-initiative proposals. The government strongly believes that if there are financial consequences for an initiative proposal, as is the case here, the initiators will indicate where it should come from. I haven't heard that yet. Then you can follow Mr Pijlman's reasoning that this is a relatively small amount, so that we can sort it out for a while. I would like to turn it around: if it is a relatively small amount, it should not be a problem for the initiators to indicate where it should come from. I don't have a free pot on my budget. Is that supposed to be from the lump sum, from the educational disadvantage policy or from the teacher's scholarship? The long lists in the budget are known. I believe that the initiators indicate from which pot that volume growth should be paid. If that does not happen, it is possible to turn some buttons in a General Measure of Management. That's what I hear from the initiators. One can think of minimum group size or maximum number of hours per year. The explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment submitted by the initiators mentions a subsidy ceiling. Well, that's worth considering, too. I have no more on the budget than it says, so I will then take measures to ensure that the costs involved in religious education remain within that range, so that it does not come at the expense of the general pot or the lump sum. Then I'll be on surveillance. Mr Sini asked about monitoring the quality and content of the lessons given by the service centre. The starting point for the inspection is to always be very cautious, especially as regards the content of religious education. In addition, the inspection operates risk-driven. The inspection does not go through every lesson, but often when something is going on or when it sees that the learning outcomes are left behind at a school. The inspection may involve all educational activities in the supervision of a public school, including GVO/HVO lessons. If appropriate, the inspection may appeal to the competent authority. One can think of things that are not so much related to the content as to the competence of the teacher, the safety of the students and the fact that lessons must be given in Dutch. At OCW we will also get signals of that. If this happens too often, it will have consequences for the financing relationship we have with the service centre. The bill also makes it possible to find an organisation other than the service centre to provide for it, if that would make it a game, but I really have no reason to assume that. I have one final comment to make on Mr Bruijn. He asked whether the content of religious lessons is also being looked at. Can a public primary school also be held responsible for this? That's a tricky point. A board of a public school cannot be responsible for the content of religious lessons, which would be contrary to the neutrality of public education. One could say that there is supervision of the inspection in terms of quality requirements, powers, security, etc., etc., but content no. This is essentially what the legislator intended at the time in the construction of Articles 50 and 51 of the Law on Primary Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u258	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. A short five-minute suspension has been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u259	We shall continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u260	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I thought it was a good answer. Thanks to the interruptions and the like, it has received something that I think might work out. However, there will soon be elections and all sorts of things. We are also expecting an AMvB in which we will see how funding is regulated. Of a total amount of 9.5 billion, this amounts to an additional 5 million. I really agree with the Secretary of State that many little ones can make a very big one at some point. However, I do not want a structural solution to be found. So it would be a nice thing for me if this Chamber were to say how it thinks it should be, not to check it again later, but to give it: that is how we think about it, so please bear that in mind. A motion has been tabled for this purpose, which has a fairly broad basis of support and will shortly be tabled by Mrs Bikker. I will not say anything about it at the moment, but we wholeheartedly support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u261	We had a cliffhanger earlier today and now we have another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their clear answer. I should have done that in the first instance, I should have thanked the teachers, who, without any indexation, were disadvantaged by other teachers, have done this wonderful work. The bill looks so much that much depends on the General Measure of Governance. That is why it is important that it appears quickly. I understand there's a discussion on this. Can the Secretary of State say anything about this? When does this AMvB show up? At least one thing that the Chamber has asked for seems to be resolved. The Secretary of State has said that the staff giving these subjects will be treated in the same way as the other staff in primary education. The indexation continues. I would like to thank him very much for this commitment, which has removed this injustice. Remains over the financial point of possible volume growth. This is difficult for the proposers, because does that increase in volume result from the one remark in the school guide? On the one hand, there is shrinkage; on the other hand, there may be more demand. I'm assuming that there I'd like to hear a response to a response to a number of measures included in the General Measure, a number of buttons on which you can turn. I think it makes perfect sense to do something about class size. With D66 this usually means that it has to be lowered, but in this case it can quite reasonably go up. I would like to hear something about this. Finally, I agree with what my fellow Members have said about the budget. In eight years' time, a small budget may eventually be left. We may be talking about five to six tonnes per year; it may be a little less, it may be a little more, but it is already limited by that 2% growth. Then I say to the cabinet, and I truly mean it: it is in the folds of your coat; if you want it, you will take care of it. I challenge the Secretary of State once again, after all the discussions we had on this bill, to say, with majorities in both chambers in 2008, 2013 and 2017, that I will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u263	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive reply. One small point is the question of what the remaining children do when the other children receive that education. Mrs Ypma said that there would be no other education, but I read in Article 50 that the competent authority for pupils who do not follow this education provides for other education at the school. So there's always something. I do not think that is an important point, but it is something that needs to be laid down. In any event, I understand from the answer that the school takes sufficient responsibility to resolve it in such a way that the other children are not lagging behind. That commitment is important. The most important thing is the transition from subsidies to structural funding and the need for this law. I have listened to the argument and it does not convince me yet. Subsidisation is an instrument of the government that there is not for nothing. It involves a temporary nature: if, by any unexpected reason, the need for the government to adjust its expenditure pattern in a downward sense, it must have that flexibility. For this purpose, among other things, the subsidy instrument. If you're considering making a structural commitment anyway, that's quite a lot, but you can always do that with grants. You have to check if there's an alternative if the government should reduce the subsidy. That alternative is there. That is what special education is all about. That's what we agreed. That is Article 23 of the Constitution. That's the trade-off you have to make. If you don't, you turn the case around. Here's what you're gonna say. We once had freedom of education, but now we've given up. This has created the problem of uncertainty. We are not going to solve that by maintaining the freedom of education in order to fall back on it, but we are going to solve that by going in the opposite direction by a structural obligation. That is something my group cannot support, precisely because of the importance of freedom of education. In addition, there is no full coverage for this structural funding. Insofar as there is no cover, this problem is partly solved by the fact that the money follows the students who go not to special education but to public education. That's gonna be a growing group, I understand. This is at the expense of special education, and my group regrets that. I would like to hear the answer in the second term, but at the moment I am not convinced. I am also grateful for the commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u264	Mr Schalk may intervene for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u265	We're talking in primary school about about about 10 billion. 70% of these are for special education. That is a budget of 7 billion for special education. It's gonna take 15 million, 10 million of which are already covered. In other words, it's going to be 5 million in 2025. Then Mr Bruijn cannot reasonably say that it undermines special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u266	If 2% of children choose to go to public education instead of special education, there will be no special education after 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u267	We have already had this discussion. I do not think there is much point in going into this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u268	Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to regular inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u269	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Sini on his maiden speech. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their answer, although not all the questions have been answered. So let me repeat a few things. In fact, in the first term, I said that the applicants in the House of Representatives spoke about the rising costs, which could reduce the supply of lessons and even disappear GVO and HVO in public schools. However, the response here has repeatedly highlighted a growth of 2%. What's the deal with that? What is the 2% growth based on? Is that a serious expectation or an assumption? How's that? Much has already been said about it, but we attach great importance to the separation of special and public education. It is a good freedom for parents to take charge of the education itself, but we do not like the fact that GVO and HVO are given in public schools by teachers appointed by external bodies. If parents need it, they're free to shape it themselves. They can arrange that outside of school hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u270	Mr. Chairman. Thank you again for the congratulations for my maiden speech. It was exciting, I must tell you. I would like to thank Mrs Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog, and the Secretary of State for the detailed and clear answer. As far as I am concerned, our concerns about the inspection have been removed. We were indeed concerned about restraint in the separation between the Church and the State. That is why I also referred to the only letter on this subject so far. If the content of that letter on supervision in particular is transferred to public education, then supervision is perfectly regulated. This bill provides for a full legal anchoring of the funding of this beautiful education. It helps to enable children in public education, as well as children in particular, to receive philosophical education. As I said in the first term, this can help children to develop their own perspective on life, and to gain respect for other people and the way they stand in life. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u271	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for their clear answer. They have ensured that a repair stroke is made that should have been made a long time ago. It is nice that the House of Representatives knows the right of initiative and could get to work in that way. I would, of course, also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. However, funding, as proposed in the legislative proposal, remains open to question for my group. These will only be filled in exactly in the AMvB, but the Secretary of State has so far indicated that if indexation is granted by Finance, he will pass it on. If I have calculated correctly, the collective agreement obligations can also be met, but there is still a gap in volume growth. Mr Pijlman has already said more about this. I do not think that the Secretary of State is generous in this respect. The lump sum alone covers 9.9 billion. The Secretary of State's comments in this respect may in the long term lead to a new discussion if there is a growth beyond expectations, but also if growth is normal. The Secretary of State gives the impression that he's not so big in his jacket. I have not heard anything else about the bridging regulation, but it is clear that the 10 million has already been spent widely. That is why, on behalf of my colleagues from CDA, D66, GroenLinks, SGP and SP, I am tabling a motion to clarify how funding is to be financed and how it is to be clarified. It has to be before August 1st, because then the law will come into force. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr Pijlman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Schalk and Mr Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that professional teachers have been awarded religious and humanistic education (g/hvo) equivalent to group teachers in primary education since 2009;]] [[Considering that the decisions of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2016 and 2017 do not allow the Stichting Dienstcentrum GVO and HVO to implement that equal pay in these years, while the initiative proposal of Mr Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog (34246) aims to provide structural funding for the coming years;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the government has not yet allocated funds to reward GVO/HVO equally to group teachers in primary education in the coming years;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with a bridging arrangement for the years 2016 and 2017 in line with the legislative proposal and to present before 1 August 2017 a General Administrative Measure which regulates structural funding in accordance with Article 50 of the WPO, in order to meet parents' demand for HVO/GVO education in public education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34246-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u272	I already said something about the cover. According to the signatories, it could be found in the lumpsum. This serves the main purpose of all children in public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u273	Then why isn't the cover in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u274	I'd like to add that cover. That's not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u275	If the motion states, for example, that cover must come from the lump sum, then the government knows where it stands. Then the government can carry out the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u276	If Mr Bruijn says that he also wants to sign the motion, at least we will get right to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u277	I didn't say that. I asked why the cover isn't in the motion. The answer is clear. Let's get the cover in. It has not yet been said that my group will support this motion, but I have heard the commitment clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u278	To make it completely complete, I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond to my comments. We're working on the second term. We are not yet at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u279	Mr. Chairman. I thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their answers. Mrs Ypma gave a wonderful summary: it is not a duty, but a right. Mr Voordewind reassured me by stating that supervision was organised in such a way that there should be no calls for hatred, violence or the like. Another comment from him triggered me for a while. It was about the status quo in the salaries; at least, that is how I understood it. That brings me to a question. Perhaps Mr Rog should answer them, or else Mr Voordewind, but I would like to leave that to the gentlemen. Last year the collective agreement increase was 3.8% on 1 July. If that has not been applied to these teachers, then there is a nice hole. That still needs to be closed. How's that gonna happen, and does that still fit within the 15 million-dollar ceiling? I thank the Secretary of State for his support. You could divide his answers into "yes" and "no." Should Article 23 continue to exist? Answer: yes. Is special education being undermined? Answer: no. Can the grant be stopped? Yes. Will the Secretary of State stop the grant? No. The final answer may be my interpretation, but that will give us all the room to convert the grant into funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u280	Thank you. Then, when I hear it like that, we have had a very efficient debate. We need the answer from the petitioners and the Secretary of State. I call Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u281	Mr. Chairman. I thank the senators for the second-term contributions. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term contribution. The Secretary of State is already getting a bit more positive, and that also makes us, as proposers, more positive. The Secretary of State is not in favour of hvo/gvo or of our bill. That is precisely the reason, as Mrs Bikker was very well aware, that we are making a repair hit which should have been made a long time ago. The House of Representatives has repeatedly asked for this subject to be included in the budget in a structural manner, but the initiative has not been taken. That is why we have used our right of initiative. Striking is the more or less principled position of the Secretary of State, which appeared already in 2013 in his proposal to stop the ongoing subsidy. He is not in favour of a legal anchoring of the government's funding. We also did not find much cooperation from the Ministry in looking for any form of cover. We're very sorry about that. State Secretary Dekker does not regard hvo/gvo as an essential part of the public school as a general education facility. This position is quite different from what the Liberals have always advocated, and I have told you a great deal about it for the first time. That's possible, but that has little to do with this bill. You can do the teaching pace again, 100 years after that would be interesting, but that's not what our bill is about. I see some senators shaking no, but that's not what our bill is about. During the examination of the Education budget for 2007, the Lower House has already declared in a motion that there should be a form of national benefit. In 2004 the vocational teachers were included in the Law on Occupations in Education. In doing so, we have drawn structuralally into the system of quality care from a national point of view. From the point of view of the system of adequacy requirements, it is also appropriate to provide sufficient and adequate funding for HVO/GVO teachers to ensure the quality of their education, equal to regular teachers who are subject to comparable quality standards and competence requirements. In this respect, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment that he wants to do the same. And as far as we're concerned, anyone who says "a" has to say "b." Mr Pijlman has said a number of things about the AMvB. As far as we're concerned, that AMvB gets there as soon as possible; we already have one ready. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to make a commitment on this point as well. Mr Pijlman also mentioned that the money should be found in the folds of the budget. The proposers agree with that. Mr Bruijn indicated that there are children already in school. Of course, those kids don't leave school for one hour. So they just go to school. I will give you a practical example, Mr Bruijn asked for it. At my own children's school, a public school, there are three Jehovah's witnesses. The whole class has hvo or gvo, except these three kids. They are not participating, their parents have chosen to do so, and they are allowed to do so. Those kids do different assignments in that hour, they're working on other things they get at school. It is the intention of Article 23 that we do not force parents to use it; they have the right to use it. Mr Bruijn also spoke of a growing group of children who would go to public education. The proposers do not see that happening very quickly. Now 25% of children go to public education and 75% to special education. There has been a growth in special education and a contraction in public education for years. So we do not see any huge growth. I also agree with Mr Schalk, who rightly said that in so many years' time it will not be possible to roll out special education. Mr Kops asked what the 2% is based on. That percentage is based on three things. Firstly, this is an assessment of the Services Centre GVO and HVO, which currently provides all those lessons. Secondly, it is a realistic assessment that came from the teachers. Thirdly, it is also an executable assessment; we simply have no more teachers than that. That 2% is based on that. Mrs Bikker spoke about the bridging arrangement and the lumpsum as cover. In addition, I have heard from one of the co-subscribers the folds of the budget as cover. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to these proposals. Mr Schalk referred to the 3.8%. The teachers are indeed finally off the mark. They grew along, hence the 3.8%. The teachers who are now teaching have agreed to waive the wage increase for this year. So there is only one group of teachers left in the Netherlands who are on the zero line and those are these teachers. Mr Schalk is quite right, of course, that we should not want that. I am therefore very pleased with the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will at least fix this. I hope he's willing to take the pennies off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u282	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries still has an answer to her question on subsidies. Since 1 April 2016, there has been a new framework for OCW grants where project grants are limited for five years. There are also institutional subsidies. Those are for an indefinite period of time. The service centre receives an institution grant. Then there's the motion and the question of cover. This point remains above the market. The appeal from the First Chamber is actually: don't be so difficult, Secretary of State, because it's only a few million; why should we indicate a cover, which you'll take care of in the folds of the budget? The fact that I'm so resistant to this has to do with me knowing a little bit about what's coming. The Members of Parliament should have known that, because they have adopted the budget for education. They have seen that there is another EUR 150 million in the 'unforeseen' item. That means we have to fill in that amount somewhere, but I don't know where yet. In fact, on the initiative of Mr Pechtold on the other side, this cabinet has been instructed to ensure that the coverage for the 150 million is not at the expense of the lump sum cost of schools. That excludes about 90% to 95% of our budget. So before we start thinking about spending extra money, we have a problem of 150 million to solve first. It is said: but you must have some money somewhere in the pockets of the budget. The answer to that is "no'. In the folds of our budget there are setbacks. So I can't promise one-two-three to this Chamber that, even if it's only five million, I'll settle that for a while. This is also the reason why I'm deceiving the motion on letter C. It is based on a transitional arrangement and a growing budget that is not covered, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. It is not the case that we cannot put it in our budget. I really do hear the initiators behind this table saying something different than Mrs Bikker, one of the authors of this motion. She says: that lumpsum is very big, take it out of there. That might be possible, but I would prefer your Chamber to give me a clear order and say: this costs a few million extra, that lump sum is so big, you take it out of there. Furthermore, I would advise against the motion, because I think it contradicts a motion adopted on the other side and because I find it strange that the growth of the number of teachers at the service centre should be at the expense of the teachers in regular education. But that's the fair choice. Politics is ultimately making choices in scarcity and you have the right to budget, so I would like to hear from you how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u283	A good action by Mr Pechtold, by the way, but this aside. The Secretary of State says that if the motion is amended as proposed by Mrs Bikker, at least I have a clear mandate. It's not about 5 million, but it's about possibly 5 million over eight years. I dared to use that image of those folds, because it will probably be in a few tons a year. Do I understand the Secretary of State correctly that if we amend the motion in that way, he will see it as a clear mission and realize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u284	Even so, I think it is an unwise motion and I would advise against it for the reasons I have just given. It is at the expense of regular teachers in regular education for the benefit of religious teachers. I'd be against that. But if your Chamber finds that a good majority decision and gives me a clear mandate, I can assure you that I am inclined to carry out the motion. In any case, you give an orderly coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u285	It would be the reverse world if we adopted motions that we still have to wait and see if the cabinet is going to implement them. I do hear the Secretary of State do a hand-picking; let's keep it friendly on this evening. I will discuss with the co-rapporteurs of the motion the coverage for the supplement, but then I expect the motion to be carried out. I would have expected that, because that makes sense if the Chamber adopts a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u286	A motion is a request to the government. Motions are sometimes not carried out either. I would find it complicated if you sent me on a motion to arrange something financially without indicating where the money should come from. But fair enough: if you choose to do so at the expense of another budget, that is a clear choice of Parliament and I see that as a task for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u287	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Bikker, the author of the motion, how we are going to deal with this. I wonder what she's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u288	The motion has been filed and it will stand in a moment. If this is changed, I will come back next Tuesday. I suppose we'll have the votes then. If necessary, it shall become a third time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u289	A short third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u290	Very briefly, I hope. I think we've discussed Article 23 enough today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u291	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-eerstekamer-8.u292	I'm here to deal with the bill. I hardly have to ask the question: does one of the Members wish to vote on the legislative proposal? That's the case, as I suspected. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion. We'll find out how the motion goes.
