ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. Due to the obligations of the Minister in the Lower House later in the afternoon, the State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment will answer questions raised in the debate. It shall join the debate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The law we are discussing today has two elements: the introduction of the participation declaration into the integration exam and also the legal definition of the social guidance that goes to the local government. Let me start by saying that the members of the CDA Group will support the proposal that we are discussing today. Then the Minister won't worry about it anymore. A citizen who wants to succeed in the new society in which we are incorporated must know how we live in the Netherlands, what our values and standards are and how we stand against each other. I therefore see the declaration of participation as an instrument, an instrument that shows that the citizen knows and supports the principles of our society. More importantly, I think that the citizen also knows and feels that from that moment on he is also a candidate or current citizen of Dutch society. The fact that in many municipalities the achievement of this participation test is festively changed encourages people to belong because they feel that they have opportunities. Those opportunities are not gratuitous, but they must also be exploited. Also on the second part of the law, the appointment of the municipality as director for the participation process or, in the case of asylum migrants and their family members, also for the social assistance, the members of the CDA Group agree in principle. Although the role of the municipality is too low, we believe that it is very crucial in the success of an integration process. What we see, however, is that the results of the integration process introduced by law in 2013 are downright bad. I can refer to the Court of Auditors' report at the beginning of this year, but also to the poor results that the Minister himself indicates in the written preparation. The concept invented in 2013 was to lay the responsibility of the citizen, to borrow a bag of money and to make demands on the deadlines for integration. That should be it. That concept really doesn't work. That is what we can see from the results. I wonder how a citizen should choose. Can a citizen who is not yet able to speak the language make a choice? Wouldn't the municipality as a director be better placed to do that? It has to be different, that's how we find it. The number of long, often lifelong, benefits to newcomers is rising dramatically. Can the Minister confirm that? That fact of dependency on a benefit affects not only the citizen himself, who is doomed to be dependent on that lifelong benefit, but certainly does not lead to a positive reaction of Dutch citizens either. Frustration all over the place, then. There's no other way. In our view, integration should be part of a process in which integration is central. It is not just about language and knowledge about the Netherlands and the values and standards of Dutch society. It is also about leading to work and professional qualities, so as to be able to actually integrate and keep the head above water as a citizen. If we want to remove frustration and make positive forces work, then what is now foreseen for the municipalities as director of guidance in a social domain should, in our opinion, be deposited with municipalities in a much broader sense. Municipalities are equipped for that. When it comes to citizens, this law has only a very small part of the responsibility. I read in the law that under Article 18 there will be another AMvB. Is the Minister prepared to look at and take part in the consultation with the VNG on this forthcoming AMvB, how can we get a new approach, laying down powers and resources in the municipality to make integration a real success? 'Cause that's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u3	You note that the current integration law of 2013 is rather problematic in its implementation. The number of citizens who pass the exam remains firmly behind expectations. Now we're going to add a new part: the participation statement. The current law is not running and is now being adapted a bit. Next year we will have the review of the law. If we add a new part now, will it work according to your idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u4	The Declaration of Participation brings knowledge to the citizen about the values and standards and how we live in this society. That has nothing to do with the process as such. I think that the whole process should be put on hold, in the sense that the citizen should have someone, an authority that brings the municipality with him in my case, to guide him to the future. Now there is no obligation in those five years one has to choose oneself, but the citizen cannot cope with that responsibility. I don't think the participation declaration is the big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mrs Oomen says that the process needs to be changed. We're breaking the current law. The three-year process will be shortened and a declaration of participation will be added. The citizen is already a bit confused about the question of which course to take and what the offer is. I think the chaos is only getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u6	I don't feel that way. I think it is a good thing that, while they have not yet passed the integration exam, after a year there is already a kind of exam where they say: now you have enough knowledge about Dutch society, now you are an aspiring citizen. Then one may go even more motivated for the rest of the course. As far as responsibility for guidance is concerned, I agree with you: it will have to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. To count, you have to participate. That sounds simple, but it's not. People who are not born and raised in this country are confronted with many things that are self-evident to people who grow up in the Netherlands. This applies to all newcomers, who each bring their own cultural background, knowledge, experience, standards and values, whether they are residents of other countries of the European Union or people who come to the Netherlands in the context of family reunification, people who have fled unsafe areas or people who come to our country for study or work and want to settle here. My group believes it is important that we are aware of this and take it into account when developing legislation and regulations, and specifically in the activities that we are launching to guide newcomers in our country. My group admires the municipal officials and, above all, the many volunteers who are committed to helping newcomers, helping them in practical matters such as filling out forms, learning the Dutch language and informing them about how to participate in the neighbourhood, with a study and at work. My group believes that the government should play a facilitating and initiating role in ensuring that newcomers actually participate in our society. Mrs. Oomen also mentioned it. The PvdA Group welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the assessment of integration in October last year, the government decided to take additional measures to guide and support newcomers in the integration process, including accessible information on the quality and costs of integration courses and tailor-made pathways for specific groups, such as women from Somalia and Eritrea. With the bill we are debating today, the government wants to legally anchor these measures and also ensure that citizens become acquainted with and commit to Dutch standards and values at an early stage. The introduction of the new Integration Act in 2013 has placed a strong emphasis on the individual responsibility of the citizens. In the October letter to the House of Representatives on integration, the government focuses on the number of people who have completed the integration examination. The government announces that on the basis of the investigations carried out by the General Court of Auditors and the policy review of the Region Plan, the status of integration will be assessed. Our group is curious to see how the Minister is assessing the approach and success of integration at the moment. What lessons can be drawn, in addition to what has been included in the above-mentioned letter and the legislative proposal we are discussing today, as regards the chosen approach and role-sharing in integration? What suggestions does the Minister intend to give to his successor to ensure that newcomers can actually participate equally in our society? We are also curious to see how the Minister looks at the implications of the recently published report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, entitled "Knowing is not yet done, a realistic perspective on resiliency" for the laws and regulations and policies in the field of newcomers and specifically citizens. After all, the report states that not all people at risk have equal chances of being reded, that personal characteristics determine the ability to think and do things and that stress and mental stress put pressure on people's mental abilities and thus the ability to plan and take responsibility for themselves. The WRR stresses that wrong choices or passivity do not necessarily have to indicate unwillingness, but may also indicate inability or overload. Refugees are known to have often come to our country under appalling circumstances. These experiences and the uncertainty about their future give them a lot of stress. The WRR recommends that the government base its policy on a realistic assessment of people's capacity to think and act and to take into account differences in capacity in regulation. Does the Minister think that the way in which integration is now organised, but also in the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, has been sufficiently taken into account? If so, where does it come from? And if not, what implications should this have? My group thanks the government for the written answers to questions from this Chamber on the legislative proposal. As a result, a number of concerns have been removed. A number of other things my group would like to put to the Minister in order to arrive at a proper assessment of the legislative proposal. Let me start with the positive elements of the bill. The cabinet chooses to give the municipalities an explicit role and additional structural funding for the social support of newcomers. In order to fit in with what is appropriate in the local context, the legislative proposal has been drafted in such a way that municipalities can be given the opportunity to join with local civil society organisations and residents to complete the guidance in their own right. My group wholeheartedly supports this interpretation of the role of the municipalities. It considers it important, however, that the activities are planned in such a way that participation for citizens is practically feasible, that such activities do not run counter to other agreements in the context of integration, for example, and that they should take place as far as possible in the home of the citizens. My group hears from daily practice that in their approach the municipalities do not take sufficient account of the other activities of the citizens and their living conditions. How does the Minister view this point? Is it possible to include in the evaluation of the Integration Act the planning, accessibility and approach of the activities that the municipality organises or late organises for newcomers? For newcomers, integration begins with an explicit choice for an existence in the Netherlands. For this, learning the Dutch language is a prerequisite for participating. Knowledge of the language makes it independent and makes it possible to meet and get to know each other. The success of the integration exam appears to increase the chances of finding work. Attention is drawn to the fact that the integration courses must be in line with the language level of the citizens. This point is addressed in the letter of October of last year. My group welcomes that. It is recommended that an intake test be carried out to determine the appropriate level of education of the citizen and to advise an appropriate course on this basis. My group's question is whose responsibility it is to encourage and facilitate the use of the intake test. We also ask this question in the light of the insights in the above-mentioned WRR report. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. An important part of the legislative proposal is about adding a declaration of participation in the first year of integration. The legislative proposal proposes to conclude this process with the signing of the declaration of participation by the citizen. I would suggest that the PvdA Group wholeheartedly supports the principle that it is important that all residents of our country should be able to participate equally and that newcomers should be encouraged and facilitated in order to acquire and endorse the norms, values and customs of our country. The pilot participation statement has shown that it has added value to guide people in local society and to provide information about Dutch standards, values and customs. It is nice to read in the evaluation of the pilot, carried out by Regioplan, that the participants feel more welcome through the participation process and that the majority of the participants plan to promote the Dutch values. On two points, the introduction of the participation process raises concerns for my group. Those concerns were not addressed in the written reply. It concerns the limited circle of people who become obliged to follow a participation declaration path and the implications of the fact that a substantial financial sanction is linked to the non-signature of the participation statement. First of all, I would like to address the limited circle of newcomers who have to sign a participation declaration. The compulsory participation declaration pathway applies only to newcomers who have to take an integration exam in order to stay in the Netherlands. Almost 200,000 people live in the Netherlands every year. Of these, more than 100,000 people come from Europe, the other newcomers come from the rest of the world: almost 50,000 people from Asia and about 14,000 from Africa. This means that more than half of the people who settle in our country on the basis of international law provisions are not obliged to follow a participation process and do not have to sign a declaration. To our question of how to deal with this, the government answers that it agrees with the PvdA Group that knowledge of Dutch standards and values is important for all newcomers and that municipalities are encouraged to offer the route voluntarily to all newcomers. We think this answer is too lean. How are municipalities encouraged to do this? Can the Minister imagine that refugees, who, after often harsh journeys and traumatic experiences, are happy to be allowed to stay in our country, do not feel treated equally as they are required to adhere to standards and values that are more stringent, or at least appear to be, than the demands made on other newcomers or wider to all Dutch people? Why is it that the government is not fully committed to a voluntary declaration of participation with a voluntary declaration of participation for all newcomers, for example at the start of a journey to obtain a residence permit? And why wasn't it chosen to ask all Dutch people who reach the age of 18 to sign the declaration? If we chose to do so, we would show that we expect all Dutch people to support freedom, equality and solidarity as values and that we expect every citizen of our country to contribute to a pleasant and safe society. In its 2015 Report on Human Rights, the College of Human Rights advocates the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination and the active commitment of the government to prevent racial discrimination. My group wonders whether this bill will contribute to this. Does the government see the possibility of adapting European legislation in such a way that the acceptance of standards and values, as is now contained in the Declaration of Participation, can enter into force for all newcomers in this case for all European citizens? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Our second point concerns the approach that is being taken, whereby citizens who do not sign the participation declaration within one year are subject to sanctions. In the explanatory memorandum, the government expressly states that it is its wish to realise with the participation process and the participation declaration that citizens with the signing show their involvement in Dutch society and their willingness to contribute actively to it. In the reply, the government states that the pilots in which a participation declaration process and a participation declaration are being assessed positively as regards the knowledge of the Dutch standards and values of the participants. This is a good basis for building on, my group believes. Continue on the path taken, see if this will be sufficient and adjust if this is not the case, we would say. Unfortunately, the government has not chosen this approach. Citizens who do not sign the participation declaration may receive a substantial administrative fine. This amounts to €340 and, moreover, on the basis of the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, they can no longer claim a loan from DUO. This is separate from the fine they can get for not obtaining the other parts of the integration exam in time, within three years. In response to questions from my group, the government replies: "The pilot participation declaration shows that offering the route on a voluntary basis has a limited scope. With the obligation and the possibility to impose an administrative fine, the government aims to realise that the scope of the participation declaration process among citizens is as wide as possible." In the evaluation, project leaders of the Pilot Statement of Participation explicitly advocate continuing the pilot approach, which means a voluntary signature of the Statement of Participation. People who have voluntarily signed and understand the statement indicate in the pilot that they agree with the content of the statement. That's good. Why doesn't the Minister take over this suggestion? Why hasn't the government chosen a voluntary trajectory? Moreover, the evaluation of the pilot shows that 17% of the participating refugees only signed the declaration because this was requested from the municipality. The evaluation also shows that only 58% of refugees fully understood the purpose and content of the declaration of participation. Will the participation declaration process, which aims to respect and subscribe to the core values of Dutch society by newcomers, become mandatory because of the above and the chance of a sanction not to take a hurdle for citizens to settle in the Netherlands? In fact, non-signing means that the total integration examination cannot be successfully completed and that financial sanctions will follow. My group's question to the Minister is therefore: what is the value of the signature given to this context under a declaration of participation by a citizen? What additional measures is the Minister prepared to take to ensure that citizens understand what they are saying yes to in a way that is understandable to them and also to prevent citizens from signing the certificate of participation because it has to be from the municipality, or because they have to prevent a sanction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mrs Nooren wonders whether it makes sense to introduce the participation statement as some sort of intermediate path. But couldn't you ask the same question about the end of the integration process? In the end, that's the same thing. There's a certain obligation. The participation declaration simply includes an obligation, a little earlier, to speed up people's access to the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u9	The difference between the participation declaration process and the integration process is that a participation declaration process is concluded not with an examination but with a signature. In the integration process, you take an exam. With an exam, you can determine if anyone has understood anything. The participation declaration is about what you support, standards and values. In it you are specifically asked to carry them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u10	I think I understand what Mrs. Nooren means, but in the exam you indicate that you understood that you crawled through it. In the participation statement you only write that you want to follow a route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u11	No, the concept participation statement states that you agree with the values "equivalence" and "solidarity" and that you are even willing to promote them. We very much support that. In itself, we are very much in favour of volunteering. We hope that everyone in the Netherlands will endorse that statement. We have no problem with a participation process. We also have no problem with the declaration of participation, nor with the fact that it is signed. Our problem is that the failure to follow the participation process and the failure to sign a declaration of participation should be sanctioned. What additional measures is the Minister prepared to take to ensure that citizens can understand what they are saying yes to? And how do we prevent citizens from signing the participation declaration because it has to be from the municipality or to prevent a penalty? To our question whether the government has considered whether it is feasible to link positive incentives to the timely signing of the Statement of Participation, the government answers in the negative. It is stated that it is up to the municipalities, after the introduction of the legislative proposal, to broaden the process of declaring participation and, of course, to work on positive incentives within legal frameworks. Our group is surprised by this response and it is disappointing. It does not seem to us to be a serious attempt, with a different approach than through coercion and urge, to ensure that all newcomers participate in a participation declaration process and to encourage and facilitate that all newcomers, including citizens, sign the participation declaration. This answer also surprises my group because in the pilot with the Statement of Participation, a number of municipalities have chosen to work with positive incentives. The number of participants has been successfully increased by linking the participation statement process to, for example, job training, lessons on the history of the city, work visits, language courses and even a free subscription to a newspaper. What makes it impossible for the government, with the additional impetus and resources it provides for municipalities, to have the confidence that a voluntary journey can produce sufficient results, my group wonders. Why was it not chosen to start in line with the pilot with a voluntary journey combined with positive incentives or with the signing as a condition for starting an integration process? We are looking forward to the Minister's answer on these points. I'm rounding up. "Participation is very important in the Netherlands. As well as the values of freedom, equality and solidarity." These are the starting sentences of the concept participation statement. My group wholeheartedly supports that all people living in the Netherlands are expected to subscribe to these values, actively promote them and contribute to a pleasant and safe society, with each other and where necessary supported by the government. My group supports the government's intention to give the legislative proposal an extra boost to the integration of newcomers and the role it sees in this process for the municipalities. My group has difficulty with the mandatory nature of the participation process only for citizens and the link between the signing or non-signature of the participation declaration and the granting of a loan by DUO. In my group's view, these conditions and the option of an administrative penalty as a sanction for not signing the declaration in good time are contrary to what is meant by the participation process: newcomers who, from their hearts, subscribe to the Dutch values and standards and wish to promote them. We look forward to the Minister's answers or the State Secretary's answers to our questions and hope that they can convince us of the added value of the chosen approach in terms of the participation process and the mandatory participation declaration for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. Today, the amendments of, among other things, the Integration Act are discussed, namely the legal anchoring of the participation declaration and the social guidance. The legislation on integration has changed a lot in recent years, following the political discussions on how to deal with asylum migrants. This bill also reflects the political debate. The migrant must have taken note of our core values, which can be found in the terms 'freedom', 'equivalence' and'solidarity'. We are very critical of the expected implementation of this bill. I should like to explain this briefly in my speech. I will speak and ask questions about the content and future implementation of this bill. In addition, I will talk about the part of social guidance. We wonder why this bill is on the table. Since 2013, we have known the current law governing integration. The Decision on integration sets out the frameworks on how to give substance and form to integration. Article 3.9 (2) of the Decision describes the section "knowledge of Dutch society" in the integration process. With this article, the transfer of knowledge of our core values is secured, isn't it? By amending the Decision on integration, is it still easy to give a place to the declaration on participation? In this way, is it possible to shape the continuous learning line that the Minister wants? We have a feeling that we are working on unnecessary legislation. Perhaps the Minister and soon the Secretary of State will be able to shed light on this. What is this declaration of participation ultimately for construct? Those who have signed state no more than that they or they have taken note of our Dutch core values. However, the failure to explain and not following the participation declaration process may result in a fine. In short, as a citizen, you have to learn. What's such an explanation worth? You'd be crazy not to sign, wouldn't you, if you're gonna get another ticket? This only produces socially desirable behaviour, I ask the Minister. In his explanatory statement, the Minister points out the evaluation of the pilot declaration of participation and the positive picture of the impact of the participation process. This evaluation thus seems to be the basis for the proposed changes to the current legislative proposal. So we looked at the pilot ourselves. Well, I'm just saying it in my own words. "The effect of the pilot is clearly not measured," the evaluation states. Particular attention has been paid to the nature and manner of the different pilots, which have examined whether the newcomers have experienced the activities of this pilot as useful for their future integration and participation. These experiences are generally positive. However, participation in this process was voluntary and not all invited participants participated. I couldn't find the percentage of no-show in the evaluation. Only 1,503 declarations of participation were signed and there were 4,104 participants. This evaluation shows that project leaders are reluctant to sign the Statement of Participation, whether or not they are obliged to sign it. They lack the conviction or the signing of the declaration, as an independent part, has added value for newcomers. The project leaders and the other performers have doubts about the impact on integration and participation, a text head in the evaluation. There is a salient sentence in this text: "The pilots do not aim to guide newcomers on the basis of an intensive journey towards greater social participation." Then what's it about? What is the objective pursued? We ask the Minister for an answer. The evaluation was carried out on the basis of opinions. Knowing opinions is nice, but has the pilot communities been able to convey our core values? Do the citizens now know their rights and obligations? It is also a result that goes beyond what we think of it. In any case, the opinions of the teachers of integration, as expressed in an article in Trouw of 27 March last entitled Without dignified teaching, are not taken into account. The same applies to the municipal sections. The description of several of these routes and of successful parts with a few tips is informative, but a good practice has not really delivered this evaluation. Surely the Minister cannot believe that this pilot will serve as a basis for the proposed legal changes? I'm sure the Minister will want to respond to this. The Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees with the section on social guidance and the role of the municipalities in this regard. This seems to bring back an element from the old Civilization Act 2007. However, it is a missed opportunity not to extend the direction of the municipalities further. As far as we are concerned, monitoring the quality of integration routes should be part of this. Similarly, the purchase of these routes for the citizens. The Minister indicated his wish to exercise restraint in the way in which social guidance should be completed through the Decision on integration. This means tailor-made work and policy freedom for the municipalities. The Group of the Party of European Socialists wonders how our core values of solidarity, equality and freedom are implemented locally. What do these concepts mean? As it now seems, the municipalities are going to implement this for themselves, but the Minister will have some idea of what these core values look like and should be fulfilled in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u13	Does Mr Don think that the Minister should record this? I think the core of the participatory process is that you are also involved in local society. I do not know if Mr Don ever comes to the east of the country, but there weddings are celebrated differently than in Amsterdam. What I like about the approach is that you are also aware of where you are and that civil society organisations are also involved in the approach. Perhaps solidarity has a different meaning in Amsterdam than in Doetinchem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u14	That may be true, but whoever designed this law must have an opinion on it. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister looks at these concepts. I am happy that you are working on this at the local level, together with a local party, under the municipal direction that is still fairly limited, but the Minister himself will have an opinion on this and I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u15	However, the Minister states precisely that in this social participation he gives the municipalities the opportunity to give them a strong place to do so in local society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u16	This is always a very difficult discussion. We have had more of these discussions about decentralisation, for example in the concept of own responsibility. Next thing you know, it's always gonna be a life of its own. The government itself has an opinion on this. This is evident from the fact that it has also been a discussion point in the Lower House. What is freedom now? What is solidarity now? What is equivalence? If you think that these concepts should be incorporated into the law and that they should also be discussed at local level, then you have an opinion yourself? Then it is very easy to say that you think that these concepts should be in the law, but that you leave the interpretation to the local level. Surely the Minister has an idea of his own?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u17	I have one final comment to make. In my view, Mr Don is mixing the growing social role that the legislative proposal places on the one hand the municipalities and the participation process on the other. The latter will be a uniform declaration which will still be submitted to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u18	I don't see the mix-up. However, I ask the Minister about his opinion on freedom, solidarity and equality. Let Asielmigrands learn about our society, ensure that they learn the Dutch language well, invite them, train them and encourage them to use their own opportunities, and at the same time set conditions for their stay in our country: these are all basic principles that the SP group can agree with. But the intended must work in practice. This outgoing cabinet has produced a number of laws that lead to implementation problems: I need only mention the words "pgb" or "Youth Law." Abstract political principles with the corresponding political expectations are the cause of the implementation problems on a regular basis. Political expectations can be put very well on paper, but they have not yet been realised in practice. The real world is sometimes uncomfortable. It is clear that the SP Group does not have a good feeling about this bill. We have read extremely critical report Integration, from the General Court of Auditors. This report from January of this year describes an implementation practice of the Integration Act which is not yet in place three years after that date. Next, today we are discussing the amendment of that law. I shall confine myself to two observations in this report. Firstly, 40% of citizens are still subject to integration 3.5 years after the start of the integration process. They have not yet fulfilled their legal obligation. Secondly, there are doubts about the functioning of the legal sanctions. It is found that in practice the new residence penalty is not practicable and is therefore not being implemented. The Court points out shortcomings that concern fundamental political principles of the current law. These principles are therefore not achieved. I ask the Minister to respond to this. The current legislative proposal comes with a few practical changes in the light of the findings of the Court of Auditors' report, but also with that new political starting point: the obligation for citizens to have knowledge of our core values. The Minister proposes all this on the basis of an evaluation based largely on opinion-forming. For the SP Group, this is asking for problems. Why should the proposals now work in practice, I ask the Minister? Are our core values well known to those who signed the Declaration of Participation? Are the municipalities well prepared for their coming responsibilities? I'm closing up. Spring 2018 is expected to present the outcome of the review of the current Integration Act. But we are now going to change the law by adding a new element, namely the Declaration of Participation. A somewhat thoughtful director would, in response to this report of the General Court, take a step in the right direction and focus all his attention on improving implementation, hoping for a good result, such as a high score of Dutch-speaking citizens who get their diploma and who find a good place in our society. Our advice to the Minister is: withdraw the law in this form. Of course, we are still interested in the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u19	I would like to ask Mr Don whether the declaration of participation might provide a positive incentive for what appears to be not quite working out in the process of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u20	I would like to ask Mr Schalk a question again, Mr President. Where would I get that feeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u21	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u22	I read about the pilot and it doesn't cheer me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u23	I understand that this does not cheer you up, Mr Don, but I can imagine that the government is trying to make this integration process as smooth as possible. Now that the figures show, as you have argued, that the trajectory is at least longer than we want, do you have to start somewhere early in the project to position additional pushpower? That could happen with a participation statement. I am not saying that this is the medicine that is really helping, but I can imagine that we are looking together for a means that will at least put people on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u24	As far as I am concerned, Mr Schalk has heard me say that social assistance from the municipalities is a good start. This brings us back to the Wet inburgering 2007, which I myself had to deal with in the municipality of Eindhoven. In that arrangement, you saw the involvement of the municipalities. Next, responsibility has been removed from the Empire and an integration law has been produced which, I say, does not meet the expectations. The results are well below the expected percentage of citizens. Next, we add a participation statement path, something very amorphic that needs to be processed at local level, and so we hope it will get better. But I don't think that's gonna work. My group has taken a critical look at the description of the pilot that the Minister in his reply is more enthusiastic about each time than we are. In addition, we hear the teachers here and there sputtering that things have to be different. On this basis, we believe that it is better to stick to the old for the time being and to ensure that the municipalities are given more direction. In short: I'm not that excited about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u25	I have the feeling that Mr Don has read half of the bill, because one part of the bill is about the participation declaration...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u27	... and the other part of the bill is about the increasing role of the municipalities. In order to avoid throwing the child away with the bath water, my question is whether he is not enthusiastic about the part of the bill that deals with the legal anchoring of the role of the municipality and of the municipal role in social guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u28	Yeah, you heard me say that, too. I have spoken a very small salient sentence, but you will have escaped that quickly. The present bill may be withdrawn from me. The declaration of participation may come from me, but, well, there is one legislative proposal in front of it with those two different parts in it. As far as we are concerned, the Statement of Participation is... Last night, I was thinking, "You'd better start macramizing the neighborhood with the settlers." Maybe you'll get further on that than with a participation statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u29	Mr Don therefore felt that, because of the declaration of participation, there should be no additional impetus or opportunities or structural resources for the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u30	You know, Mr President, I am standing here as a Member of Parliament and I only have the opportunity to find something and say yes or no. Wait for the evaluation next year, Mrs Nooren, then there is another recovery option. Thank you. And I would like to wish the Minister every success in the debate right across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that it is a pleasure to have another debate with the Minister. It may not be the last time, you never know, but we would like to thank him for his efforts over the last four years and express our deep appreciation for his commitment to a demanding social portfolio in an economically difficult period. The subject we are debating today is the legal integration process of foreigners who want to build a life in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, this integration is not a success song. Some more than half of the people who have had to go through integration since the system change in 2013 have successfully completed this process. According to figures from the General Court, less than one third of citizens obtain the diploma within the prescribed period. For many citizens, the journey is not easy. The information is difficult to access for those who do not know the way, the costs are high and the loans that people have to take are substantial. Control of the quality of commercial trainers is inadequate. The exam itself is mainly an easy prey for satirical TV programs. "What to do with television when it is on during vacuuming? Entirely expand, stand by or turn the sound down?" Those who know the right answer to this typical question about the Dutch household show that they can become a good Dutch citizen. Personally, I regret that the option to turn the TV up, so that you can continue to understand it, was unfortunately missing from this list. There would therefore be every reason for an in-depth evaluation of why many integration pathways are so difficult, and for appropriate action to be taken. Unfortunately, the cabinet does not choose to do so, nor does it wait for the results of the planned evaluation in 2018. The Minister comes forward with the present bill. This regulates as extras a mandatory declaration of participation, and social guidance is laid down by law. Our first question is why the cabinet makes this choice and does not wait for the evaluation to come up with a more comprehensive approach to improvement. Mr Don pointed that out as well. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has mixed feelings about this bill. Let me start with the plus and then make some critical comments. We welcome the fact that the law guarantees the social support of newcomers, especially asylum seekers and status holders, and re-establishs responsibility for this with the municipalities. The municipality is also in our view the administrative layer closest to the citizen and has the most direct view of how people integrate into their neighborhood, neighborhood or municipality. Moreover, municipalities, like no other, are able to make participation and integration pathways one part of wider integration from day forward. Municipalities can shape newcomers' routes of reception, housing and activation in the fields of education, work and income for a variety of groups. Many municipalities do and have continued to do so, without waiting for this law, even after the legislative amendment of 2013. Perhaps the major challenge in the area of asylum in 2015 has acted as a catalyst. But just to be clear, my group is not just about asylum seekers and status holders. Also for people who come to the Netherlands for other reasons, the municipality is the best party to work together with stakeholders on a coherent integration path. In principle, we should support the fact that this bill guarantees the practice that has been created or perhaps never completely disappeared, partly on the basis of the findings in the pilot municipalities. Otherwise, it is the compulsory participation declaration. We have a number of serious comments and questions to make. The first question in that context is whether the Minister can explain again why the Cabinet believes that the compulsory signing of a declaration of fine would motivate people to work for Dutch society and its values. Does the cabinet have so little faith in social support that it thinks that without this second threat of fines it will not work? Or is it an expression of regulation based on distrust of the citizen, a citizen who only moves when there is a threat of a fine? That doesn't promote intrinsic motivation, does it? And why, if there should be a sanction, does the cabinet leave it not to the consideration of the municipality, which is made entirely responsible for the entire guidance process? Moreover, apart from the fact that my group is not in itself very much in favour of extending the scope for administrative sanctions, we will not deepen that discussion further in this debate. Our Constitution requires that we do not discriminate. In this light, my group remains at odds with the unilateral imposition of the participation declaration on a specific group of newcomers. The EU and international conventions protect EU nationals and, for example, Turks from the obligation to become citizens and thus the signing of the declaration of participation. Whether you are born on one side of the Turkish-Syrian or Turkish-Iraq border or on the other side, decides whether or not you need to settle in and sign a participation declaration when you come to the Netherlands. Not your intention, not your motivation and not your distance from Dutch society determines whether you should participate on penalty of a fine, but the place from which you come. That's gonna keep sanding. Perhaps the Minister could make another last attempt to point out that this is not contrary to the Constitution and the ECHR. Then there is the content of the participation statement. Freedom, equality and solidarity and participation: according to the Minister, these are important values for which the Netherlands stands and which are literally worthy of being explicitly appointed in the Statement of Participation and therefore to be signed. They are wonderful values that are also explicitly protected in the Constitution. You may stand for your values and your principles, I say on behalf of my party. I wrote this sentence for the weekend, just to be clear. However, the interpretation and meaning of such concepts are not static, but evolve with time and circumstances. I'll take two out. Freedom of speech, for example. This is taken and defended in the media nowadays quite absolutely, but it has not always been so in our country and it does not apply to everyone either. Tough language, you can also swear and say what is not shunned in traditional media and social media, was not so long ago considered inappropriate or indecent. There is sometimes a thin line between the freedom to take the measure of someone right in front of him and the offence of insulting statements. Values and standards have never been worked out irrevocably or unequivocally, but are given meaning by the debate. There are still groups in society that are not served by curses on the radio and questions have recently been asked about them from this Chamber. This calls for reflection on what concept of freedom the citizen actually signs, except for what is already enshrined in the Constitution and therefore no longer needs to be signed. The same can be said of the concept of equivalence. This, too, is not a core value which is unchangeable and undisputed in social affairs. My mother was still one of the generation of women who was automatically fired the moment she married. Of course my father didn't. The now highly acclaimed gay marriage in our country is less than two decades old and then we had the scoop in this country. This, in my view, perfectly correct interpretation of the core value of equivalence is still not without discussion and, for example, Members of this Chamber do not always see it as very desirable. That is not what I mean as a sneak or a stab underwater, but as an example of the fact that views can be discussed. On the labour market, for example, there is no question of equality in our country to date, see the over-representation of top men in almost all sections of society, see the structurally lower remuneration of women compared to men in equal positions, and see the difficulty that people with a non-Dutch sounding surname have in getting a job through the letter selection. Again, under what concept of equivalence do we now ask citizens to sign, except for what the law already regulates and therefore does not require a signature? Or the other way around: why don't we ask all residents if they want to sign for more women at the top, equal pay and no discrimination in job applications? Then why are we only asking newcomers? My group fears that there will be something else. There is a danger that the declaration of participation may rather represent a kind of complacency of our own theoretical equal that does not exist in practice. A declaration of participation which presents our views as unambiguous and comprehensive and ignores the debate on them. And would you, newcomer, just sign by the cross? It is in its worst form the expression of a pedantic sound from society that sees an interpretation of our freedoms and achievements as the only right one and thus does not concern the open debate, but excludes it. And we're sorry about that. What my group considers to be one of the key values of our society is the fact that we live in a democratic rule of law. A rule of law that protects against arbitrariness, which prevents those in power from acting uncontrolledly and protects what is valuable or vulnerable. A rule of law which itself, moreover, deserves regular protection, for example, when it is under pressure and when we look for borders to combat serious issues such as terrorism or its fear. The word "right-wing state" does not appear in the declaration of participation as far as we have seen it, whereas in our view it is perhaps the most characteristic of the open western society in which we live and in which we know that beliefs, norms and values can shift over time. Can the Minister explain why such an important concept is not mentioned in the declaration of participation? In addition to freedom and equality, the Declaration also refers to solidarity and participation. In the view of my group, successful integration must come from both sides. RefugeeWork The Netherlands indicated in a response to the Participation Act: "everyone in our country should actually sign the Declaration." Would it not be a good idea if the cabinet wanted a signed declaration in the law that the municipality, as a representative of society, co-signed the declaration as a symbol of the reciprocity of integration? A municipality like Utrecht already does this. Does the Minister share the view that such an act does much more justice to a joint task and commitment than a unilateral declaration signed under duress of a fine? Finally. Citizens are important. Come on, let's go. Taalles from day one, gain knowledge of Dutch society in society and a sound and fair access to the labour market. These are the best conditions to become part of society. We welcome the legal role of the municipalities in the social assistance, but the obligation to sign a paper on penalty of a fine is not in our view the solution to the failing integration. That puts us in a difficult position. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. In times of great change, it is the art of confrontation with urgent societal problems not to fall into fast and ill-thought-out reflexes. It is better, if not necessary, to think carefully at first about the function of law, when it comes to concepts such as regulation, regulation and control. It often doesn't get much of that. Whether the use of the right leads to unintended or counterproductive effects. The idea of functionality, a good social order, disappears into the background. In this case, it would be about creating a kind of normative framework to move newcomers, based on shared values and views, to actively participate in our society as a contemporary citizen. The idea of social cohesion is a guiding principle. I say little news when I say that the urgency of this broad dossier has become sky high in recent years. It dominates the social debate. Recently, the Motivation agency found that almost half of all Dutch people want to stop immigration from Islamic countries. A study by Chatham House also produced similar results for ten other European countries. Of course, this is the category of 'wrong populists'. That this objectionable group is not alone, I would like to illustrate here, for example the VVD stated in 2010 that it is important to "keep the new influx of disadvantaged migrants as small as possible. Otherwise, it goes beyond the strength of our society." The CDA ditto. And then the PvdA, in its 2005 principle manifesto, perhaps Mr Asscher remembers that which calls for "selective migration, because no society has unlimited absorption capacity." Words that Mr Aboutaleb has recently tightened but are not yet fully shared within his party. And it is not for nothing that the ESC, the WRR and the SCP have been pointing out to this cabinet for years that current policies lead to "non-participation and reduced social cohesion." That policy, as far as it is concerned, has helped little to nothing. The sharp increase in the number of status holders over the last two years, well above 70 000, has further increased the problem outlined, if not to an unmanageable height. The policy challenge also seems unstoppable for a new cabinet to form, caught in an almost impossible task of curbing the influx and cost of asylum migration and of shaping integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u33	I thought we were talking about the participation statement, Mr. Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u34	Yeah, I'll get to that, too. If Mr. Don can give me a moment, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u35	So this is the introduction to your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u36	Yes, this is the introduction. I'd like to outline this in a little bit more detail. This can only help to appreciate this wonderful declaration of participation. So I'll be right on, Mr. Don. Illustration for this powerlessness is that the cost of assistance has now exploded. It manifests the permanent cramp of the cabinet. All possible conversations or preconceptions for a new cabinet, which should show a little more decisiveness than today, show little hope. The division is too great. That was proven yesterday. And yet another polder solution would not have provided much relief. The question is also whether there will be any. If there's no control of admission, you can integrate what you want. And if there are no limits, the sky is indeed the limit. The big question is therefore how the limited legislative proposal can be assessed in this light. First of all, it should be noted that since the introduction of the unfortunate Participation Act in mid-2014, the term "statement of participation', which was previously even more euphemistically referred to as a participation contract, has been an outdated concept. The introduction of the misplaced term "participant society" at the time served as an opportunity argument to drastically repair the bottom of society, with the sole aim of a bare cut of 1.8 billion. This rather than the pretentious goal of helping as many people as possible to work. Why this empty and outdated concept is still being used is evidently in the absence of a genuine conceptual approach to content. According to the documents, the participation statement is a mandatory new part of the integration process in the broader framework of the 2013 Integration Act. These are two elements: an introduction to the Dutch core values and the signing of the declaration. Adding such a new part raises two questions: on the one hand, whether the existing process of integration is incomplete or perhaps less effective and needs improvement and, on the other hand, whether this new aspect can have added value in that case. With regard to the first, it can be noted that the current integration policy, Mr Don, has already described this in a striking way from the 2013 Law on Integration, on many fronts, is seriously inadequate. The Court of Auditors was very clear about this at the beginning of this year: its own responsibility does not work in practice, the quality of the integration course has exploded due to failed market forces and is not tested, the success rate is halved to 39 and the language level is much lower, and sanctions have no effect and are not enforceable. Consequences: significantly less integration, hardly job opportunities and a further, virtually unbridgeable, widening the gap with the already difficult labour market. Costs in 2015: 43 million. In short, a one-way trip to UWV. It is not just the policy that is, as it turns out, rather flawed. Unfortunately, the implementation is not lagging behind. For example, it has recently become known that the IND has managed to flatten the success rates in a rather clumsy way: 3,000 exemptions. No directing, no coordination, no scrutiny and also a wrong execution. The urgency is not felt, an urgency that was mentioned earlier, in 2015, by the WRR in his policy letter with staggering conclusions. That was no reason for this cabinet to take any action. The laconic letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff dated 1 June. is a very sad illustration of this lack of urgency. One would say: time for an in-depth evaluation of the current integration policy, an integrated evaluation, which has already been pointed out by other parties, before further framing a wrecked structure, as I have just indicated. Unfortunately, nothing less is true. The review of the Integration Act will only be published in spring 2018, as mustard after the meal. The fact that an analysis of the integration results has already been carried out in advance and that measures have been taken or will be taken, is very similar to panic football to ease the moods. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. They look like patch drugs. How can bad policies and implementation be repaired at all? It is the well-known instrumental rule reflex, which blocks the conduct of a fundamental discussion in advance. As the Minister points out, this is "more for formation." We're gonna see that, I hope. So much for policy and implementation, more precisely its shortcomings and the complete lack of direction. Now let's take a look at the explanation that's in front of us. The primary question is what exactly is the purpose behind the explanation. What is the added value in the already existing integration process? Providing a "new fixed moment in a continuous learning line about the Dutch core values" is a very limited addition, especially since the current package already includes a course of standards and values. Okay, so overlap. The "repeating our values', as the Minister said, merely confirms this conclusion: a very lean basis for a legislative proposal. This is without prejudice to the fact that the PVV is in favour of learning the language and endorses our core values. The selective positive image of the cabinet, as it would follow from an evaluation of the pilot participation statement, is contradicted by the critical observations in the same report of Regioplan; it's just how you read it. The ambition of the statement is limited to noting and informing at most; there is reasonable doubt about the effects on integration and participation. The character is too non-binding: a number of newcomers do not even respond to the invitation. A one-off meeting with offer and festive event was also considered to be very limited, by the way, one-sided signing of the so-called "value module." So you can get all that out of the story of Regioplan. Why was the target group later reduced to the category of newcomers and family and did not include European and Turkish non-citizen migrants? This has been recalled before; I believe by the Labour Party. Does the Minister really think that these groups automatically endorse our core values, let alone internalize them? The fact that reality is another has been experienced several times. We have too many examples. The statement itself pretends to be a list of our national values and associated rules of play, but the whole is stuck in a non-binding vague list, wrapped in the inviting language of the creator-society society and to interpret it at will. Does the Minister really think that with these texts newcomers with a completely different background will embrace our society? Does the Minister think that active participation requires a piece of paper? Isn't it just that in practice everyone simply signs to avoid the fine, and thinks: figure it out? I've already heard the word "intrinsic motivation" sound here. Is it not the other way around, that everyone who comes here should be deemed to recognize and respect our values and, if not, in the terminology of a well-known VVD person can "pick up"? The Dutch order of lawyers rightly states that the so-called "core values" are vaguely formulated and the statement does not contribute to integration. Where does it say, among other things, that the left-wing ideology term "solidarity" is a core value or legal obligation? The whole is a rather random combination of selective concepts. The fact that an amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives stating that an amendment to the text of the declaration should always be offered to both Chambers is slightly ridiculous in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u37	Does Mr Kok intend to make a better contribution to the declaration of participation? The law also states that there will or may be additions to ministerial regulations, which will also be submitted to the Chamber. There's another question. In his speech, Mr Kok indicated that he did not very much agree with the number of people allowed to enter the Netherlands; let me put it carefully. Once these people are here and are getting settled, do we want us to get them on the right route as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u38	Let me confine myself to the declaration of participation. I think that this 'paper' is a superfluous article. I had to take it up myself to see what it is exactly, because it wasn't even in our pieces. As I have already said, it is overlapping with an existing route. It is a course that is given at an early stage, at a time when the language is not even powerful. For this reason, it even needs to be translated into thirteen languages. It happens at a festive meeting one afternoon. It's untimely, premature. It's too thin, it's too noncommittal and they sign because there's a fine on it. This kind of piece does not contribute at all to any form of integration or acceleration of an integration process. My advice would be: wait for the evaluation in 2018 to get a better view of what has not gone well. With regard to the argument in my introduction about the numbers entering our country: if you do not set limits and the sky is the limit, you increase the problem. That will certainly not contribute to a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u39	Let me leave the last point. I would like to say a few words about the previous one. I can imagine that one way or another you want people who come in here to quickly begin to understand what this society is like. Some have not come here with premeditated thought, in the sense: that is the society where I want to be. For example, they fled here, knowing that they are safe here at least. They want to integrate as soon as possible. That is why such a declaration of participation is very beneficial, or am I simply too positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u40	You're way too positive. Perhaps that will also be mentioned in your contribution. I am certainly not positive about the declaration of participation in itself. It is a patchwork, which has been deployed at an early stage, before there is an evaluation of the current Integration Act at all. It's not gonna work at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u41	Now we already know that the Integration Act is not working very well; at least that is what you indicated yourself. But then you actually say to the government: wait until there is an evaluation before doing anything. You could also reason the other way around: okay, apparently we already notice that something extra is needed; this can also be a huge incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u42	I don't think that's gonna provide any kind of incentive. It has just been indicated that 58% do not even understand what it is about when reading this piece, if they can already read it, if they do not already need a translator or if it is not already written in their language. Moreover, there is overlap: in the entire integration process there is already a piece called "knowing values of our society." So the story is basically totally double-up. So why is this? I'm not the only one who feels that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr Kok clearly and explicitly states what is not good about it. My question is a little bit: does Mr Kok have any idea how? Now it seems that he says: the integration is not going well, but there is no need to do anything about it to make it better; I am waiting for that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u44	This seems to me to be primarily on the board of the cabinet or the new cabinet. That is difficult enough, given the developments that are coming to us. In any case, it is on the cabinet board to give a good follow-up to this. This seems to me to be one of the priority dossiers that the Netherlands is gradually familiar with in addition to the unstable labour market. Here they come together. We have the issue of migration and the labour market dossier, which in itself is difficult enough. If you put it together and put this bill into it, it will indeed become even more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u45	Should I conclude from this that the PVV has no idea how the integration can be more successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u46	At least I know how not to. We indicate that you first have to look closely at the unlimited influx into our country. Start with that in a Dutch context or in a European context. That doesn't matter so that you can make it manageable. I have not for nothing pointed out all the other parties that have kept the same story in the past, which is often forgotten here. You create your own problems when your regulations are out of order. Then the mop with the tap open and you see what happens. You can say the second part of this bill is beautiful. You're skipping the fence at the county. Of course, the municipality is the most obvious actor to pick this up. I can imagine that very well. In recent years, however, the municipalities have been given so much in the social domain that I wonder in all my heart whether they are not going in the same direction. In addition, local needs are always being addressed. It can be changed locally. This whole system is watering down under your hands. I will come to that in a moment, but I do not think that will be the right way either. Nor do I have a ready-made solution to this major problem, if that is what you expect from me. I have to be honest. It has become an uncontrollable problem and it is only getting bigger and worse. I'm trying to get back to my argument. The amendment in the House of Representatives calls for the strange suggestion that the core values are flexible. Another point is that the declaration must be signed at the beginning of the admissions process and that the Dutch language is not powerful. The brochure Kernwaarden (Kernwaarden) I didn't make up the title "Kernwaarden" (Kernwaarden) must be reviewed on an afternoon. The people involved have no idea what they are signing. You can't blame them for that. The non-committality is further underlined by the statement that "can't be required that the Dutch core values are innerized." That's the well-known intrinsic motivation. In my opinion, this also undermines the last of the added value. Equally significant for the appreciation of the statement is that the municipalities themselves shape the introduction into the core values by "let them match local needs." What's that supposed to mean? A further flattening of the already gratuite text lies in reason. What is to be imagined here? Is the greater role for the municipalities in the social guidance as a new element in the process? In this context, it is regrettable to note that, on the one hand, the development of this element is vague and contains little news and, on the other hand, the freedom of policy is very broad. The view of the already diffuse decentralised implementation in the social domain is therefore even worse. This also applies to the use of the €2,370 for the supervision of each citizen. Enough said about an apparently limited bill. It should be made clear that the context is wider and more problematic. We await the Secretary of State's response with interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Kok. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I'm glad you're here. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u48	Mr. Chairman. The country's wise, the country's honor. Those who set foot on foreign soil benefit from knowing what the mores are in the country of arrival. This makes it easier to get wiser, to contact the local population and thus the acceptance of the stranger. What applies to the mores also applies to the laws and regulations. Anyone who does not know what written and unwritten laws he or she has to comply with can suffer from them himself and possibly harm others. If the present bill is adopted in this Chamber, the participation certificate will be added to the route for settlers. The journey consists of an introduction to the Dutch core values......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The signatory states that he must respect the core values set out in the declaration. That doesn't mean he or she has to infuse them. However, he or she must accept and respect how we in the Netherlands treat each other. In addition, the signatory declares that he will participate in Dutch society and to count on being able to do so. My group considers the core values set out in the Declaration of Participation to be very important and attaches great importance to the respect and conduct of those who live in our country. Some of these values are enshrined in the law; think of the prohibition of discrimination. But it is precisely values and standards that are more important than what is required and prohibited by law. For example, my group considers it important that women, regardless of their clothing, should not be afraid that they are not accepted and respected. Unlike many of the legislative proposals that have been reviewed in this Chamber, pilots have been preceded by this bill, and that is commendable. I will be speaking later on about the destructive opinion that the General Court of Auditors had earlier this year on the lack of preparation for this issue of the Civilisation Act 2013. The research carried out by Regioplan on the pilots suggests that these pilots have succeeded in, among other things, the extent to which the participating newcomers say they feel more welcome in their municipality by the participation process. This is all the more true for refugees, 90% of whom, according to Regioplan, indicate themselves much more and 9% say they feel a little more welcome. Any citizen who feels more welcome through the journey and thinks he knows the way is profit. But the question is whether the voluntary pilot has a predictive effect on the effects of a legally required journey. From a scientific-methodological point of view, I think that's unlikely. The above percentages are based on a questionnaire of 462 participants, while the total number of participants in the pilots was over 4,000. In itself, this is a sample of sufficient size. But unless I've misunderstood, participating in the pilot was based on self-selection. The participants thus do not constitute a random sample of the group for which this legislative proposal is intended. In addition, compulsory participation and signing on penalty of a fine can undermine the intrinsic motivation; it has been said before in this house. In this context, I would also ask the Minister whether it is true that those who do not sign can not have access to Dutch citizenship. If so, what is the justification for the fine? It continues to speculate whether participation in the pilot has also led to more knowledge and respect for our core values and increased participation, because neither knowledge nor participation has been measured. Mr. Don mentioned it. With a little goodwill, the completion of a participation path and the signing of a participation declaration could be seen as a rite of passage. A festive moment, a milestone to think about, something that gives weight to the step people are taking and the responsibilities that go with it. But the penalty in the event of refusal removes all that shine and symbolism and welcome to settlers. I ask the Minister what value is the signing of a statement if there is a fine on non-signing. The signing of the declaration could also be similar to the taking of the banker's oath, for which this Chamber passed a law a few years ago. Such an oath is considered primarily as an instrument to make people aware of the importance of certain behavior. In the case of the banker's oath, this behaviour is central to the customer. For a beneficial effect of such an oath on the behaviour of people who are not already intrinsically motivated, there is no scientific basis. But the oath is something that bankers can rely on if the working environment requires them to behave in violation of the oath they have taken, or if that working environment itself shows behavior that is contrary to the oath. In the written round, I asked the Minister whether he would also provide the last position for the participation declaration, and if so, to whom newcomers would be able to avail themselves of the participation declaration. The Minister's reply was that the participation declaration has a different purpose and character than the banker's oath and that in the event of action in breach of the core values normal laws and regulations apply. Does this mean that all the legally permitted behavior is in line with the core values? If so, is the signing of the declaration not the same as declaring not to violate the law? Then why is there still recourse to the core values? I mentioned earlier that my group considers the core values mentioned in the Declaration of Participation to be very important. On behalf of the Ministry of SZW, ProDemos has developed a Workshop Statement of Participation for the mandatory introduction into the core values. One of the components is: how do I tackle a difficult situation? And in this case, one of the difficult framing situations is not the vacuum cleaner and/or television and not the wedding in the east or in Amsterdam, but the invitation of a homosexual colleague to his marriage. That in itself already gives a non-neutral message about gay marriage and it is apparently assumed that the newcomer has trouble with this marriage and does not want to go there. The workshop aims to teach the participants how to deal with this. A first suggested option is to explain this to the upcoming groom, the second is to pay for the gift but not to go to the wedding, and the third is to think up an excuse not to go. I ask the Minister whether he does not consider it to be participation to be a gay marriage and to recommend ways of getting out of it as a way of promoting participation. I also ask the Minister whether he believes that these solutions reflect our core values and standards of behaviour. I was raised with "you will not give false testimony." I am looking around now, including those who supported the bill in the House of Representatives, because I am certainly not the only one in this House. Isn't the suggestion of making up an excuse the same as inciting a lie? I wonder whether the speaker, after me, will agree to this. I would also ask the Minister how not visiting a colleague's marriage simply because he is gay relates, in his view, to the core value of equivalence mentioned in the participation declaration, with the participation declaration explicitly stating that discrimination against homosexuals is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u49	I had the impression that it took so long to look around that I almost felt compelled to ask a question. Could it be that the opinion that someone doesn't agree to the gay marriage has something to do with freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u50	Having an opinion is allowed in this country. So much for my comments and questions about this bill in itself. I would also like to assess the legislative proposal as a whole in terms of integration policy. Earlier this year, the General Court of Auditors, I mentioned for a moment, made a devastating assessment of the Civilisation Act 2013. The law has been introduced, according to the Court of Auditors, without considering in advance the possible consequences in practice, the law was, in particular, unsubstantiated on its own responsibility and has not worked, the quality of integration courses is not reviewed, the transparency in the course market is limited to choosing an appropriate route, it is not clear whether sanctions are effective, fewer people succeed within the legal period than under the previous Act of integration from 2007 and so I can continue. In my group's view, all this should lead to a review and review of the whole integration policy, rather than adding a path of participation whose effects have not been demonstrated, to which the disadvantages mentioned above are attached and which cannot be ruled out as having counterproductive effects. With this bill, aren't we heading for a nuclear-value disaster? Thanks to Mr Schnabel for a beautiful candidate for Word of the Year 2017. I'd like to leave it in the first round. All in all, it will be clear that my group has great hesitation in this legislative proposal. But I'd like to give the Minister or, better still, the Secretary of State the chance to convince us and look forward to her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. Every Sunday morning we read the ten commandments in the divine service. I was pleasantly surprised that Mrs Prast quoted one of those ten commandments: you will not speak false testimony. I myself brought another commandment to this debate. It is striking that the stranger is mentioned in it. I quote from Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 4, just like Mrs Prast before, from the American translation, which was not ever made for nothing by order of the States General: "Remember the Sabbath day, that you sanctify it. Six days thou shalt labor, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: and thou shalt do no work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy servant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is in thy gates." What strikes me is a kind of reciprocity: the stranger is supposed to live by the rules that apply to the people, but the inhabitants have a duty to take care of them. Beautiful interaction. And interesting for our attitude towards foreigners in our country and for my group's view of the legislative proposal before us, the declaration of participation in the integration examination. Today it is not about who is or is not allowed in the Netherlands. This legislative proposal regulates the introduction of a certificate of participation for immigrant citizens, so for those who are already clearly entitled to remain in the Netherlands. They do, however, have a process of integration in which they must participate. If a foreigner has chosen to settle in the Netherlands and is admitted, he or she may also be expected to adopt a positive attitude to participate and contribute to our society. He will have to be integrated in such a way that he can stand on his own two feet in the future, and we will have to help him; there you will have reciprocity again. It is therefore also good that this responsibility is laid down more with the municipality. As far as I am concerned, that does not mean that they have to take over every habit of Dutch people; certainly the bad habits should not be allowed to happen. But they, like the native citizens of the Netherlands, will have to abide by the laws and regulations of our country. Integration is promoted when newcomers know where they stand and what to expect in the country of arrival. The creation of clarity begins with integration. For example, the Dutch identity and tradition must be clearly indicated. I am thinking in particular of the good values and standards which can be traced back to the Christian traditions of our country. This law has been amended in the Lower House by Dijkgraaf and Heerma (34584, no. 26) is strengthened by a clear wording in Article 7a (4) and I quote: "The participation declaration process ends with a declaration of participation. This statement contains the following final formula: I declare that I have taken note of the values and rules of Dutch society and that I respect them. I declare that I want to actively contribute to Dutch society and I am counting on my fellow citizens to give me the space to do so." Once again, there is reciprocity. I have a few more questions for the Minister, or the Secretary of State. How does this relate to Article 8 (2) which states that the text of the declaration of participation is to be established by ministerial regulation? It is striking that Article 7 refers to the final formula. Can my group conclude from this that there can be a prior wording laid down in a ministerial arrangement? Can the government confirm that it is not intended for municipalities to use their own text for the declaration of participation? Then it is important to see how things work out. What are the consequences for the signed participation declaration if a foreigner is stuck in the follow-up? Can the signature be cancelled or can the participation declaration be annulled by a municipality if a foreigner behaves improperly or if he fails to fulfil his obligations? Is it possible to go on a new route? Finally, is the Minister prepared to evaluate or involve the impact of this law in the forthcoming evaluation in the sense that there will be a clear picture of the number of declarations of participation signed, as well as a feedback of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the declaration of participation? I look forward to the reaction of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u52	I have two questions for Mr Schalk. Mr Schalk, I would like to learn a little from you about the ten commandments. We don't have to discuss them here, because we're not on the pulpit. The ten commandments also include reciprocity. That's a command, a standard, a value. By repeating the commandments, you hope to stick to them and create a connection between people. There's no government fine attached to it. So it's a morality you meet. Mr Schalk made the connection to the declaration of participation, to equivalence. It is also in the ten commandments: when we invite one, the other tries to connect with the one who is invited. That's good, but if the invited party doesn't participate in this, he gets a sanction from the government of €340 or €350, plus that he gets no support from DUO anymore. That's pretty harsh. I don't think it's that hot. Then I come to my second question. At the moment, the law on integration is quite tough in its implementation: it cracks and squeaks, according to the Court's report. It's been discussed a few times. Now we are going to add a new element: the participation declaration. I've always learned that when something squeaks and cracks, you better put a few drops of oil in it, take a good look at where that squeaks and squeaks comes from, take a look at the place and listen carefully. The Statement of Participation is based on a pilot that is reasonably ambiguous. Why don't we just wait until the evaluation's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u53	Those are two wonderful questions. I shall begin with the ten commandments, because they appeal to me and, apparently, to Mr Don. Moreover, I did not say that you see equivalence in this, but reciprocity. That's what I notice for the right exegesis, when it comes to the ten commandments. It is true that a person who is read the ten commandments and does not comply with them does not have to pay a fine. However, there is a sanction, from our good God, that gave us that good law, but the one in the same Bible from which I quote, says: If you don't stick to it, I will punish you. That's a very simple route. Maybe you should look at those two wonderful values of justice and mercy. I would have liked these core values to be included in this law, in addition to equality, freedom and solidarity. Those two values could also be added very well to the ten commandments. They could have a great impact on our dealings with strangers. What sanction do you give and how do you do it if someone doesn't want to sign the participation statement? That is an interesting question for Mr Don. Suppose someone comes to the Netherlands and is admitted, but does not want to participate. How does Mr Don feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u54	Let's keep the discussion a little streamlined. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I know the Minister has other obligations as well. You may respond very briefly, Mr Don, and then Mr Schalk again, but then your party is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u55	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. The main question then is, of course, what we mean by participation. If someone doesn't want to participate, if someone doesn't want to behave according to our rules, then we have laws to sanction him. We'll have to apply it. That's what criminal law and civil law are for, if you harm others. That's what defines our bandwidth. Participating means inviting the other person, reaching out and saying: this is what you can expect from me, what can I expect from you? So you have an active role in that. Now the role of the government comes back in it. I think that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u56	Will you be brief, Mr. Don?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u57	I find the role of the government in this difficult. We must have a dialogue, but if someone who enters our society wants to have a conversation, he must have it with his neighbors and not with the municipality. The municipality, the government, can only invite him to this: talk to your neighbors. Participating is for me so you behave in the here and now. The Dutch language and work are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u58	I could discuss this for hours, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u59	We're not gonna do that, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u60	No, we're not gonna do that. The new element that Mr Don asked me about was cracking and sanding. I immediately thought: a drop of oil should be added. That's when he said it himself: normally you add some oil. So, while we already know it's cracking and sanding, you can wait until we get the evaluation, then we're gonna come up with something else or do something new, but I don't think it's weird at all that a government that now finds that it's sanding and cracking, picking up the oil can and looking for a cure. I do not know whether the participation declaration is the right instrument. I can't see that. That is why I asked: are you going to evaluate it and will we get it back? But it might be an element that the cracking and sanding would solve something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 3:50 p.m. Can you handle that too, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u62	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u63	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Integration Act and some other laws relating to the addition of the participation statement to the integration examination and the legal establishment of social assistance (34584). I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I am looking around your Chamber and I have been travelling back from Goes, because I had just arrived at the VNG Congress, trying to follow the debate as closely as possible in the first term. Edoch, from Zeeland, that is certainly not easy. I have really listened to the contributions of a number of spokesmen and I have been able to read the contributions of the other spokesmen quickly on paper. I will try to provide the Chamber with a first-term response as best I can. It is clear, of course, that I have not had this bill under my own care and that I am here to replace the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I'd be delighted to do that, because it's about something. That is why it is so important that all the spokesmen have contributed to this. I would very much like to respond to their contributions. I just said I came from the annual congress of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Well, that's the way it goes in human life sometimes. It's stupid coincidence. Of course, these municipalities play a very important role in this legislative proposal. In fact, they are our fellow governments and we trust them very much. Fortunately, they have freedom of policy and can really do their utmost to put their citizens in a position so that everyone in such a municipality can participate. That is what participation is about, and that is what this statement is about, of course. If I try to bring together the contributions of the spokesmen in a nutshell, then every honourable Member has raised a point this afternoon about the exact purpose of the statement. Why is there a sanction and what is the added value of that explanation for the people involved? I should like to say a few words about this at first instance. Why has the government prepared this bill at all? Some spokesmen, of course, have also spoken about the fact that our country already has a fairly long track record and that a new law came into force in 2013, giving people three years to master it. In 2016, this law was reviewed and, as all spokesmen have pointed out, there are some points for improvement. Well, then maybe I'll put it mildly. These improvements are now being taken very seriously by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. And you should. That in terms of integration as such and the fact that in 2016, three years after the entry into force of this new legislation, the case has been reviewed and there have really been a number of points that need to be improved. The role of the municipalities is, of course, essential. They know, like no other, how to involve people in society. The position of municipalities is now really a point of attention no. 1. The municipality should also look at the participation statement. If people come here and are interested in our society, and of course you do so when you come here as a refugee, because you want to build a new life here and you understand that you must also want to look at the way society manifests itself in the Netherlands, then it is very worthwhile to put on the values of all of us for the people it concerns. The experience in not only 2015 but also far ahead shows that people who really are looking for how they can get those values as quickly and as easily as possible, how they can know as quickly as possible what this country stands for and what the people in this country are going for, what they think is the essence and how they can find the connection with those people in that new country as soon as possible, without, of course, burying themselves their own roots if I may express myself like this. I therefore believe that the declaration of participation can be an excellent instrument for this. In fact, this declaration of participation contains in a nutshell exactly what we all stand for in our country, which is Article 1 of our Constitution, on which we can and want to be called upon and on each time and which is the essence of living together for us. I therefore believe that it is very worthwhile for people who are new in our country to be able to demonstrate very quickly that they agree with that statement. I'm just saying this from my own experiences. I have very good colleagues from the Minister who have given me a lot of text here, but I think it is essential to stress that, if you are in our country for a year and you do want to endorse that statement, it is a great good and a great party. The municipalities are also welcome to make this a celebration. You must also feel welcome in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u65	The Secretary of State says that's what you want when you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u66	If you take this microphone, you can look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u67	Yeah, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u68	The Secretary of State says that people who come here are interested in us and that they want to show that they are interested in our country and in the values, standards and rules. She says that the declaration of participation will be a good instrument. But then why the duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u69	Because, of course, it's okay to ask people for something. If I am well informed about this bill, then at some point municipalities will report to DUO whether someone is really doing their best to join our society. If, after a year, it appears that, for whatever reason outside the scope of those people, that statement cannot yet be reached, the municipality can say to DUO that there is no need for a sanction at all. If someone has been here for a very long time and refuses to sign that statement, I can imagine that at some point the municipality will say to DUO: we have now asked seven times to do something, but nothing will come. I can imagine that there could be a sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u70	Then I hear the Secretary of State say that this is not meant for those who are of course interested in our country, but actually for those who do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u71	No, I don't think I agree with Mrs. Prast. It's also just nice if you can show that you've really found your place of residence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u72	It might be nice to show you. The question is why you have to impose a fine on people to show it, if it's nice. As far as I am concerned, however, the answer has been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u73	I really think it's and-and. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u74	I understand that the Secretary of State has not been able to do everything, but at this point: the pilot evaluation shows that 17% of the people say that they only sign because the municipalities have indicated that they have to sign. The biggest search for us in this Chamber is about the pilot that was focused on volunteering. It is now being rolled out throughout the Netherlands. The struggle we are having here is why the government has not continued voluntary action and is using sanctions in the background. I know that the cabinet was not in favour of the loan and that the amendment was adopted with a negative opinion from the government. Why didn't the voluntary journey continue? That will emphasise precisely what the Secretary of State is now expressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u75	In practice, of course, we give municipalities a lot of opportunities, in all policy areas, to do a lot of good with their citizens, in full confidence. However, we also give municipalities the possibility, if for any reason a stick is needed behind the door, to handle that stick behind the door. In practice, I think it will be the case with regard to this statement that municipalities are constantly looking at how this man or this woman is doing and whether they should advise DUO to implement that sanction. After a year, of course, that's pretty soon, I think. The municipality will therefore watch every time exactly how a newcomer manifests himself in this society. If a newcomer has been new here for a long time, you can ask the man or woman in question to sign this declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u76	I'm trying to listen to what the Secretary of State says. The bill says you have to sign the participation statement within a year. You must not only do the participation process, but you must also sign the declaration. Does the Secretary of State say that after that there will be room for municipalities to deviate from that? If so, how can we ensure that there is no arbitrariness between the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u77	Just to be sure, I will return to this in the second term. I have just asked our supporters for this particular point of attention. I've been told that after a year you should want to sign in order. If the municipality in question thinks that there is nothing to blame for you because you have just had all kinds of other things under your care, in such a way that you are not yet able to sign, then the municipality can say to DUO: at this moment this gentleman or lady cannot and must do so at a later date. However, I would like to come back to this very specifically in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mrs Oomen, the Secretary of State has said that she will return to Mrs Nooren's subject in the second term. Are you going on this subject or on something else? Otherwise, we'll wait for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u79	Well, I'm gonna go by a little bit. I wonder whether what the Secretary of State is now saying should not be dealt with in the General Measure of Management, in accordance with Article 18, which is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u80	That could be something I report to the Chamber in my second term. I have just received a text saying: 'By linking a sanction to the culpable failure to complete the participation declaration process in good time, the importance of the pathway for society and the migrant is stressed'. If it is not reproachable, you must also have the space to share it with DUO. So I would like to come back to this and see if anything else should be arranged in an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr Don, can you wait for the second term on the side of the Secretary of State? Or is it urgent now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u82	I'm glad the Secretary of State is here. Perhaps it will come back to this later in its reply. I'd love to hear that. I am concerned about the function and actual use of the instrument of the participation declaration. We assume that this participation statement will help. We make that assumption on the basis of a pilot that's been carried out. You can look at that pilot from different angles. You can look at it cheerfully, but you can also look at it a little more critically. We have looked at it a little more critically. We simply cannot support the Minister's conclusion that this pilot was successful if we read the report. In short, my question is: do we not step into the air with this declaration of participation, in the hope that citizens will learn about our values and standards? Isn't that based on an assumption, a thought? Is that true in practice? I would like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u83	A recent question among the Dutch municipalities shows that about four out of five municipalities consider that the participation declaration process has added value as a contact point with the licence holders and for the integration of licence holders into Dutch society as a whole. I can also imagine that in practice, because it is an instrument, a vehicle, on the basis of which you can get in touch with citizens. If this instrument is used properly, including by the municipalities, it can be a really pleasant vehicle for the people in question. If you come here new and have to figure everything out yourself, it's sometimes looking for a needle in a haystack. This instrument could be used that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u84	I'll be brief. That is why we have the whole process of integration, to get to know the asylum seeker and to support him and to guide him in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u85	I try to move, as far as possible, into someone who comes a long way and wants to participate here in our Dutch society. Then maybe it's not such a crazy idea at all that you have some stages. Of course you start with the integration process, but you know that after a year you can at least sign that statement. You know you can be naturalized after at least five years. Anyone who has ever attended such a meeting, I know that Mr Don has also been an alderman, and knows that this is quite impressive, I say very euphemistic. People are very happy that they can be naturalized after five years. I can honestly imagine that people also find it pleasurable that they can "label" a number of moments throughout the whole process, sometimes for much longer than five years, through which they can explain themselves, if I may express myself in such a way, in the way of naturalization. Questions have been asked about the design of the participation declaration pathway. For this design material has been made available by ProDemos. Municipalities use this for the development of the participation declaration pathway. Sometimes it is also done by civil society organisations. For example, RefugeeWerk Netherlands has developed an extensive route that municipalities can use. It is now offered to asylum-seekers in several municipalities. The participants in this process are enthusiastic about the opportunities offered to them to learn about and exchange views on the core values and on what they mean in concrete terms. The early strengthening of knowledge of the Dutch core values of newcomers is of such importance that the participation declaration process has become non-binding. In this way, all new arrivals subject to entry into service will be reached. I just talked about that. The members of the Chamber also talked about the core values. It is the traditional freedom rights and social rights of the Dutch Constitution. It is essential in this legislative proposal that, in addition to the participation declaration, social assistance is offered to asylum migrants and their family members, because those asylum migrants have not been able to prepare themselves for their arrival to the Netherlands and generally do not have a partner in the Netherlands who already knows the way. With effect from 1 January 2016, the administrative agreement and the impact agreement concluded by the Empire with the VNG made a structural increase from €1,000 to €2,370 for an asylum beneficiary. A recent question among municipalities shows that municipalities embed the participatory process in a broad social context. I believe that this added value is indeed present. Let me now turn to a number of specific questions. One is about integration as such. The Labour Party, but it also applies to a number of other groups, is curious how the Minister is assessing the approach and success of integration at the moment. What lessons can be drawn, in addition to what has been included in the Minister's above-mentioned letter and in the legislative proposal we are discussing today, as regards the chosen approach and role-sharing in integration? In October 2016, the Minister announced measures to improve integration. Before the summer recess, he sent a letter to the House of Representatives giving the state of play of these measures. In that letter, he also indicates how he sees the evaluation of the Integration Act before him. This evaluation will take into account, inter alia, the chosen approach and role-sharing in integration. New analyses have been carried out in recent months in preparation for the evaluation. A comparison has been made with the previous integration system, which shows that the results do not differ very much from each other. A further analysis of this will be carried out in the evaluation of the law. Mr Don of the SP Group asked for a response to the Court's report. The Court looked at the results of the Law on Integration as of 1 July 2016. A relevant part of the citizens was not yet at the end of the deadline due, inter alia, to extensions. In the meantime, almost 60% of citizens from cohort 2013 have complied with the obligation of integration. 10% has been relieved of this. 32% are still subject to integration. A further analysis of this data, as well as a comparison with the result of the previous system, will be sent to the Chamber for the summer 2018. A number of spokesmen have asked what the WRR has recommended to the government. The WRR has recommended that policies should be based on a realistic assessment of people's ability to think and act. Of course, we know that it is very difficult to jump right here on the driving train. The question now is: does the cabinet think that the way in which integration is now organised, but also in the legislative proposal we are discussing today, has sufficient account been taken of this capacity, if I may put it this way? That is also a question on the part of the Labour Party. Now, the results of integration so far show that many people can pick up and complete integration independently, but there are groups that are lagging behind. These include, for example, women from a number of specific countries, such as Somalia, Eritrea and Afghanistan. They have no education or a very low level of education. It is now under consideration how these groups can be better supported. A number of municipalities are already working on this. The present legislative proposal provides for municipalities to offer the participation process and the social support of these migrants is legally anchored. Municipalities can play an active role as part of the social support and participation declaration in supporting citizens by approaching them quickly and helping them to start integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u86	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. My question goes a little further. The integration law of 2013 is very much based on its own responsibility. I call it mind and power. Factors such as stress, mental stress, refugees often have to do with mental stress, so sometimes people don't do something, because they just don't see it. Suppose you get a letter in Dutch and you don't understand it. This is happening, also around the declaration of participation in the Netherlands at the moment. Are we sufficiently aware of this? Perhaps a number of parties in this Chamber do; at least my party believes that we should be aware of this. For me, it goes beyond those extra courses for people from Somalia and Eritrea. That was already in the 2016 letter. I would like to see a reflection on the WRR report in the evaluation announced by the Minister, who, I understand from the Secretary of State, is also sent to this Chamber in the summer. What does this mean for the approach that is now being taken in the Integration Act? For me, it goes beyond doing something extra for people from Somalia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u87	I think this is a very commendable question. Of course, one refugee is not the other. A highly educated man from Syria is really different from a woman who has not been educated and has to come here alone. We must recognise these differences. That is why I am pleased that municipalities have to implement this policy. They want to do so, of course, because they know the people. I think it is a good idea to look very specifically at the capacity of people in the evaluation I have just mentioned. I think the whole Chamber thinks this is a good idea, because we know that not everyone is equal on this point. Then I come to the point made by GroenLinks (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I have to look to the left from time to time too, because it would be nice if the declaration of participation had a symbol of reciprocity in it. It is, of course, the declaration by the citizen that he has taken note of the Dutch values and standards. The participation declaration is not an agreement in which both parties, municipality and newcomer, declare that they subscribe to the Dutch core values. It is a declaration from the citizen himself and not an agreement between the government and the man or woman in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u88	It is always good to look to the left once in a while; I thank the Secretary of State for that. Some municipalities are already doing this. They said on their own initiative: would it not be nice for us to sign in one form or another, precisely in order to complete the process of participation, which is something other than a declaration of participation, in the way in which the Secretary of State spoke about it in her previous answers, namely as a festive moment when one can say that one has made something of it together? My group is mainly concerned with adding the intrinsic value and promoting the intrinsic motivation that this implies. We think it is worth promoting that more municipalities have a number of municipalities that have already made that choice. By signing it together, it is emphasized that we now have a statement, that there is a fine on it, but that is not the point; the point is that we have said together that we want to integrate. A reciprocal signature would have a nice symbolic value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u89	I am making this up on the spot, but I would like it to be possible, on the basis of the Acts of this debate, for municipalities to see whether they feel anything for this. I do not think we need to regulate this in the law, but I consider the way in which Mr Lintmeijer puts it as an invitation to municipalities to think about this independently. A college can then propose to the city council to bring that reciprocity into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u90	Thank you for this hand-out. I'll go a little further, because I don't think municipalities spontaneously read all the Acts. It would be nice if the cabinet would underline the words now expressed by the Secretary of State and do its best to convey this point, together with the First Chamber, to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u91	I do a lot of business with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, also in connection with other legislation. In my administrative consultations I always look at how we can further define the policy freedom of the municipalities, in such a way that there is a kind of framework. By the way, I assume that the UNG is following this debate very well and that it is really capable of reporting to its supporters on this issue. In this respect, I think that what GroenLinks has put forward here is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u92	It is not our intention to anchor this point in the law, because then we should start a novel procedure. That's not what I'm asking the Secretary of State. However, I would like to hear a little more explicitly that the cabinet thinks this is a good idea and that it will convey it to the UNG, whether through the Acts or not. If the Secretary of State can do this, I'm totally happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u93	If I can help Mr Lintmeijer to take a step forward in the final support of the bill, it is wonderful if a legislative proposal can be broadly supported, I am happy to do so. I am sure my colleague would like to conclave with the VNG to see how this can be arranged. A college of B and W may decide for itself whether that reciprocity is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u94	I do not want to detract from the warm feeling of the Secretary of State and Mr Lintmeijer, but the municipalities should now simply ask the citizen. The municipalities must say to the citizen: you must sign this declaration; you are obliged to follow this route. The municipalities have already signed that they must offer this route and work for the citizen. If it were a voluntary journey, a municipality could say: we think it is so important that we invite you and that we make an effort to convince you to do so. In that case, two signatures would be appropriate. But now it's just an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u95	It's just how you set it up. I believe that I have said in no uncertain terms that this obligation is indeed in place. However, I have also said that, when you come here, it's nice to have people think along with you about how you can become part of our community. If, from a psychological point of view too, it is inviting to sign the Statement of Participation from both sides, which is at the B and W College, then I do not see the objection to it. Moreover, I hear that it already exists in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u96	The pilot municipalities involved voluntary declarations of participation and voluntary declarations of participation. Now there's that obligation. Then, so to speak, the municipality has already put its signature on one side of the sheet and said: you must. Why not just remove the obligation and leave the inviting role with the municipalities? There will indeed have to be a novelle, but then we will really be in balance. At the moment, there is no balance between the municipality and the citizen, by having the municipality sign for a mandatory journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u97	I take note of that. I think we have exchanged enough about this. It has been pointed out that people can also engage in other activities in daily practice, so that they cannot integrate. Mrs Nooren asked a question about this. I think that we should explicitly include this in the evaluation, because this makes sense. I'm just gonna stop by the spokesperson's office and meet with Mrs. Oomen. She asks what exactly is the situation with regard to assistance. The assistance is part of my portfolio, so it's nice that I can say something about that. The CBS has reported that the absolute number of beneficiaries of assistance has increased. This growth is mainly due to the number of refugees who received a residence status in 2015. That is not strange at all, because it takes time to learn the language and find the way to the labour market. In previous systems, it proved to be a challenge to allow newcomers to find their way into the labour market. We are already seeing good examples of this. The increase in assistance is, therefore, largely due to the fact that we provide more people with a residence status with welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u98	My question focused on the long-term dependency of a benefit. It's not about the last two years. Because people are not adequately guided to work and to their own income, the cost of the assistance increases explosively. This is bad for the citizen and also bad for Dutch society. I would like some more information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u99	I understand. We have, of course, concluded an agreement with the VNG on a number of issues, such as housing, counselling, reintegration and language skills. I see good examples, and I assume that the VNG intends to provide people who have been granted residence status, not only with housing and welfare benefits, but also really to accompany them to the labour market as soon as possible. These people need a number of tools, including language learning. This happens to a very large extent in the labour market, because people also have work experience places. There are many entrepreneurs who offer work experience places and the language to these people on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u100	It is here that the Secretary of State could not be present at the first term and that the Minister had to leave. My input was to give the municipalities opportunities. They also have only the social guidance under this law. For this they receive an amount of €2,700. That's what the Secretary of State says they should do. This does not apply until the legislative proposal we are discussing has become law. I call for municipalities to play a greater role. They can also play this role with other people who need help from a benefit phase. You can't do that right now. I ask the cabinet to make integration a success and thus to give the municipalities a greater role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u101	The municipalities do get €2,370 per person for the social support, but they also get a share from the participation budget. This budget is primarily intended only for the reintegration of people into the labour market, i.e. helping people into the labour market, including those with an asylum background. So you have two pots that you can draw from when you work at the municipality. I see fine examples of municipalities that are busy with this. That does not prevent me from saying quite frankly that the last two Cabinets, of course, have also cut back on that P part, as it is called, because of the economic crisis. So I could imagine a new cabinet looking at that again. But yes, it is clear that I cannot rule over my grave, so spoke the Demissionary Secretary of State. Mrs Oomen asks whether the Minister is prepared to see how this integration can be made a greater success. My paper says it's up to a next cabinet, but that's too easy for me. The current minister is still there for a few weeks or months. I just said that a letter will be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I assume that the current outgoing minister will send that letter and, together with the municipalities, will propose building blocks to complete the matter. Then I come to the contribution of the Labour Party. I think I have already answered a large number of questions. How are municipalities encouraged to offer the route voluntarily to other newcomers? In the pilot, local authorities have gained experience in offering the participation declaration pathway to EU migrants as well. To ensure this knowledge and to make it available to all municipalities, three pilot municipalities, the Westland, Amsterdam and the North Limburg region, have been helped to ensure their experience and to disseminate among others municipalities. Dissemination of knowledge and experience by the three municipalities takes place through meetings, information fairs and reports. The instrument can thus also be used for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u102	I know the Secretary of State hasn't heard my contribution, but I think this is a rather lean answer. There is regular consultation between the Secretary of State and the VNG. It is also known that municipalities will do something especially if they get money for it. They get money for the burgers, not the rest. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to make the call in her letters to the VNG, which are always well read, to maintain that broader approach. Information is nice, but ultimately it's about keeping that approach, that broad approach, not least to not give citizens the idea that they're being treated differently from other newcomers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u103	Fine. I'm sending collectible letters to all the municipalities and I think it's a nice coincidence that I'm now allowed to do this debate and therefore put this item in the collection letter. I'll do that with the Minister. We have talked widely about the obligation. I'm just gonna browse through and try to do it as short as I can. There is another question on the part of the Labour Party: why not the participation process as a condition for starting an integration process? It is not intended that the migrant waits to start with the other parts of the integration process, for example learning Dutch, until the participation declaration process is completed. That makes sense to me. It's not really a condition to start the integration process, and I don't think that's a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u104	What did we intend to do with this question? I think it is important for everyone to endorse these values. For me, this should also apply to people who are still living in the asylum-seekers' centre and who do not yet have a statement. You are only allowed to settle in and you are only allowed to start with the participation process "That's how it is now stated in the letter "Just as soon as you have settled in the municipality'. The PvdA Group suggests to the Secretary of State to try to include elements of what is very nice about this declaration of participation in asylum seekers' centres. Those people are waiting a lot in those centers. In this way they can better understand which country they have come to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u105	Look, like all of us, Mrs Nooren has been in centres many times and has also seen that people are very interested in what is going on here in the Netherlands. They are accompanied by a lot of volunteers, but I also want to be in the right place. The participation declaration process as such takes place after establishment in the municipality, because of course the municipality has to accompany it. Then it is made possible that the municipalities can actually do the same. You can do one thing and don't leave the other, I'd like to say. Why was it not chosen to ask all Dutch people who reach the age of 18 to sign the declaration? There has been a Van Dam motion, on which there has been a cabinet reaction, on the transfer and transfer of shared values and the strengthening of interconnectivity in society. It states that it is important that not only newcomers, but all the Dutch subscribe to the values of the participation declaration. Against this background, it is intended that the ministers of SZW and BZK, in cooperation with the VNG, will develop a pilot to further develop this at municipal level in early 2018. I think I have answered the questions raised by the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u106	I had also asked a question about the intake test, which is important to do the integration course at the right language level. The question was: who makes sure people do the right intake test? I may not have read it correctly, but I have not been able to get the answer from the legislative proposal or from the explanatory statement. We know that the course is now offered by commercial parties, and as far as I am concerned, the responsibility for choosing the intake test is not with these providers. Who has that role, I ask the Secretary of State. I'll let her answer in second term too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u107	I'd love to. I will let Mrs Nooren know this in my second term. I now come to Mr Don's contribution. During the debate just now, Mr Don wondered why this bill is on the table and why the settlement of such a statement was not worked out in the Decision on integration, within the framework of the knowledge section of Dutch society. He wondered whether this was not unnecessary legislation. We have just talked about this, and it will not surprise Mr Don that the cabinet feels that there is no unnecessary legislation. It has been chosen to allow the participation declaration process to be a separate part of the integration examination, as both the time limit and the implementing body differ from the other parts of the integration examination. The deadline for completing the participation declaration pathway is one year and for the remaining parts a period of three years. In addition, it was deliberately chosen to have the participation declaration process offered by municipalities, while the remaining parts are offered by DUO. Therefore, a separate commitment in the Law is desirable and necessary. The next item, the pilot, has also been debated for a while. The SP Group does not see this as a good practice and this group believes that this pilot cannot be a starting point for the legal changes. The cabinet takes the view that an asylum seeker should be able to feel welcome in the Netherlands I have already said quite a few words about this and I have already said that about four of the five municipalities considered the added value of this route to be sufficient and that these municipalities would very much like to go through with it. The SP Group also asked whether the core values will soon be sufficiently known to newcomers. Asielmigranates first get acquainted with the Dutch core values in pre-integration in the azc. Family migrants do so in the basic examination abroad with the part KNS. Subsequently, both groups will go through the participation process. It is the government's belief that newcomers will soon be familiar with the Dutch core values in this way. Then I come to the contribution of GroenLinks Group. This group wondered why the rule of law was not included in the declaration of participation. The concepts in the participation declaration relate to classical fundamental rights or freedoms, to fundamental social rights, to the duty of care of the public authorities as set out in our Constitution, and to some basic principles about how we live together in the Netherlands. The government has endeavoured, by drawing up the Declaration of Participation, to list important classical and social fundamental rights and values relevant to the functioning of society. The list is not exhaustive. Municipalities are free to address and explain other relevant concepts in the participation declaration process. The Statement of Participation shall be annexed to the Integration Scheme. The choice of core values is confirmed by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in its research Shared values and a resilient democracy. This study shows that the Dutch people have a great deal of support for values such as democracy, freedom and equal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u108	I have a question on the issues that have been identified as core values. At the beginning of the State Secretary's speech, she spoke mainly about Article 1 of the Constitution, but later she was happy about the breadth of the Constitution. Can I take it that we regard the Constitution as a basis for these core values, and that only a few of them have been appointed to set out a broad range of values and thus to indicate what is at stake? Is that the intention of the participation statement? The Secretary of State also said that municipalities are free to fill in some things themselves. Is that even the point? This may mean that very new values are being 'infiltrated', while we should stick to those constitutional values.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u109	The declaration of participation as such is unambiguous, but in one section municipalities can, of course, discuss a number of issues very well with the people in question. I agree with the contribution of the Christian Union Group on the point that the four basic values and standards set out in the declaration are, as it were, an umbrella on all the other elements that we all share. So it is clear that these four are essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u110	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. If she also links these values to the SGP, I am even more satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u111	Excuse me, Mr Schalk! And we've had another run like this together. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u112	I call Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u113	Let me get this straight: I am speaking on behalf of GroenLinks. I understand that a number of so-called classical values have been chosen. I understand that the Secretary of State has not been able to listen to my speech, but I have said that these values, as they are included in the Declaration of Participation, are evolving. These classical values have different meanings and may vary by group or by part of the country. What binds us all and what is unchangeable in his system is the fact that we live in a rule of law. For my group, this is of a somewhat higher value than the values mentioned in the Declaration of Participation as such. That is why I ask on behalf of my group why we do not pay much more attention to what is unchangeable and what we stand for, namely living in a rule of law. Should we not emphasise this much more, in addition to, rather than, changing views on what freedom is and what solidarity is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u114	This is the second time that Mr Lintmeijer has made a commendable remark, and of course the rule of law is a very good thing for all of us. From his first interruption on reciprocity, I have said that it is good to read the Acts very carefully in the course of legal proceedings, and of course that also applies to this comment. The four issues included in the declaration stem from the rule of law and vice versa, one might say. I therefore agree that the rule of law is a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u115	I am now, of course, going to think about a third interruption, because if things go that well, it will be a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u116	Well, it's also very commendable business. That's the way it is. We have already discussed the issue of the obligation, which the GroenLinks Group has also asked a question about. The PVV Group asked what the value of the measures listed in the response of 8 May on integration was. The current system started in 2013, as I said. This means that as of 31 December 2016, the nominal three-year period for the entire first cohort has expired. Gradually, the practical signals come from things that can be improved in the new system. There is really no need to wait for a fundamental evaluation to make improvements already. That's what the Minister did. The fraction of the PVV asked what exactly is the purpose of the statement, outside of the continuous learning line and once again highlighting our values. I think I've already given many words to that. Of course, it is important that people who come here also subscribe to the values of Dutch society and actively contribute to that society. Why was the target group reduced and did not include European and Turkish non-citizen migrants? The government considers it very important that all newcomers who wish to settle here have knowledge of the rights and obligations in the Netherlands as well as the Dutch core values. For EU nationals, there is no possibility within the EU Treaty framework to make the signing of the participation declaration mandatory. Local authorities are always free to offer the participation declaration process on a voluntary basis to EU nationals and other non-citizen migrants. That's what we've been talking about. By the way, I have just received the declaration of participation. That is good, I say to Mr Lintmeijer: welcome to the Netherlands, the Netherlands is a democracy and a rule of law. Then I come to Mrs. Prast of D66. I was just there, the gay wedding. Doesn't the cabinet consider going to a gay marriage to be participation and recommending ways of getting out of it as participatory? Mrs. Prast just brought that up. That example is there, because it is a new aspect for many newcomers. It invites the participants of the participation declaration process to enter into the conversation. Gay marriage is an important expression of freedom and equality in the Netherlands and it is therefore important that you talk to the people. Personally, I am not of the excuses, if I may say so, and I have just heard the small debate on that point very positively. Another question on the part of D66 was whether this now means that all the legally permitted behavior is in line with the core values. The Statement of Participation shall not have any explicit rights and obligations that are enforceable by signature of the Declaration. The concepts used in the Declaration of Participation relate to classical fundamental rights, to freedom of expression and freedom of faith, to fundamental social rights, to the duty of care of the government as enshrined in our Constitution, and to some basic principles of how we live together in the Netherlands. Where there is a breach of one or more core values, the normal laws and regulations apply and will be acted on a regular basis. Why was an administrative fine chosen as an enforcement instrument? That's what Mrs. Prast asked. The Government considers that if a person culpably does not complete the participation declaration process in good time, an administrative fine is an appropriate enforcement instrument. The imposition of an administrative fine on those who do not take responsibility is fair to those who complete the participation declaration process in good time, make efforts to do so and may sometimes incur costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u117	The previous subject. The question is this. If you comply with the law in the Netherlands, do you act naturally according to the core values? Quite frankly, I have always understood that the mores and standards are not just about whether something is criminal or not, but also about whether we find anything acceptable or not in our dealings with each other. If it is just a question of whether something is in breach of legislation or not, and that was my question too, then signing a participation declaration is the same as saying: I will abide by the law in the Netherlands. The Minister said, and the Secretary of State reiterated the net, that acting in breach of the core values would be governed by normal laws and regulations. From this I conclude that core values and the laws and regulations that they express are the same. So we are not talking here about things like mores and integrity, in so far as those things are not punishable. That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u118	It is good that this is clarified. I think that Mrs Prast is very well aware of the fact that the mores, the values and the standards are indeed enshrined in the statement. If people who have signed the declaration violate laws and regulations, they will of course also be treated in this way, by regular means. But the mores is really in the statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u119	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u120	Otherwise, maybe we'll have a semantic discussion after all. It could be. Mrs Prast has asked another question. Doesn't the person who doesn't sign a participation certificate get access to Dutch citizenship? The failure to complete the integration examination means that the citizen has not yet fulfilled his or her obligation to enter and therefore cannot obtain a stronger right of residence such as an indefinite residence permit and cannot be naturalised. The non-signature of the participation declaration also means that a person is not eligible for a stronger right of residence or naturalisation. That is, of course, embedded in the whole process. Then I come to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which has also asked a number of questions. How does the inclusion of the Final Declaration in the Integration Act relate to Article 8 (2) which states that the text of the Declaration of Participation is defined by ministerial rules? Is there any other supplement to be expected? The answer is: the Act includes the final formula of the Statement of Participation. In addition to this final formula, the entire declaration of participation includes a definition of the four key values of freedom, equivalence, solidarity and participation, with an explanation of those concepts. The entire Statement of Participation is annexed to the Integration Scheme. If the text of the Statement of Participation is deemed desirable in the future, the proposed new text of the Statement of Participation will first be put before both Chambers. Then the SGP has pointed out that it is striking that Article 7 refers to the final formula. I just went into that. What are the consequences for the signed participation declaration if a foreigner is stuck in the follow-up? The participation declaration process is part of the integration examination. By completing the participation declaration process, the citizen has completed that part of the integration examination. Therefore, the deadlock in the follow-up path has no impact on the signed declaration of participation. Can the signature be cancelled or can the participation declaration be annulled by a municipality if a foreigner behaves improperly or if he fails to fulfil his obligations? Following the introduction to the Dutch core values and the signing of the declaration, the participation declaration process has been completed. The signature cannot be undone. No explicit rights and obligations are attached to the Statement of Participation, which are enforceable by signing the Declaration. Where there is a breach of one or more core values, as I have just said, the normal legal and regulatory framework applies and will be acted on the regular basis. Is it possible to go back into the participation declaration process? Where the participation declaration path cannot be completed in good time, the time limit may be extended if there is an unacceptable delay, e.g. in case of disease. In the event that the person responsible for entering the labour market has failed to comply with the declaration of participation within the time limit, a fine shall be imposed. We talked about that. It is therefore possible to do longer over the route. I have already addressed the question of core values. I think I have come to the end of my first term, unless I have not yet answered a question from one or more Members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u121	There's more than one member coming in. I call Mrs Prast first and then Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had asked one more question to the Minister, and I am now saying: the Secretary of State, Mr O'Donnell, about the non-visiting of a colleague's marriage, just because the colleague is gay. How does this relate in the eyes of the Minister or the Secretary of State to the core value of equivalence mentioned in the Statement of Participation, and in which it is also explicitly mentioned that discrimination against homosexuals is not accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u123	I've gone into that. Mrs Prast's question was also why this example is being used. I said in my reply that this example is used to get a good conversation with the citizen in question about how in the Netherlands we deal with, in this case, gay marriage. Next, Mrs Prast raises the question of whether or not the way you could go to marriage is a point of attention. I would like to say briefly that this is something that people are free to do. However, the fact that homosexual Dutch people can marry each other is beyond question. How this is then dealt with by other Dutch people, in the sense of being present at that marriage, is up to the Dutch in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u124	If I hear correctly, that is not discrimination in the eyes of the Secretary of State. The choice to go to a marriage based on whether it is a marriage between gays or straights, and to make a difference in it for that reason, is not discrimination in the eyes of the Secretary of State. I just want to say that and agree or deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u125	That should be very clear. I'm not going to every marriage that's closed in my neighborhood. But I myself have also connected gay people in marriage as civil servant. It is therefore quite clear that I really believe that we should not have this kind of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u126	Finally, Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u127	Here's what I was thinking. We have a participation path in which we try to help newcomers understand how they should behave here. It's not about what they think. I wasn't concerned with the question of whether the Secretary of State discriminates against homosexuals. Absolutely not. But I was concerned that in a participation process, as part of the whole, we should discuss how to get out of it if you don't want to go to a gay marriage because it's a gay marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u128	Then, if I may say so, I find that to be illusory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u129	I feel a need to go into that as well. I am free as a Dutch citizen to visit a marriage or not. Suppose a stranger enters this country, enters the process of integration and is required of him or her something that is not required of a Dutch citizen, then I cannot imagine that this would suddenly be called discrimination. That would mean that I would also discriminate if I decided to do or not to do a particular activity on the basis of my beliefs, for example. I think we should be a little careful. We have laws in this country. Everyone who enters this country has to obey those laws, but doesn't have to love or follow all those laws. I can mention a completely different law that may also be sensitive. Let's get this straight. Suppose someone sees that it is possible in our legislation to have abortion. Then you're not gonna ask: what do you think someone should do who's pregnant, but who's not in a good mood? Then you are not well settled when you say: then I think we should follow the law, because here in the Netherlands abortion is possible? Everyone just has to know it all by themselves. I forgot my other question, but I remember it by now. I had asked the Secretary of State whether the evaluation also included the number of declarations of participation signed and in how many cases sanctions were needed. Then the Chamber will have an insight into that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u130	As far as I can see, Mrs Nooren has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u131	I had asked another question about the struggle of citizens versus other people. The explanatory memorandum to the bill stated that the government really struggled with it and that it would have preferred a broader approach. I asked two questions about this. Does the government intend to do something with the broadening of this statement towards the people who become 18-plus? And does the government intend to create support within Europe for this sort of thing to take place in width?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u132	Is it perhaps an idea that you will answer all these questions in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u133	I can answer a number of questions already. Mr Schalk referred to Mrs Prast's point. I think it is very important for clarity and for the Acts that we stress that every Dutchman is free to go to a marriage or not. However, if you come to live new here, it is essential that you are talked about the fact that homosexual people in our country should be able to marry each other if they want to. I think it is very good that this is made negotiable. I think that was also the essence of what was put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u134	Another burning interruption, Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u135	I am a little confused, because we also have a ban on refuse officials. The Secretary of State does not have to answer that, but I would also like to mention that for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u136	May I say, then, that this is a very different discussion: a refuse official is something other than a private person who does not want to go to a gay marriage. Come on! Excuse me, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u137	I think the President has a point of attention here with her apologies. Anyway, I think we've said enough about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u138	I'm getting a color; I can feel it getting warm. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u139	But Mrs. Prast is also quite right. We've talked about this a million times. I come to Mr Schalk's question on evaluation and the number of statements. I will inform the Minister that he will include the number of statements on which there is clarity in the evaluation. As far as Mrs Nooren's question is concerned, namely the widening to 18-plussers, I know that the cabinet thinks that this is a sympathetic idea in itself, but that this is complex in European law. So it's on our wish list, but we can't get that one-two-three. In my view, this has really brought me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u140	Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u141	Madam President. Let me start by saying that I respect the Secretary of State. Although she had not heard everything and although the briefings were still coming in at the time she was discussing, she tried to respond well to all her potential. We have talked extensively about the declaration of participation. I was also questioned about this in the course of an interruption. The Secretary of State also said that four of the five municipalities want that statement to be made. I have also been in contact with municipalities, as well as with those at the VNG who cover this whole problem. As I said in the first term, it is important not only for us as a society that people who come in new know what our values and standards are, but also that it is important for the citizen himself. It is important for the citizen himself because it is, in my opinion, an instrument through which someone, as a first step, gets a piece of the notion "I am aspiring-Dutch." Municipalities often celebrate that too. I think that's good. That's why I don't have a problem with that. The second part of the draft law lays down the coordinating role for social guidance in the municipalities. I said in the first period that I think that is too skinny. The reason why I find that too thin is that we all note here that the law adopted in 2013 is too non-binding. In my opinion, this law also places too much responsibility on the citizen himself. Compare it with you putting me in China tomorrow and saying, ma'am, you need to settle in now. I don't control Chinese. I'll get a bag of money to make sure I can do that in five years. In that situation, I really don't know what to choose. The same goes for the burglar. Madam Secretary of State says that the results of the integration process are indeed far too low. That is why, she says, last year the Minister announced a number of measures. This summer, the Minister comes with a letter. I note that this law also announces a General Measure of Governance which will have to be implemented at the same time as this law. This includes the role of municipalities in participation and integration. We will have an evaluation at the beginning of next year. That's gonna get me lost. Then I think: what does the government really want? What are we going to do to promote the process of successful integration? I have also asked a question about this by way of interruption. I think you should give the municipalities a much more stimulating role in that process. They must also be directed and have the power to intervene. Madam Secretary of State says that the municipalities are covered by participation legislation. No, for these groups they do not. When I come in, I have to wait a while without doing anything until I'm in the process. Before I'm in that process, I'm getting settled in. Also give municipalities the opportunities and means to act as a driving force, so that they can not only ensure that people choose quality courses from the very beginning, but also that people are accompanied to work. This Act of Participation only applies from the moment one is a Dutch citizen, or that one is a citizen. So I would like to make a plea for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u142	I put a question to Mrs Oomen, but perhaps it is directly indirectly a question for the Secretary of State to give a critical reflection. In my opinion, municipalities have more room than Mrs Oomen indicates, including with the Social Support Act and the Participation Act. It seems to be based on the assumption that people should only be allowed to use it after three years. I would also like clarification from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u143	The municipality does not have the perseverance in this integration process. Municipalities don't have the resources either. Citizens are more than learning Dutch and the values and standards of this society. Citizenship also means a person-oriented pathway, in which people can learn a profession, can be re-educated. That cannot be done from the means of participation, if I am right; I see the Secretary of State nodding. That can't happen until people are settled in. Only then will the municipalities be given the means to carry on. That doesn't go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u144	I see Mrs Nooren shaking a heavy no, but she does not want an interruption. Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u145	I'm also getting a little confused, in all honesty. I just thought that we in this Chamber broadly agreed that it is one of the advantages of this bill that the role of the municipalities is being strengthened, and that the integrated approach by municipalities of integration pathways, aimed at education, work, income, labour, is not the biggest flaw in this law. If Mrs Oomen sees a number of gaps in this, I am very curious whether we could get the law on these points better. I share a bit of the confusion that I think Mrs Nooren also had.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u146	What I said in the first term and what I tried to say in this second term is that I appreciate the social role of the municipalities, for which they receive two thousand euros per citizen after the entry into force of this law. But I say that this role of the municipalities is too thin. In my opinion, it should be more integral. It should be the central directional role. This should be discussed with the municipalities to ensure that guidance from that side, from the local authorities, is further developed. The local government can do the same with volunteers. The VNG would like that, too. But I don't know how that goes. So I want more instead of less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u147	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Oomen's words to thank the Secretary of State for being with us, no matter how much fun a UNG Congress is probably, to have this debate. I would also like to thank her for the answers she has given and her willingness to take a number of things with her in her other role to the UNG and thus to return to the UNG. Maybe she'll have another congress day tomorrow; I don't know. A number of points have been clarified; a number of points are still open. Chamberwide, however, seems to live the feeling that we are ready to strengthen the role of the municipalities throughout the integration process. That is very much in line with what my group thinks is important. We think it is important for the Secretary of State to clarify the following. Are the Participation Act and the Wmo in force from the moment of integration and does the Youth Act apply? As far as we can see, that is the case, but it is desirable that this ambiguity be removed for this Chamber. Perhaps it would also be good to look at what the municipalities do from their mandatory role and what good practices are of municipalities that go beyond their traditional legal framework, so that other municipalities can learn from it. I assume that the WMO can also play a role in this, but I am sure the Secretary of State will come back to that. I would like to thank her for the commitment to include in the evaluation the way in which the municipalities play their role. This also applies to the broad extension of the route for newcomers. The Secretary of State will also reflect this in her letters to the VNG or to the municipalities, which the Chamber knows are well read, so that the municipalities do not have to read the intention in the Acts. It would be nice if the evaluation of the law would also be sent to the Second and Upper Chambers. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment given to the WRR report to include thinking and doing in the evaluation of the Integration Act. There are still two points open. The Secretary of State would return in the second term to the voluntary nature, in particular the role of the municipalities in the assessment and the criteria which then apply in relation to the extension of time limits and fines. The second point concerns the intake test. Who will make sure that the citizens do an appropriate integration course? My party hopes that's not the one who's offering the course, but someone who's coming and watching. We look forward to receiving the answers of the Secretary of State in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and her officials for their support. One of our tasks is to look at the feasibility of legislation. The current integration law of 2013 shows that this feasibility is very difficult. The Court of Auditors is very critical of the feasibility in its report. Then we're gonna fix something. Those repairs are already before the Court's report. Next year, we'll have a law review. We're messing around. We screw here a little bit, we screw there a little bit. We now suddenly place some responsibility on the municipalities: you get an instrument, the declaration of participation. Before 2013, they had the instruments, but we took them away from them. We do not now give an important instrument, the purchase of the integration pathways and the assessment of the quality of those integration pathways. Wait till the law review and then look further. It'll be here at the beginning of next year. What we are about to do is not to be included in the legal review, because it will take place later. In short, the fraction of the SP does not fully believe in what is now in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u149	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying and for the kindness with which she has responded to a number of interruptions. There remain a few difficult points in this bill. I feel with a large part of the Chamber that the role of the municipalities is extremely important and that you need to strengthen them. This law guarantees the importance of the role of the municipalities, but in the future it will have to prove whether the butter comes to the fish. Mr Don says: let's wait and see what comes out of the evaluation of a much wider route and then take targeted measures to give the wrecked vehicle of integration really four wheels, a rolling track so to speak. It's sticking. The proposal on the declaration of participation continues to contain such double-mindedness. On the one hand, we find it positive when people sign a statement based on intrinsic motivation and say: I'm part of it, I want to participate and so on. However, it scratches when that intrinsic motivation is undermined because you get a fine if you can't find that intrinsic motivation and aren't ready yet. There's still some kind of contradiction in this law. We see the intention to involve people and make sure they come with us. We don't think the participation path is wrong at all, depending on how you implement it. But if you sanction that with fines that are also imposed by the Empire, then leave the sanction to the local authorities, and there is still a very shaky point that will have to be considered further in my group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. I have to respond to Mr. Lintmeijer's funny metaphor. It reminds a bit of the crippled engine that has to be started with a new auxiliary engine. The participation declaration should then be a new auxiliary engine. Of course, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, who so suddenly had to cover for the Minister, for her response to the questions. She did it with verve. Nevertheless, it remains a somewhat hopeful argument about general concepts and notions and about an inclusive society that should be accessible to all. Reality is often a little more uncomfortable. If we look at the pilot and its evaluation, we can't get out of it. The point of the core values has also become a somewhat colored story, with some fluid concepts suitable for multiple interpretations. It has been said before: is this the route map for someone who needs to integrate to understand our society? It has the charm of simplicity, but it is a list that is open to discussion and therefore with core values that are somewhat ideologically coloured, especially solidarity. As the Minister said earlier, it is clear that the value added is also limited and that, to the extent that you can speak of profit, the profit is, in our view, a repetition which is unnecessary. He said there's nothing wrong with that. That indicates the appreciation it should have. I said earlier that the proposal before us is not a genuinely fundamental reflection. It does not go beyond a piece of unfocused symbolism. There is no clear problem analysis. We don't have an evaluation yet. I call it the idylle of the rule-guided behavior that has prevailed here. It's actually just some kind of hollow duty argument for a stalled integration policy. What about an explanation? It may sound a bit bathinating, but I do not think it has any more value than a veteran's certificate for adults. I see Mr. Don showing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u151	You'll have to watch your time, Mr. Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u152	Is this gonna go away? Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u153	No, I always stop the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u154	Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u155	I have a question for Mr Kok. I have, of course, read the Acts of the other side and I have seen the results of the votes on the other side. Am I to understand that you are not showing solidarity with the other side of the House, with your House of Representatives? The concept of solidarity is a little difficult for you anyway, but I will use it in this context. Is solidarity with the other side lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u156	I always have sufficient solidarity with the other side and I look very closely at what they are saying. I always like to read it. But as you know, the First Chamber always makes its own considerations and so it should be. We do that with a critical look. Well, at least I've got that pretension. You've also heard how I feel about it. We will have to consider pluses and minuses in the next week. In the first instance, I have brought forward the necessary minuses. Perhaps in the next week we can discover some pluses. I don't think it's a story yet. I don't know if that's the answer you want to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u157	I thank Mr Kok for his reply. It is clear that you still have a trade-off to make. I do appreciate you using the word "solidarity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u158	I'm gonna keep going, Mr. Chairman. The new role of the municipalities seems to be an improvement. But, yes, the outcome is not really clear. Nor is it a guarantee that it will get better. In addition, the policy freedom of municipalities is enormous: local coordination with the help of these and all kinds of civil society organisations is unprecedented. I have just been informed by the Secretary of State that not only the €2,370 may be used, which is beautifully natural, but it is also possible to draw on the participation budget, from which...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u159	Let me remind you of your time. You are now one minute and fourteen seconds over the given time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u160	I gave up three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u161	I set that one up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u162	Oh, I'm gonna get over it. Excuse me. I'll come to a conclusion soon. I had stuck to drawing on the participation budget, from which so many people already have to draw. There is a danger that there will be an enormous displacement. The measures of the end of 2016 were taken on the basis of signals from practice. I think that is a very lean basis, I must say. It has already been said that the AMvB and the evaluation have yet to come; I think it is a rather messy presentation of a government that does not really know it. If I look at the participation declaration itself, I have had to make an effort to find this thing, and I can see under the heading "solidarity' that it has an inviting character: people have the right to a safer environment, decent housing, fair working conditions, minimum wage in employment, good education and good medical care. I'd think, even if it wasn't mandatory, I'd like to sign it. The view is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u163	You are 2 minutes and 33 seconds past the specified time. I'm just gonna say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u164	Mr. Chairman. I learned something this afternoon, among other things, that I apparently understand "discrimination" differently from others. I thought that discrimination also applied to an individual towards other people, and it seems to me that this is always about institutions and the government. The Secretary of State said I'm not much of an excuse. I'm not surprised. Will it try to get excuses as a recommended strategy out of the participation process? I am not convinced this afternoon by the Secretary of State that the great hesitations I had in this bill were wrong. I will therefore not ask my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u165	Mr. Chairman. Mr Don just mentioned the way in which we could enter this debate: he said some were cheerful. Perhaps I have taken up this debate with a good heart, because I have looked at the participation statement in a slightly different way from some others, namely as a mild instrument, in which you learn about the values and standards, in which you say you respect them and that you want to actively contribute, and you can expect help from fellow citizens. Everyone has room to be themselves, of course within the framework of the law. This afternoon we also talked about volunteering. There is, after all, some kind of sanction. It was a good thing that the Secretary of State would like to stress that there are only fines if there is culpable action. Victims? You're not coming to Holland for nothing. I think people who come to the Netherlands would like to come here as well. Then you'll be asked to sign a participation statement. Like that's some kind of coercive measure. No, it's just part of your integration exam. Because volunteering must not lead to non-committality. That is why the SGP group can support this first phase of the integration process, completed with the signing of a participation declaration, with the municipalities having an important role to play. Then I'm gonna call it "reciprocity" one more time. Of course, I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u166	Can the Secretary of State answer directly? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their second-term contribution. I have to say that this is really a debate that is huge about how you make sure that we, as the Netherlands and the Dutch, let everyone participate, including the newcomers. What tools do you need for that? Mrs Oomen and Mr Schalk said a few words about this. Mr Schalk saw the declaration of participation as a mild instrument. You can also see that municipalities use this statement as such and are therefore pleased with it. Because you have an instrument in your hands that can help you get in touch with people and walk down some sort of path in it. I believe that this instrument can be used to this end. I would like to stress once again that these sanctions are only to be dealt with if there is genuinely culpable behaviour. Municipalities will always look with the man or woman in question at how that path will continue throughout the integration process. I am very keen to say that again. Mrs Oomen quite rightly asked about the role of the municipalities in the broad sense of the word. What can they do and what can't? Almost the entire cabinet has spoken with the municipalities, in the context of the status holders. Because last year it was very intensely considered how municipalities can deal with all those who came to the Netherlands in 2015 and who of course need everything to be able to live. The VNG has been very intensively consulted on what municipalities need to do well. All these new people must not just be given a roof over their heads, they must be accompanied on all fronts. It is right that Mrs Nooren referred to the Social Support Act. That's where the concern comes in at all: the ggz, the Wlz and so on. In addition, you have to try to get people to master the language. I said in my first term, "I understand that that may lead to misunderstandings "that you see in a trajectory to work that the language is offered through the municipalities and through the employer in question. I have seen a wonderful example of this in Limburg where an entrepreneur employed a large number of status holders. On the workplace, he teaches those people how to use the language in that particular segment of the labour market. That's like a train. That kind of business can already be done very well by municipalities. I mentioned the P budget because municipalities can supervise status holders. It really is about the wide range of resources that municipalities can use. Municipalities have a lot of freedom of policy. I agree with Mrs Oomen that the cabinet, whether it is the outgoing cabinet or a new cabinet, should review each time whether municipalities have sufficient instruments to provide these new people with home, fireplace, work and so on. If not, what's to be added?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u168	The Secretary of State talks about status holders, but it starts before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u169	People are of course first in the centers, where they are taken care of. As soon as someone is placed in a municipality from such a centre, as soon as a municipality gets someone within its borders, the municipality can work with this man, this woman or this family. For example, you can also use the special assistance for this. We've seen that, too. Many articles have been devoted to this; of course I have seen that. Municipalities sometimes also help with the furnishing of a house. In short, the municipality can really do a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u170	I have a quick question. Secretary of State, you mean the dual routes? The example of the entrepreneur who teaches status holders in Dutch on the work floor is the dual pathways?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u171	What exactly do you mean by dual trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u172	I'm trying to extract it from my memory, from the distant past. By a dual trajectory, I mean that you combine two things: it leads people to work and the integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u173	It can be done in many different ways. The example I just gave was from an entrepreneur in motorcycles. This entrepreneur has offered the people in question ordinary contracts and ensures that these people get one part of the day in the week Dutch in a way that is related to engines, if I may express myself like this. If that's dual, it's dual. In addition, these people also receive Dutch lessons in a different way. So you can see that these people, because they are at work, are with colleagues and therefore very often hear and use Dutch, have mastered Dutch faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u174	I am sure this will work, Secretary of State, but this was already a focus in the current law of integration: this remained subordinate. I am pleased that you are setting this example and saying that we need to do more in the future, but it is a point of attention, which the Court of Auditors has pointed out, for example: the dual paths were not sufficiently exploited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u175	Look, we've got him in the right place, I'll tell you what. Very good. So it may be clear that municipalities can really do a lot now. Mr Prast, Mr Kok and Mr Don have specifically said that they do not see the added value of this law. I would like to say to them once again that the added value of this law lies, among other things, in the provision of social guidance. You allow municipalities to offer this very wide range and also to use the resources for that purpose. The municipalities themselves have said that they find the instrument of the participation declaration as such a good tool for making use of people. In short, I must say that I would like to try one more time to help these Members of Parliament, under the motto 'not shot is always wrong'. Mrs Nooren asked me to send the evaluation to the First Chamber as well. I'd say, "Of course." She also asked for the intake test. I have an answer to that question. She asked: how do we know that the intake test is of good quality? The monitoring of the quality of teaching, which is now under way, will also examine which key is being used. This is a test by Bureau ICE I know that agency is not a test that is part of the teaching method used. The use of an inappropriate method means that the label "Blik op Werk" is not awarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u176	From that I conclude that not the municipality, but the person who provides the integration test, uses the intake test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u177	Mr. Chairman, you know what? I'll let the Chamber know in writing exactly how this works. That happens before the votes, because Mrs Nooren is entitled to do so. Mr Don asked about the feasibility of the legislation. We've already talked about that. The SP Group would rather wait for the evaluation, but I would like to say to Mr Don that both instruments in the law matter very much to municipalities. I would almost say: would you please think about this again for next Tuesday? Mr Lintmeijer advocated strengthening the role of municipalities. I have indicated that I agree with that. I also think that I have answered Mr Lintmeijer's questions. Mr Kok said that inclusive society is unbearable. That's true on parts. We'll do everything we can to clean up walls, if you don't mind my saying so. Mr Kok said that the core values are open to multiple interpretations. I don't feel that way. Everyone has to decide that for themselves, but for me these are very important core values, including in my own life. I don't have that many interpretations, if you don't mind my saying so. Mrs Prast has put her point on discrimination very nicely, but I do not think there is any light at all between our approaches and that we are taking exactly the same approach here. I would like to put the question back to you as to whether your excuses for the sake of good are actually a phenomenon that should actually be included in a process of participation. I'd like to go back with that. Finally, I come to Mr Schalk. In fact, I have already provided his input with a response, because this is then the voice of this debate. Indeed, the declaration of participation is a mild instrument that is of great importance to the people involved, that is to say the citizens themselves; that is also what Mrs Oomen said. Fines are really only dealt with if there is culpable action. Mr President, I was delighted to have this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u178	You have already been thanked by Members of Parliament for being able to come here so quickly to replace the Minister, who has other, also important, obligations. We thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-eerstekamer-4.u179	I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
