ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on agricultural pesticides harmful to bees. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand as the first speaker on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. About 20 years ago, new forms of pesticides were introduced: systemic agents. That means you inject it into the soil, or you dip the seeds in it, and then the whole plant that grows out of it is full of that poison. Independent scientists have warned of the dangers of this and we saw them at some point. Worldwide, the bee population has deteriorated sharply since the introduction of those systemic agents. As the warnings also penetrated into the Chamber, it adopted in 2013 a motion calling on the Cabinet to use a complete European moratorium on the use of these means: neonicotinoids and fipronil. And when it turned out that this moratorium was not going to be sufficiently large, this Chamber said that at least we had to take national measures, i.e. a national moratorium. The European moratorium was introduced, but it was very limited. And now that new studies have been carried out over time, the European Commission has concluded that this moratorium should, in any case, remain and be developed. The Cabinet supports that. That is good news in itself, but it is running after the facts, that is what we want to say. And all this based on newly published studies in Science, which led us to request this debate in July. There are new re-evaluations of EFSA. That's all very well. On 19 September, the task force for these systemic pesticides also presented its second edition, an evaluation of 500 studies since 2014. The conclusion, which is therefore very recent, does not really leave any room for the use of these substances. That brings me to the first question to the cabinet. It is good that the European Commission's line is supported, but does the Cabinet share the view of the Animal Party that the studies of that task force give rise to an argument for a complete moratorium? That would also be in line with a motion of this Chamber that was previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mrs Ouwehand herself knows, I think, that bee health is a combination of factors. The last investigation that took place gave rise to a request for a debate. Do you know the results of that well? I don't know how you interpret it, but I have a very different interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yeah, that happens more often, that the Party for Animals and the CDA are just looking at something else in scientific studies. The Animal Party tends to find independent scientific assessments of greater importance than conclusions based on industry studies that we have not been allowed to assess. That's a first difference. The second is that I have the studies, as published in Science, high up. Those Task Force on Systemic Pesticides also include industry studies. In total, they are 500 studies. The whole evaluation is not yet public, but the conclusions have already come to us. They're clear enough. There must be a complete moratorium on the use of neonicotinoids and fipronil, because it poses unacceptable dangers to the quality of our water, to biodiversity, to bees, to the safety of our food, and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	I also attach great importance to scientific research, but this research did not really show any very remarkable results. On the contrary. There were 258 measurement points; 238 had no effect, 9 had negative effect and 7 had a positive effect. With you now sounds very selective indignation, but the positive effects are not mentioned. There was hardly any effect during this study, so I am very surprised that you are using this research to argue for a debate now and for total abolition of the neonicotinoids. In the course of the debate, I will explain why I am saying this, but you will know this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	The precautionary principle is, of course, important. That is why we are not asking for a moratorium on neonics for the first time, but we have done so before. Secondly, it seems a bit like the CDA is using the same trick as in the climate debate: the consensus based on many different studies and evaluations is questioned by the CDA because according to one scientist or one study there would not be such a sharp effect. We think that's a very crazy way of dealing with science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	I see that you wish to interrupt, Mr von Martels, but I will not allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. My question to the cabinet is therefore whether, on the basis of the evaluation of the task force, it is also prepared to take further steps and not just support the line of the European Commission, but also call for a complete ban. There is a second question; that is why we had invited the Secretary of State of I and M, but unfortunately it has not been sent. I hope the Minister can answer this question. The Cabinet has announced that it will prepare a legislative amendment to allow it to take national restrictive measures for authorized toxins. This is about the sale of Roundup to private individuals. At present there is no legal basis for this. The cabinet is working on a legislative amendment to make that possible. Can the cabinet promise that it will embrace the change of law that will create room for a national moratorium on neonicotinoids, should the European moratorium not occur in the coming period? This room has already asked for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. With bees, you can't be too careful. Bees are a crucial part of our ecosystem. That is why I am pleased that we are discussing this issue here today. EFSA concludes that there is a high risk or that a risk when using three neonicotinoids cannot be excluded. D66 supports EFSA's findings and agrees with the Minister that Europe should take action to limit the use of these resources. However, there is a discussion on the review framework that has been used. D66 believes that this discussion should be followed up as soon as possible. After all, a wide-ranging review framework is essential for responsible decision-making and this broad consensus is lacking at the moment. Once this renewed, widely supported review framework has been established, D66 advocates the review of the alternative active substances. As the findings of EFSA also show, alternatives do not necessarily have a lower risk profile. In addition, you must note that there was a gap in the original review framework. In its assessment of various other scientific publications, Ctgb points to this gap, the routes of exposure via insects. This can, for example, reduce the effectiveness of natural control via sneak wasps. Useful insects are affected, making pests less manageable. And that leads to the use of more chemicals. The Ctgb also states that it is a known fact that neonicotinoids are persistent in the soil. D66 can follow that the Ctgb sees a danger here, but no risk. However, does the fact that such authorised resources are safe for humans, animals and the environment, according to the current state of knowledge, also mean that they are good for soil, good for biodiversity, good for our public health? According to a study in Science, In almost 25 years, 80% of insects disappeared from nature reserves close to agricultural cultural land. A random connection? A statistical connection? We don't know. Mr. Chairman. D66 supports EFSA's opinion on limiting the use of these substances. D66 supports the Minister and calls for the discussion on the review framework to be resolved as soon as possible. D66 considers it wise that alternative substances should also be assessed. That even makes sense to us. Finally, in addition to the bees, we are concerned about other gaps in the testing framework, in particular the spread via insects and soil. Just because pesticides are safe doesn't mean they're good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. Bees, butterflies, dragonflies and beetles are the basis of our food chain, in the animal world and ultimately in the human world. But these insects are under pressure and their numbers are slowly decreasing. That's what researchers have been observing for years. We're not talking about a few percent, but about decreases between 35% and 45% in suits for 40 years. That's such a sharp drop that it can also be seen simply as you drive your car across the highway. A few decades ago, you needed a wiper to clean the windshield. You don't have to do that in the Netherlands anymore. Mr. Chairman. There are many reasons for the decline of species. One of these is the use of neonicotinoids, agricultural poison that is easy for the farmer, but very bad for our ecosystem and especially for bees. The reason for this debate was extensive studies in Science, which again demonstrated that these insecticides contribute to the decline of bees species. The European Commission recognises it. EFSA, the European Supervisory Authority, too. That is why there are now additional measures at European level. Mr. Chairman. We must not mess with the basis of our ecosystems. So I say that we should at least support the European Commission's proposals. Is the Minister planning to do the same? I assume so, given his expressions so far, and his predecessor's. This means extending the current restrictions to cover only the use of the funds in a closed greenhouse. Treated seed may only be sown in a greenhouse. The life cycle of a plant is limited to the greenhouse. There is a great deal to be done in order to actually give hands and feet to the cleaning obligation in the greenhouse. That duty will take place from 1 January 2018. As far as we are concerned, this could have been done much earlier. Is everything now ready so that it is really effective as of 1 January 2018? Is it therefore strictly enforced? Mr. Chairman. Companies that want to do it collectively have a delay until 2021. I would like to ask the Minister what this delay is really for. To be told from the sector, there are already forms of collective solutions, such as simply putting the cleaners in a truck and driving by where and when it is necessary. Is that exception necessary until 2021 at all? Can't that be shorter? And what is the Minister doing to ensure that, at least as soon as possible, collective provisions are made available and not used as an excuse instead of a postponement? Mr President, I shall conclude. At least my group wants the Minister to support the European Commission's proposal during the upcoming SCOPAFF. That's what I'm assuming. My group believes that we must quickly put an end to the use of neonicotinoids as a whole. They're bad for our biodiversity. Let us take an example of countries that are perhaps even more ambitious in this area than the Netherlands. Let us be at the forefront of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. Neo-nico-tioeoids. What are we doing to ourselves, Mr President? And I mean not only linguistically, but also when it comes to our ecosystems. Mrs. Lodders thought he was saying it wrong. But that was, of course, conscious. Nevertheless, I will say neonics, because that makes it easier. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is about to argue for reason instead of emotion in the discussion about neonics. At least, I read on the Farm website last night that the CDA is going to do that here, so that's what I'm assuming. I should like to express my strong support for this, because let us look at this case with reason and reason. We have a problem with the decreasing number of bees, which is not only bad for ecosystems in general, but also for part of our food production. And of course, we can eat potatoes and grain until we drop down, but I myself also attach to a piece of fruit from time to time. We have a proven connection between beekeeping and neonics. Yes, other factors may also play a role, but the link has been demonstrated. We have the European Commission and EFSA, which say that there is a high risk here. So let's look at it rationally and say: we have a reason for great concern and we have to act. I'm glad I could say I wasn't dissatisfied with the cabinet's letter on this. In several respects, it is very unfortunate that Mr Van Dam left early, because I would have liked to have said something kind about him in this Chamber. I have not been allowed to do so, but I would nevertheless like to join the previous speakers who would like the cabinet to continue this line. Finally, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that when it comes to the debate on satsumas, our side of the Chamber has often been struck in the face. We have an EFSA opinion. That seems to me to be an excellent thing in this debate. We have that EFSA opinion and let us follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Madam President. This is a very important debate. It's about bees, about pollinators. They're at the beginning of our food cycle. Most people know bees from honey. At home I have a book with more than a thousand pages about the medicinal effect of honey, the antibiotic effect, the pre- and probiotic effect. The sputum is medical. The poison is even used in certain rheumatic patients. Bees are wonderful creatures of nature and according to some parties creatures of our dear Lord. We have always said that if pesticides pose a risk to animal health, to public health, to bees, bumblebees or other pollinators, it is then, as far as we are concerned, end of practice. End of exercise! Don't wait for the EU. It's all bullshit. We have the best experts on board here, in the Netherlands. If necessary, an all-in-all-in-all-in-all-the-word-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just stop. Even if you're in doubt, cut it out. We can't live without it. I am very grateful that I once had the opportunity to work with Mrs Lutz Jacobi of the PvdA, who unfortunately is no longer in the Chamber, for the bees. That is why there are now bees in many government buildings and also in beer breweries and bank buildings where the bees do not suffer from radiation, pesticides or certain types of mite that are deadly to them. That has become one great success. The bees are hot. They're important. They're indispensable. I once saw a video on an American transmitter about what happens when the bees die out. They showed a grocery store in there before and after, and that's just frightening. Those animals are just indispensable. Again, they're at the beginning of our food cycle. Since I am also a spokesman in the AO on aviation that is currently being held, I am running up and down all the time. So when someone speaks for me if the minister doesn't want to deal with it, I'm prepared to sign any motions. I can see Mrs. Ouwehand nodding. So if good motions are tabled, I would like to sign them, as I do not know whether I can be present for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	Even if you haven't seen those motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	Well, I know the minister a little bit. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	There is already an approved motion from the Chamber for a full European moratorium, and I simply assume that the Minister knows him very well and therefore we do not have to table a new motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	That's right. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that too, in the sense of the matter. We also supported that motion. Mrs. Ouwehand nods in the affirmative. We supported them and then it may not be necessary. I know the Minister as someone who, as I always say, I mean a little bit of a joke, has the flexibility of a sea container. It's pretty tight. He's not easy to convince or get warm for anything. He doesn't quickly deviate from his policy. I hope he does now. I see him smiling nicely. This is at least one of his last days as Minister for Economic Affairs, because I hope he will be able to be there for a very long time. Then I hope we can get him on our side with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u21	He smiles nicely, but that's how he always looks, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u22	I know him a little tighter, Madam President. Sometimes he does indeed have the dolphin smile and that is usually a good omen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr President. This debate is followed by a study in which the aardhommel, the red brickbee and the tamme honeybee played a leading role. The secondary case is rightly the main issue today. However, I am somewhat reluctant to be here because the subject we are discussing is likely to offer a false solution. However, despite my objections, the debate is still taking place, all thanks to a number of overzealous political workers. Hopefully it won't blow up too much pollen. The flourishing perspective that we need to focus on is the question: how are we going to move towards an emission-free and residual-free future, and what is needed for that? The ambition must therefore be how we can apply available knowledge and the development of new knowledge in an integral way within systems. This means investing in the latest cultivation techniques, without using pesticides. In the near future, the CDA will focus on public health and the protection of the environment. Safety for humans and the environment is guaranteed by independent authorities with scientists assessing whether substances and substances should be authorised and, if so, under what conditions. If, in the opinion of these authorities, a product presents a risk, they will severely restrict or prohibit the use of the product. For the CDA, the opinions of the independent EFSA and Ctgb scientists are leading. With new information, neonicotinoids for the protection of bees are prohibited for certain uses. The CDA fully supports that. I trust and trust that the Ctgb and EFSA will study and act on the basis of recent publications in Science very well. My question to the Minister is whether the underlying investigation of these studies was already known in the current European assessment of neonicotinoids. Finally, I quote Randy Oliver, the environmentalist, beekeeper and biologist who has contributed a lot to the unravelling of misconceptions about neonicotinoids: "When emotion wins from science, what should farmers and producers of pesticides do? It takes millions of dollars to put a new product on the market. The same applies to the new generation of pesticides and low-risk insecticides. Why should industry invest in this if all its efforts can go up in smoke because of a public campaign that responds to irrational fears?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u25	Could the CDA colleague possibly support me? I have been asking here for a long time to move on to non-chemical control. Then the word "pesticides" is no longer good. Let's call it natural pesticides. Is my colleague from the CDA prepared to consider that? I might also want to do something with it in the budget. Maybe we can work together, because it takes money. Without money, you can't develop something like that. It exists, it is often cheaper and it is animal-friendly and better for animal and public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u26	Maybe we can go a long way together. I've already spoken of an emmissionless and residual-free future. I am entirely in favour of this, but it is about what time we can achieve it. What objectives do we have and what do we put on the horizon? In that sense, we can hang out together, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u27	The latter sounds to me as D66'er of course as music in the ears: a really healthy soil gives a healthy crop. If it's okay, you don't need pesticides. At least that would be better. My question concerns the following. We follow science here. You can see that all the parties who already called in 2009 that there was something wrong with the neonicotinoids, eventually got right. That wasn't science, but it was the review framework. That review framework had a gap. Do you agree with me that it is possible that, although the current review framework, supplemented by bees, is not sufficiently clear in terms of insects and soil? A number of studies give rise to this. Shouldn't we do something about it that we don't know enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u28	Are you referring to bee guidance, that research, that admission criterion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yes. The original admission schedule has been supplemented with bees, because there was something going on with the bees. At the same time, we see that something is going on with our soil and insects. It is highly plausible that a number of studies indicate that this is also related to these neonicotinoids. In my opinion, we should ask science as soon as possible to get to work on the review framework so that this possible gap is filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u30	That's a question you're asking. I think it is also a question for the Minister how he looks at it. I know that bee guidance is still an incomplete means of finding a good solution, so there are still gaps. That needs to be resolved first, so that it could be more guiding in the future. On that basis, we can make decisions again. In that sense, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. For a few years now, on the initiative of Mr Graus, we have been accompanied here in the garden by a true bee people. The state of affairs has therefore been the subject of several debates. I understand that, because bee mortality has increased in recent years. What I do not understand, however, is that there is a direct reference to agriculture and the use of plant protection products as the biggest culprit of bee mortality. No bees, no pollinators, and farmers understand that very well. If we look closely at the causes of bee mortality, we can see that there are several factors behind this. If bee populations suffer from varroasis, that is a serious problem. But the amount of food for the bee and the hygiene of the bee also affects the condition of the bee. There is therefore no clear cause to be identified as an absolute cause of bee mortality. It is therefore too easy to ban all kinds of plant protection products now. That is not wise either, because plant protection products are needed to protect plants, our food, against diseases, pests and weeds. Without these resources, pests will not be adequately combated, harvests will be lost and food supplies will be put at risk. The VVD considers it important that the authorisation and use of plant protection products be as safe as possible. Public health must not be compromised. Of course, we also want to minimise the negative impact on nature, animals and the environment. Danger and risk are sometimes confused. The active substance of plant protection products, like many cleaning products, can be a hazard to bees or to human and animal health. But if you set conditions in the conditions of use so that the risk of human or animal contact with these substances is minimal, there is less or no risk and therefore there is no problem. Businesses take the initiative. Coat seed, where the plant protection product no longer needs to be administered on a full field but very specific to the seed of the plant, is a good example. In addition, we also see very interesting developments in agriculture. Take the precision agriculture and the drift reducing techniques. Every year important steps are taken in this regard. The VVD is keen to see that the government allows for developments in the field of precision agriculture, where regulation should not get in the way, with only one goal: to succeed in a responsible way with an eye for people, nature and the environment, so that we can consume our beautiful Dutch products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u33	The VVD points to usage instructions. You do a risk analysis and you say, okay, if the drug is used this way, then maybe it can be safe. But that's a paper reality. We have seen in practice that, for example, imidacloprid, one of those dangerous neonics, led to standard crossings in surface water from 1,000 to 4,000 times. If you want to avoid that, if you are steering to allow maximum by using usage regulations, you would have to rig up a huge monitoring device, which the VVD is not for either. Doesn't that lead you to the conclusion that, from that precautionary principle, you need to be a little more careful about allowing all kinds of resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u34	There have, of course, been a lot of developments in recent years. 10, 20 or 30 years ago, when plant protection products were introduced, there were very different conditions of use. At that time, there was also a lack of knowledge about its consequences. So many steps have been taken in recent years. It's just going four steps too far to constantly point to farmers and gardeners as if they're all breaking the rules of use. That is not the case. That is where steps have been taken, especially when it comes to the exceedances of standards that Mrs Ouwehand is talking about. Farmers who do that knowingly, you have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mrs. Lodders doesn't answer my question. I said that working with permissions and putting in sharp usage rules is quite a paper reality. I also hear the VVD complain about this, because it is thick piles of paper, where the farmers have to think: "Okay, this medicine can't be when it rains, but when it blows, no wait, not when it blows, when the sun shines, when the moon is high in the sky..." That's quite a bureaucracy. In order to maintain it properly, you also need a whole device. And for those things, the VVD isn't at all. I would therefore like the VVD to take this into account in its own view of the question of when to allow pesticides, and in any case, and whether, in practice, this also ensures the protection that Mrs Lodder says, is of importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u36	The VVD believes that it is not a paper reality. Again, if a farmer or a gardener uses plant protection products, he does not do so to please the VVD or anyone else; then he does so to protect the crops from pests, diseases and weeds. Those resources are so expensive. So they want to use as little resources as possible. I think farmers are very well aware of the conditions of use. If they are able to do so by less means, they will do so only for the sake of the wallet. The rules of use are therefore not a paper reality in this sense. Of course, there must be rules on the label, on the bottle of chlorine, on the bottle of cleaning vinegar and on the plant protection products. Farmers and gardeners have to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u37	I would like to ask Mrs Lodder whether she agrees with me that despite the rules of use and I know what has been going on for many years, for example, in the case of imidacloprid in surface water. They were detected by the Vewin and the waterboards. Doesn't that mean that Mrs Lodder's farmers' circular reasoning doesn't do that, because they simply don't understand their own interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u38	No, I don't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Lodders. No, I mean Mr Grashoff, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u40	I am not satisfied with this answer. I'd like a statement of reasons. Mrs. Lodders understands that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u41	Then I'm gonna repeat myself. Of course, I'd be happy to do that. When we look at the use of plant protection products, we have to go back to 20 to 30 years ago. We have also had many debates on this subject. When it is clear that there are exceedances of standards, then you have to get to work on that. Targeted actions and measures have also been put in place. That's what's being dealt with. If that doesn't happen, you have to act as a supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u43	It's a nice theoretical story, but you're going to keep going around it wonderfully. Does the VVD simply support the government's policy, for example with regard to the closed greenhouse and the 99% purification that has now been proposed? And does the VVD also support the intention to support the European Commission in the further measures, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u44	Not that last one. Why not? That's another debate. I think we should have that debate when it is on the table. Next Wednesday, I'm gonna say out of my mind, we have an AO on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I will also make a very specific comment on this point. There is still a great deal of discussion about the review framework, which the EFSA, the European Authority, is testing. You're gonna have to have a mutually agreed review framework before you can make a trade-off to yes or to no. But I will certainly come back to that next week, because then it will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u45	I think that's a good idea. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Chairman. The neonicotinoids. Maybe I can start by quoting Mr Futselaar. He says we should look at this case with reason and reason. I agree. It's really necessary to do that. The pollination is, of course, crucial. It's a crucial part of the whole chain. If there's anything going on with that, it's gonna need our greatest attention. It's about bees, but it's also about butterflies and hoverflies. The most pregnant was this when there were reports that the number of honeybee populations being kept was rapidly decreasing and that this was caused by those neonicotinoids. In the meantime, we have come to the point where at first 20%, sometimes 30% of these bee populations did not survive the winter, which has now been reduced to 14%. Research has shown that, as Mrs Lodder says, this was caused by the varroasis, i.e. the Varroa destructor, and not by the neonicotinoids. That varroa mite is the reason those bee people didn't keep it in the winter and died. I think it's good to establish that. That is one of the reasons, the ratio that Mr Futselaar, I think, is also referring to. I'm not gonna talk the problem out of it. It's not just about the honey bees. There are 360 species of bees. There are a lot of butterflies and lots of hoverflies and variants of them, as Mr De Groot said, which are relevant and which we should also look at. A number of years ago, in 2012, an analysis, there was a review of EFSA, which produced restrictive measures, in particular that you should no longer treat those crops whose flowers are attractive to bees with those neonicotinoids we are talking about. It's been applied. A review was subsequently carried out by EFSA in 2015, where the European Commission has now drawn a first conclusion that neonicotinoids should only be used in greenhouses. The Netherlands supports the European Commission's approach, but has made an important comment. This has also led to no definitive conclusion being reached by the European Commission. It's not scheduled for October either. Mrs Lodders referred to a consultation that will take place shortly. Perhaps she also thought that this would be planned before the beginning of October in order to draw conclusions on this. That is not the case. That'll be later. That is, I think, because what the Netherlands is putting forward is very relevant. Look, those neonicotinoids are used for a certain purpose, as Mrs. Lodders also said. That's what we're trying to do. The NVWA has said that it has a major impact on the cultivation of potatoes, sugar and fodder beet, grass seeds, bulb and flower tuber crops if these substances are no longer to be used. That is a large part of the cultivation we have in the Netherlands. And "great impact" is jargon for the remaining resources and possibilities, the plagues that occur, that cannot be adequately controlled, or that resistance to them is already emerging in the short term. So it's a lot of important crops. We can ban something, but it has a big impact. What comes in its place is then, or is not appropriate, or is rapidly developing resistance to it. So that is a worrying situation. That is why we have told the European Commission that it is very good to see exactly what the risks are for high-quality coating and seeding techniques. If you use the coating of seeds for crops whose flowers are not interesting for bees, butterflies and hoverflies, you have to look at them differently than crops where they are. It is also possible to spray orchards or blueberries, whatever happens, in such a way that you can drastically reduce the risks outside the flowering season, in a certain way and under certain conditions. It is necessary to weigh the remaining risks against the risks of alternative means. But the risks of these alternative means are not clear to me at the moment. That should be investigated, so that if you ban something, you know what the consequence is for cultivation and for the alternative products that are going to be used. Don't they have bigger disadvantages? We have made these comments to the European Commission. We also said that the review framework should be established. A number of spokesmen also spoke about this, particularly Mr De Groot. At present EFSA has worked under an undefined review framework. I think they had no choice at the moment either, because the review framework was not there. They found something important, so they have to do it as best they can. If we want to take far-reaching measures now, it is important to have a set review framework and to have it laid down in a European guideline. We have put this forward to the European Commission. We went to the European Commission with these comments. The European Commission can find out more about this and provide information and views on it. We will study them with great interest and then be able to take a final position on them. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand asked about the amendment of the law that is at issue. It asked whether the legislative amendment it was referring to would also allow national restrictive measures to be taken to prohibit sales to private individuals. She also mentioned another means, which is currently under discussion. It's not possible to do that. I do not think it is desirable to do so either. I think it is very important that we have a harmonised plant protection policy across Europe. This means that we in Europe are dealing with this in the same way and that we have a European approach with European directives and guidelines, and a regulation as necessary. In this way, Europe will provide tools for the means approved by Europe as regards the active substance. We can then decide on the authorisation and use of a plant protection product on the basis of that active substance. I think that system is good and we should continue to use it. I am not in favour of the Netherlands making exceptions to this and following its own line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u47	It is no secret that the cabinet is not in favour of this. That is why the Chamber has said that a motion must be tabled. It was adopted by a majority. This House is asking for a national moratorium on neonicotinoids if European restrictions are insufficient; and that is what we thought. My question was about the following. This Chamber has adopted a similar motion on the sale of Roundup to private individuals. Then the Secretary of State of I and M, after having first tried other measures, promised the Chamber: I am initiating a legislative amendment to regulate the legal basis for this, because at the moment I cannot implement it. My question was: will this change of law also allow for, for example, the implementation of the passed motion on a national ban on neonicotinoids? I don't care if you really want to. However, as I understand the Secretary of State, the purpose of this amendment is to create that possibility in any case in our national legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u48	I have already said that I think it is important to stick to European plant protection policy and not to make an exception in the Netherlands. As far as the other point is concerned, I have also indicated that I believe that we should not set our own course here. This means that during this debate I do not want to anticipate the debate on pomace and the means that comes out of it, Roundup. I know there's a discussion going on about that. It is important, however, that we discuss this on occasion. I would like to be willing to do that, but I have now been called to the Chamber to talk about the neonicotinoids and I would like to talk about glyphosates and Roundup on another occasion. I don't want to get ahead of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u49	I get that. It is also just about the point that the Dutch legislation is apparently not good enough at the moment to actually regulate Roundup's sales ban, for example, for example. That is why I would have liked to have seen the Secretary of State of I and M in this debate for that question. Once again, I understand that the cabinet is not in favour of it, but this Chamber has made a statement and we would like to clarify the legal possibility of it. Perhaps the Minister could ask the Secretary of State for I and M if she could give the Chamber some clarity as to what the legislative amendment she is committed to will be looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u50	If the House needs information, as Mrs Ouwehand now puts it, I am happy to provide it. I'll see if I do or if I and M's colleagues do. I shall see how I can meet Mrs Ouwehand and thus the Chamber on that point. With regard to the motion that she has just spoken about, the following. Motions are of course of the utmost importance to the cabinet, but it is also important what European policy is about, what European regulations are about, what the scientific analyses are about and what the effects are for the Netherlands in terms of crops that can or cannot be grown. It is also important what will then be used as an alternative and what the risks will be. Only on the basis of motions governing, seems attractive, but that is not always possible for the cabinet. That is why we also involve all the other information I have just mentioned before we establish what we can do responsibly as a cabinet. This is the question put by Mrs Ouwehand. Mrs Ouwehand also asked whether there was any opinion on the study that was being discussed. Information is becoming available all the time. For EFSA, for us, for the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products, and for everyone, if scientific research material becomes available, you will be happy to use it when defining your policy. We do, too. I have not yet seen the research on which Mrs Ouwehand refers, but as soon as that is the case, I will also present it to the College and ask for an opinion on it again. I am convinced that EFSA is the same as we are. Every time something becomes available that is relevant, you look at it and you see if you think that should have an effect on the policies you conduct. I would also like to answer another question raised by one of the spokesmen on this point in this way. With this I have had Mrs Ouwehand's questions and come to Mr De Groot. He talked about being crucial to bees. I certainly supported him in that. This applies to all animals which somehow contribute to pollination. Mr De Groot spoke about the importance of a set review framework. I very much agree with him. He also mentioned the risk of alternative means. I agree with him. I think it also fits in with what Mr Futselaar has said, namely that you should look at this case with reason and reason. Mr Grashoff said that the European Commission's proposals should at least be supported. Mrs Lodders also said the necessary thing about this. I have just chosen my own words for this, also in response to what Mr Grashoff said on this point. Mr Grashoff spoke about the strict enforcement of the cleaning rules applicable to greenhouses. He asked about the state of play and whether the exception that still applies is still necessary. We have put in place a policy for that. This is currently being carried out on schedule. That duty of purification begins, as Mr Grashoff said, in 2018. This can be met through individual, collective and mobile installations. There is a possibility that the competent authority, which are the municipalities and the water authorities, may postpone for three years for collective installations. They obviously need time to see if they want to do so. It'll take some time. I think we've done it responsibly. It's not like you're automatically delayed at collectivity. It can be granted, and those closest to it must have a great interest in it. A decision must therefore be taken. I believe that we have done well and have to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u51	I assume that we will only grant a postponement if there is real cause for this. But I am in the dark as to what criteria we are actually applying. Could the Minister clarify that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u52	If that is not clear to Mr Grashoff, then I must not rule out the fact that what we have provided to the Chamber with information on this point has not provided that clarity. I'll check it out. If that is not enough, I will give you additional information. If it is already included in the information, I will tell Mr Grashoff where it is. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have dealt with the points raised by Mr Graus. Mr von Martels said that he ultimately wants to move towards an emission-free and residue-free future. I think that is a very good aim, which we could all care about. What is also important is that we will be feeding 9 billion people in the world. That's what needs to be done. So there are a lot of other things that matter. For us as politicians, it is always our responsibility to find a balance, to make choices and to answer for them. Mr Von Martels wondered what farmers would have to do when the emotion wins over science. I agree with him. I think that's a legitimate sigh. Farmers bear a great responsibility in their complex environment and work hard for it, often with low margins. These people have a great responsibility, and they are willing to take that responsibility. But it is also part of this that we are giving them clarity. This means that we have to deal responsibly with the data from science and with that emotion. We must ensure that we ultimately create a workable situation for farmers. This workable situation will ultimately have to contribute, as I agree with Mr von Martels, to that emission-free and residue-free future that we hope to achieve. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u55	I had waited until the Minister's speech was over. It was a legitimate observation by the Minister that I assumed that the subject would be on the agenda of the next Agriculture and Fisheries Council. Can the Minister give an estimate when there will be more clarity in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u56	It could have been discussed by the European Commission in a relevant context before the beginning of October. That didn't happen. So that's not going to happen anymore. I will look into when the next likely opportunity is for the European Commission to take this on board. Because, as Mrs Lodder knows, the Member States must ultimately take a decision on this. I will check when that is and I will ensure that Mrs Lodder gets that information before the general consultation she will be having with me next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u57	We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. Speaking time is one minute, including tabling motions. But of course you know that very well, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I know. I do not even have a motion, because there are already motions that have been adopted and I have every confidence in them, including the new study on which the Minister has just said that he has yet to look at them. Very good, because that research underlines once again the conclusion that this Chamber has already drawn, namely that a European moratorium is really the most sensible. I am therefore curious when this recent evaluation of the Task Force on systemic pesticides can be assessed by the Cabinet and EFSA. Can the Minister clarify this? I am confident that this will only lead to the conclusion that we really need to limit these resources. Nor do I have a motion on the alternative route, which means that we need to focus on more agro-diversity, resilient varieties and more diverse agriculture. So we have to get rid of monoculture, because this is the step forward to be able to work completely without pesticides. This Chamber has already adopted motions on this subject, so I call on the cabinet to do what this Chamber believes is necessary. She's already predicted that in all her wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I have three motions and they also have some logic in the sense that the first is about the guidance document. I note in the letters that, if I may believe the Ctgb, there is very little communication between EFSA and the Ctgb. I find it very surprising that, when it comes to such an important subject, no one is aware that the whole document is being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u61	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u62	Oh, yeah, I'm gonna read the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yeah, you really need to read the motions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u64	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an accepted guidance document for bees is of high value in the discussion on neonicotinoids and the effects on bee populations;]] [[noting that the current guidance document for bees has not yet been accepted at EU level;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to acceptance;]] [[calls on the Government to seek broad support for the new guidance document for bees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas alternatives to the use of neonicotinoids exist;]] [[Whereas these alternatives do not necessarily have a lower risk profile;]] [[noting that knowledge of these alternatives is necessary for a responsible decision on the admission of these funds to the Dutch market;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the other EU Member States, to urge the European Commission to apply the guidance document for bees to alternative means with a high risk profile for bees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-402]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u66	Next time it really shouldn't be like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are gaps in the current pesticide assessment criteria;]] [[Considering the broad societal concern about the effects of pesticides on our health and biodiversity;]] [[noting that these gaps undermine the acceptance of pesticide research;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate gaps in the current assessment criteria;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to close existing gaps or gaps. supplement the existing criteria;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u68	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr President, I do not think you have given me a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u71	Well, I thought you... you'll have the floor. I don't know what's going on today. I looked around and I thought you didn't need a second term, but that conclusion was wrong. Mr Grashoff has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I have a short motion on the postponement of the cleaning obligation for greenhouses. I've heard the Minister's answer that he's still sending me information. I'm going to file the motion. Maybe I'll keep her on and maybe she'll show up after that information comes along, because I'd like to weigh it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as of 1 January 2018 greenhouse horticulture plants are obliged to purify plant protection products from the waste water;]] [[noting that companies wishing to collectively purify may be delayed until 1 January 2021;]] [[Considering that delay until 1 January 2021 presents significant risks to the environment and biodiversity, while sufficient treatment options are already possible;]] [[Calls on the Government to limit the exemption for collective treatment to 1 January 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr President, my respect for your authority is so great that I will not come if you do not mention my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u74	Then you won't dare. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I congratulated the Cabinet on its position. I must correct myself in so far as I note that the cabinet has failed to include the largest coalition party in that position. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would like to make every effort in his probably final weeks to convince that party of the accuracy of the cabinet position. Maybe he has some influence in there. If not, I have been told that the information department is very influential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you. Well, I guess I'll just take a look around and make sure I didn't miss anyone. Really? Then we really have reached the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. In the meantime, the Minister has had time to get to the motions tabled, with the exception of the last motion, Mr Grashoff's motion. Or do you have one? It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u78	Good. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand asked when the cabinet would come up with views on recent investigations. I can't give a date for that right now. As soon as there are relevant investigations, we ask the Ctgb for advice before taking a position. We will then take our position on the basis of that opinion. We always do that as soon as possible, so that will also be the case this time. I have received three motions from Mr De Groot, on which I would like to make one general comment. As a rule, these three motions are about things that I have already said I am going to do or are going to do. Those are once more recorded in a motion. I don't think you should. I'm supposed to declare such motions unnecessary, but well, I'm here in my afternoons and I'm in a mild mood. The Chamber in the new composition may still have to find its way into this. So let me take a more positive approach this time. In his first motion, in part No. 402, calls on Mr De Groot to seek broad support from the government for the new guidance document for bees. Yeah, we're working on that. I shall now refer to the motion as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In his second motion, in part No. 403, says Mr De Groot that the government, together with other EU Member States, should urge the Commission to apply the guidance document for bees to alternative means with a high risk profile for bees. I will now consider that motion to support policy, but I read the motion as follows. We have already asked to investigate the effects of the alternatives. So that's what needs to be done. I do not intend to declare taboo one group of active substances and substances and then to declare taboo the other group. Then the farmers will have to see how they get out. They may then have to use something else, which has more disadvantages or causes major other problems. That's not my intention. The crops must be grown in a responsible manner. This can also be done under certain conditions with the use of neonicotinoids. At least this can be done in greenhouses, but I have also made a number of other comments. We will have to look at the ins and outs of these alternatives and how to assess them. So we have already asked for the alternatives to be examined. If what we have asked for, i.e. examining the effects of the alternatives by the European Commission, is what Mr De Groot sees with his motion, then I see the motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. In his third motion, in part No. 404, Mr De Groot asked the government to investigate gaps in the current assessment criteria and to come forward with proposals to close them. Those gaps are known at the moment and are also closed by EFSA. This is necessary because the European policy is that the European authority that we have for this, EFSA, does the things that are needed. So they're working on it. I therefore only see this motion as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. The Grashoff motion in part No. 405 says that the exception for collective purification should be limited to 1 January 2019, rather than the three years that we have in mind. That derogation of three years is maximum and applies only if it is decided by the competent authority, i.e. the water authorities or the municipalities. I have made an appointment with them for those up to three years and I am convinced that they will use it responsibly. So I don't want to deviate from that appointment. That is why I reject this motion by Mr Grashoff. Then I have another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u80	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u81	I do not have any further motions, but there is one point that Mrs Lodder has to deal with. It asked for clarity on the decision-making process in Brussels. I have dealt with this in relation to one of the routes. We're talking about two trajectories. A trajectory concerns the glyphosates. Such approval shall expire on 31 December of this year. This means that the last time this can be discussed is the relevant meeting at which all Member States are present; that is the SCOPAFF meeting on 12 and 13 December. That's the last chance. We must therefore have completed our own position before then. From the second stage, for the neonicotinoids, it is not yet known when the decision-making will take place. As soon as I know more about that, I'll let the Chamber know. But I have already said what I can say now, namely that this will not take place at the beginning of October. A further date is not yet known. As soon as it gets out, the Chamber will hear it. I hope that I have responded to what has been said by the Chamber in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u83	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I thank the Minister. I think this was his last debate today.
