ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, all the spokesmen and the public in the public gallery. The debate has been requested by Mrs Agema of the PVV Group, who will be the first to speak. Speaking hours are three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before 1 January 2013 it was still quite pleasant to grow old in the Netherlands. If the house became too big to keep clean, it became difficult to go up the stairs or to shop and cook no longer went for granted, there was the possibility to live in a nursing home. That possibility was also there if you needed temporary care, because for example you had to recover from a broken hip. But all that had to be broken. After the Cat house break, the Kunduz chord was concluded and laughingly decided GroenLinks, the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union to extramuralize zzp 1 to 3, or in ordinary Dutch, closing the nursing homes. The PvdA was allowed to do that. The mantra that elderly people have wanted to live at home for longer since the 1980s has been stuck on the façade of the Ministry and to this day that mantra has been pushed down our throats. The facts: the number of nursing homes decreased from 78,000 at the beginning of 2013 to 17,500 according to the budget for the year 2017. Never has it been considered that the facilities of the nursing home allowed the elderly to live longer in a safe and healthy age. Never has it been considered that just support and guidance ensured that medication was ordered and taken. It has never been considered that a change in the state of health caused the family doctor to be called or that when a hip was broken, the older person could return to his own place in the nursing home after treatment in the hospital. Even more facts: according to the fire department, dozens have already been killed by closing the nursing homes and there are half more burns in 70-plussers. According to the police, 10% of the confused individuals picked from the street are dementing and security.nl even predicts that the number of people who die as a result of a fall in 2030 will have increased by 64%. The minister comes with her cloth for the bleeding, the first-line residence, because oh woe, those maleized nursing homes, you don't want them back. The number of first-line residences is constantly increasing. There's always a little bit more money coming in. But how many of those first-line residences are there right now, I ask the Minister. Because for 305 million euros, you don't have more than 6,000, do you? And that is a very stark contrast to those 78,000 nursing homes we still had in the beginning of 2013? Despite many regional initiatives, it has not improved. Emergency aid stations cannot cope with the influx of elderly people, because these elderly people cannot go anywhere after treatment. Even surgeries are cancelled because the hospital beds are occupied by the elderly, the elderly who, of course, do not want to be there, although 40% of them return within a year. But then there is the Dutch Healthcare Authority's solution. There must be agreement between the emergency services to draw up a protocol for referral back together with the interbranch organisations, because yes, the older one with the broken hip, that is the culprit, that must be removed. We think you may have a fracture, ma'am, but first go back to the GP and come back to the hospital tomorrow for a picture. What a terrible thing it is that the leaders in charge are constantly tiresome of us with their mantras that older people have really wanted this all to happen themselves, that this trend has been going on since the 1980s and that the closing down of care homes by 2013 and 2014 really has nothing to do with it. I only have one call: start refinancing the nursing homes that are still in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Acute care for the elderly, this concept did not exist a few years ago. It says something about the changes in care for the elderly and the problems surrounding overcrowded emergency services. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, these problems need to be resolved, because we can complain, but as far as I am concerned, it is also up to our people's representatives to propose solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	There's a question for you from Mrs. Agema right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	According to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, a solution must be found. Yes, of course, and that is why we have this debate here today. But we also have this debate here today because the 2013 budget by GroenLinks decided to stop funding the nursing homes. And then today I read that Mrs Ellemeet is proposing a new kind of nursing home. It's crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is a pity that the PVV is always so inclined to shop very selectively in proposals made by GroenLinks. I would therefore recommend to the PVV to also think in terms of solutions and not to linger in a lamentation, which ultimately does not really help the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm not gonna take this! It was Jolande Sap who, laughing at the Kunduz coalition, closed the nursing homes three days after the Cat house break. Those are the facts. I'm not gonna let anyone in this house lean on me that what I'm saying here isn't true. It's GroenLinks who caused it. It is GroenLinks through which the nursing homes are closed. The fact that GroenLinks is now coming up with a so-called solution is really crazy. Mrs Ellemeet may be the new spokesperson, but every time she comes here with variants at the nursing home I will appeal to her that, by her party, those nursing homes are closed. And that's the only truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	GroenLinks has always worked for good care for the elderly, whether at home or in an institution. That care is not enough yet, and that's why I'm standing here. I would therefore like to continue my speech now, in which I also offer some solutions to the problems we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	I suggest you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is important that elderly people who have an acute situation in an emergency are helped by people who understand the elderly, such as a geriatric nurse and an elderly care specialist. In this way, we prevent the elderly from ending up in a medical mill, which only makes their health worse. Would it not be desirable if there were a separate elderly post at hospitals or nursing homes with a lot of knowledge of the elderly and their care questions? Is the Minister prepared to discuss with health insurers and healthcare providers the possibilities for setting up these elderly posts? I'd like a response. The introduction of first-line beds about a year and a half ago appears to be an important and indispensable provision for elderly people who are temporarily unable to live at home. We now see that the way in which first-line accommodation is organised is extremely diverse and we are getting signals that capacity is insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	There is an interruption for you from Mrs Kooiman of the SP Group. You saw me signaling to the Chamber that we are doing the interruptions in two today. I call Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	What Mrs Elllemeet is saying now raises a lot of questions. I think it is commendable that GroenLinks is at least thinking about solutions, but I have to say to the PVV that if we hadn't closed those care homes, it wouldn't have gotten so crowded on those first aid posts either. So what problem does Mrs Ellemeet solve at the moment when these care homes are closed down but something needs to be set up again with regard to those care homes which are already closed down? I don't really understand that. So can Mrs Ellemeet explain that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	Sure. It is important that older people who want to stay home longer and can do so also get the good care they need. We now see that this is not always the case. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech. What should we do for these elderly people who want to live at home so that they can actually do so in a responsible and safe way? In addition, of course, when elderly people come to a hospital with an acute care question, they must also be able to be really well helped. We see that this often goes wrong now, that they sometimes have to stay in the emergency room for up to six and a half hours. We do not want that, and that is also irresponsible. So I also offer a solution to this problem, namely separate elderly posts with the knowledge you need to help those older people well and thereby prevent them from being sent to hospital, which often doesn't help them in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	I still don't get it. Why should we open separate senior posts, while GroenLinks has calculated in her election programme that she wants to close 30 emergency posts? So why are we creating something new, while GroenLinks is cutting back on it in her election programme? I really don't get it. So at least let's keep those first aid posts we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	We need to look very carefully where these emergency services are needed and desired. We need them where they're needed. At the same time, we also need to organise it efficiently. So we have to organize it so cleverly that everyone gets help quickly. That may mean that I also suggest that you have a separate provision for that vulnerable group of elderly people, helping them faster and accelerating the flow of emergency services. Then people get helped faster and the pressure on the emergency rooms decreases. So you are offering a solution for both the people who are not old but who end up in the emergency room and the elderly. This way you can organize it smarter and provide good care to the elderly who also need this care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to say that the way in which the first-line residence is now organized is extremely diverse. We are also getting signals that the capacity is insufficient. Would it not be wise to offer first-line accommodation in connection with acute care for the elderly, with emergency care? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Would it not also be wise to examine the use and good examples of first-line residence after the start phase of one and a half years of first-line residence, while also looking at the further development possibilities of ELV? I'd like to get a reaction to this. If we want older people to be able to stay at home for a longer period of time with the care and support they need to do so and not end up unnecessarily in emergency care, then we will have to improve the necessary. For example, we must get rid of the perverse incentive of our own contribution to care at home within the Long-Term Care Act. This prevents older people from moving from the Health Insurance Act to the Wlz, while this is desirable in view of their situation. Because of the many islands we have created with our laws of care and well-being, the elderly are also at risk of getting between shore and ship. If we want to take good care of our older people, it is essential that municipalities, health care offices, general practitioners, carers and health insurance companies find each other and actually work together. It's not happening enough right now. Together they face the task of supporting our elders. Does the Minister agree with me that this cooperation is still inadequate? Is it prepared to explore how the scope for cooperation can be increased, for example through more experimental space in the relevant laws for cross-border cooperation? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Ellemeet has already passed, but she touched on an important subject. On the one hand, you have care under the Health Insurance Act, the neighborhood nurse care that people get at home, without their own contribution. On the other hand, you have the full package at home from the Long-Term Care Act, with even a strong income-dependent own contribution. Now Mrs Ellemeet says at once that this contribution must be withdrawn. It has focused on its own risk all the time, but now it believes that this contribution should be removed. That's news to me. I recently read the GroenLinks election programme. I don't read anything about that here. Then I thought, "Maybe I should be in charge of passing on the GroenLinks election programme." And what do we read there? GroenLinks introduces a power test in the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo. This is actually an increase in the capital income addition from 8% to 100%. How credible is this: let an election programme pass through which the own contribution is not deleted, but extremely increased, until even the full income can be souped up, and then a few months later stand here and say that the own contribution should go away? Which GroenLinks should I believe here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	The answer is simple. There is a distinction between the inpatient care of the Long-Term Care Act and the care at home. That is an important distinction. Home care must be accessible to everyone. It should not be the case that the elderly who are now using the Health Insurance Act should not, for financial reasons, take the step towards the full package at home within the Long-Term Care Act. That is why we say that the income-dependent contribution should be removed. The power test, which is indeed also an important part of the inpatient care of the Long-Term Care Act, should not change anything in our view. That's in our election program and in our billing. I'm still very supportive of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Arno Rutte. It can be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I needed some explanation. In all honesty, there is no mention in the GroenLinks election programme of the deletion of this own contribution. It does say that their own contributions in the Wlz are extremely increased. How credible is it now to say at the moment when it is convenient: do away with your own contribution? Is that a form of responsibility vacation at GroenLinks? I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Again, the power test and the capital contribution remain as far as we are concerned. Inpatient care is another story. It also remains to be seen that this is also stated in our electoral programme, and we have always argued that it should never be the case that a contribution of our own is an obstacle to people getting the care they need. Now we see a very strange situation in which care at home is not subject to any own contribution under one law and the other law did. We need to get rid of this discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	Your contribution raises many questions. Mrs Keijzer from the CDA also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	How much does that cost and how will GroenLinks pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	We can pay for that, because it will ultimately yield money. There is therefore a long-term saving. What's going on? Now people don't have the care they need. We can see that this increases the pressure on the emergency services. Older people end up in the emergency room with all kinds of complaints, because there is too little attention for these people at home. They'd get that attention if they got the care from the Law on Long-Term Care. If we give the care they need to the elderly at home, we will avoid major expenditure which is now being incurred, among other things, in the emergency services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. I hear "if, if, if, if"! I can't get away with it from my couch and my bakery. So I'm curious how this actually works out, because otherwise it's really too easy to put it down here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	I think it is very important that we, as representatives of the people, look at the big picture. We see that investment in the short term will bring savings in the long term. In the end, we are talking about older people who want to stay home longer. We must make that possible for everyone. It must never be the case that one's own contribution is an obstacle to good care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. You're just gonna be that parent with a deadly baby waiting for help at the emergency room for two hours. Or you're just gonna be the older one who fell home, who's drove into the hospital by the ambulance station, but then you're gonna have to wait for help. It happens, and it happens more and more often. But I don't see any action from these rulers to solve this. What do I see? I see nursing homes being closed down. As an older person, you only have to be able to lie horizontal in order to qualify for a place at all. And even then, you have to wait a lot. I also see that older people who are obliged to live at home are getting less and less care. Also in home care, people lose their jobs and patients lose their care. A patient stop has even been announced in home care. That is very worrying, because there is no control at all and because of that the influx of emergency services is often increasing. The general practitioners also see this phenomenon and become overburdened. There's not much time. General practitioners are already unable to cope with the growing complex need for care. It is not just the elderly, it is also the confused people who are regularly found in the emergency room. They need acute care. They sometimes go through literally as a result of the treatment stops in the ggz. And unfortunately, this cabinet doesn't pick it up. The Minister is running out of concern. You'd think you'd be strengthening those emergency rooms, of course. But that is not the case either. Despite all this, the directors still close all kinds of first aid posts in the local hospitals. My urgent appeal to the rulers is therefore that we should immediately ban the closure of emergency services. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In addition, the SP wants investment in people and in the hands of the bed. This Minister has announced that we need to train more nurses, because there is a shortage of them. The Minister's letter shows that there is hardly any training. When will the Minister ensure that more emergency nurses are trained? When will this promise be fulfilled? In order to relieve the burden of emergency care, this minister will have to stop cutting cuts in all care. In any case, give general practitioners sufficient time and ensure that they also have sufficient time for patients when they come for emergency care. Put the treatment stops in the ggz and in home care. Ensure adequate care at home and in the nursing homes. I want the Minister to look at that and answer it instead of having fun market scans and nice forms of consultation, because letters don't help people. People help people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. We have often talked here about the emergency care that is in danger, the rack that is out and the increasing pressure on staff. If someone needs help urgently, this aid must not be delayed too long. That's a starting point we all share here. There are worrying reports, but the NZa concludes that acute care as a whole is not under pressure. However, cooperation and coordination are needed to ensure long-term accessibility. For this reason, last June, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber with action points in different areas, aligned with the field and the different regions. This shows that problems and severity differ and that there is no single dominant cause to be identified. So there is no easy solution, even if we would like to. For example, pressure is increasing due to the influx of vulnerable elderly people. There's a shortage of staff. The flow to the hospital and the outflow to home or follow-up are not going well. As I said, since there are different causes, there is no solution. Agreements have been made, including on labour market cuts, improving flow and increased cooperation. I would like to hear from the Minister what the latest state of affairs is. How do the additional recommendations also focus on quality? This has been implemented from the NZa scan. There's a whole list that all kinds of people need to be in charge of. Each region would also be given one point of contact, so that caregivers no longer have to make endless calls in search of a first-line accommodation. My question to the Minister is: does every region now have such a window? How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mrs Dijkstra asks about the conclusions of the NZA market scan, but what does she actually think of those conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	I believe that these conclusions provide a great many points of departure in order to find a solution to this problem, because, of course, this is not a single situation that applies to everything and to every region. There are a lot of regional differences. So you have to look very carefully at what solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	Isn't it a bit thin that the NZa actually only comes up with the proposal to refer people back from emergency care to the GPs. The older one with the broken hip comes to the emergency room and has to go back to the doctor's office or have to come back for that picture tomorrow. If we look at that market scan, we can see that 30% of the people entering the emergency room in the big cities are suffering from minor ailments. Don't you think it's weird that the word "allochtoon" doesn't appear in that whole report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	To start with that last point: I don't think that's weird at all. Let me turn to the examples of Mrs Agema, such as someone who is sent back with a broken hip, home or to the family doctor. I don't think we should make a caricature out of that. We need to worry about the right things. We have to worry about vulnerable elderly people who end up in hospitals or in emergency care, while they can be very well cared for and treated in the general practitioner's office or in the general practitioner's office. As we all know, a demented elderly person in the first aid of a hospital is a tragedy. It's totally freaked out. It's completely out of control. It's been going on for a very long time. We need to look very closely at that. The caricature of the mortally ill baby that is not treated in the emergency room for hours: sorry, let us also take ourselves seriously. Let's look at what's really going on. Let's take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I didn't mention a sick baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, but I'm gonna call that one anyway. It applies to all spokesmen. I like to address my colleagues. Let us not do that. Let us look at what is really going on and how we can solve it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u37	I did mention that deadly-sick baby, because I do speak to people from the field. That's what I'm told. I hear that aid workers are very keen to help people, but that patients are sometimes sent from hospital to hospital as mail packages. However, I would like to point out that it is positive. D66 is a party that regularly asks parliamentary questions about, for example, closing first aid posts. I'll give you Woerden as an example. Doesn't D66 also think that we should at least consider whether the first aid in regional hospitals, the emergency care there, can be maintained, so that people are not sent from hospital to hospital as postal packages?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u38	In this respect, too, we must look closely at the situation in the region. That's why I asked questions about it. You can't just say that everything has to be rigged up in every region. In places where many vulnerable elderly people are, you can also do a lot with first-line help and one and a half centres to which experts and elderly specialists are associated. They can take care of those people there. They can also offer first aid there. A lot of solutions are possible. I find it far too easy to keep the ERs open everywhere. We already have a staff problem. You'll need 24-hour staff available. That's just not there, regardless of the cost of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u39	The answer can be a little shorter. Mrs. Kooiman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u40	Where there is a political will, there is a way. We need to help these people, also regionally, especially in Woerden, where people will have to drive another half hour for suitable help, where pregnant women will not be able to get immediate care and have to sit in a car for 45 minutes before they get care. The situation is well known. I cannot accept the fact that D66 alone says: we can make savings on that. I am once again looking forward to the budgetary treatment of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u41	I have, of course, made it clear that I think that we should look at different solutions in the different regions. That remains the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u42	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes. Many measures in the NZa scan focus on shortening the waiting times on the ER. But a care question often occurs before. So you should actually try to take that care question away early. The NZa makes proposals for this, but also in the September edition of the magazine for primary care, for example, an important direction of thought is outlined, which I would like to quote. "As far as substitution is concerned, the greatest need at present lies in caring for vulnerable elderly people. If their care can be improved by local cooperation between general practitioners, district nurses and elderly care specialists, and a first-line stay is available, emergency care can be prevented." I have the following question to the Minister, and perhaps also to the Secretary of State, because this is about vulnerable elderly people and about cooperation. How can it be encouraged that this substitution space is also being used for this purpose? Finally, it is important that the measures mentioned are taken swiftly. In order to be able to deal effectively with the problem, it is necessary to think fully. Coordination is important. However, many different players are on the move for the action points. I wonder how the Minister and the Secretary of State will play their role in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to look at this debate on emergency aid on behalf of the PvdA Group from three perspectives. First of all, from the patient's. It would be crazy if we didn't. Secondly, I want to look at it from the perspective of doctors and nurses who work there and who are involved. Thirdly, I would also like to see it from the perspective that it should not be too expensive and become too expensive. First of all, I come to the patient's perspective. The picture is that in the Netherlands patients do not get emergency help when they do need it. That's right, I'm asking the rulers. Mrs Dijkstra has just referred to this. Is this okay? And does this also apply to people who live in the region and perhaps need longer ambulances? We have had other debates on this. Is this guaranteed for everyone in the Netherlands at any time? A second point. If you've been helped there, you're in intensive care and you don't need that intensive care anymore, where will you end up? Is that also a little decently arranged? Or are you being lured with? Or are you being sent home when you don't actually have enough home care in the first few days? Or do you end up in an institution where you really don't fit, because you had to get away from the intensive care where the bed is so expensive? How's that? Quite frankly, the PvdA Group is more concerned about this. How does the cabinet keep this from happening while this cabinet is still there? And how else would a next cabinet prevent this? The second perspective is that of doctors and nurses. I haven't been as concerned as my colleagues, so I haven't had as many practical interviews as they have. But the people I've spoken to, they've been busy for a very long time when they have someone in the department. These include not only elderly people, but also young people who have used drugs or alcohol on weekends. The intensive care is packed with such young people on the weekends. They've been helped there. They're no longer in mortal danger. Then where are you going with a kid who's under the coke, or under the MDMA, or who's tired of starnacle? Where are you going with it? That's a real problem. Then there's a nurse with someone like that who's in all states and sometimes delusional. Who's gonna catch them? Where's it going? How is that actually dealt with? The group of older people is, of course, by far the largest group. But is this okay? And doesn't it take those people too much time to make some calls to get rid of the patients? Then they can't be doing their job. They sometimes spend hours doing this, regardless of the legal procedures when they make a decision that is considered irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. Third. Yeah, that's what we need to talk about. Look, care in intensive care is one of the most expensive forms of care there is, apart from the pharmaceuticals, but that's another theme. One of the most expensive forms of care there is. So we only have to use it when it's really necessary. Isn't it true that when this is better arranged, for example, the ggz waiting lists when people are psychologically confused, when it is better arranged that older people get to a better place faster, that it is both less costly and better care, and so we keep acute care reliable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you for your contribution. There is another question for you from Mrs. Agema. I'm reporting to the Chamber that we're doing three interruptions in two. That means that this is going to be her last interruption in the first term for Mrs Agema. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then Mona's lucky! And so is Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u48	You can still save your interruption for another party, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u49	Look, of course, we all know that during the elections the Labour Party got a huge beating from the electorate and had to turn in a huge number of seats: 29. It's become a small opposition party. But we also know that the Labour Party carried out and caused the whole thing, the closure of nursing homes. We also know that the Secretary of State is sticking to his story: they wanted it for themselves, this has been happening since the 1980s. Yeah, he's already got his new job, but Mr. Nijboer's gonna be here with us in the next few years. Wouldn't it be a good thing if the Labour Party instead of coming up with a new made-up story just said sorry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yes, Mr. Chairman, we want to pay 2 billion for better nursing and nursing homes. The talk about them closes everything, they've broken everything down, Mrs. Agema, I don't know what world you live in, you're going to visit regularly, there's an extra 2 billion in this spring note, by a outgoing cabinet. There's more to it. I take the second party of the Netherlands seriously, so I have just looked at your election programme: everything you have for the whole care, for the elderly, for the ggz, for the youth care, for the Wmo and for home care is even less than the 2 billion allocated by the cabinet. And I've read nothing more than an A4 election program, which I can base on. I take that very seriously, but all those big words of yours are supported by nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u52	Well, Mr. Nijboer, this is just not right. Look, you're saying we're gonna have 2 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u53	Measure 8!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u54	Under Rutte II, 37,000 people were released from care and nursing homes. That is the fault of the Labour Party. Don't come up with an attack on the PVV, which has nothing to do with that. Under Rutte II the nursing homes are closed, the funding has just stopped. Do not attack the PVV if the Labour Party has caused it. My question to you was: don't you realize that you've been incredibly stupid over the past few years? And you can say that we will have 2 billion, but that is for a minimum occupancy of two out of eight. That's a minimum standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u56	Because there aren't any right now. Because, during the Labour Party's reign, 37,000 employees were dismissed from care and nursing homes, 2 billion is needed to provide a minimum occupancy of two employees out of eight residents only during peak times. We don't even have the budget yet, and there would only be 435 million instead of 2 billion. So don't be a big deal here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u57	Point is clear. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u58	I understand that Mrs Agema, like more PVVs, finds it annoying to be contradicted. But I take the PVV's proposals very seriously. It's the second party of the country. You have presented an election program where 2 billion will be allocated to everything in healthcare. I note that in spring notes, the cabinet has already allocated more to nursing homes. Well, then you don't have home care, you don't have youth care, you don't have ggz, and Mrs. Agema speaks big of it. Your election programme hasn't even been calculated, by the way. I get that. Bringing up 7.2 billion with asylum seekers and I don't know what, doesn't make any sense at all. Anyway, the only thing we have, I take seriously. That's just less than other parties do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mrs Agema wishes to report a factual error. I will give her a very brief opportunity to do so. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u60	Well, factually wrong: Mr. Nijboer didn't even bother to read the A4 right, because it's 5.7 billion. 5.7 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u61	3.7 billion own risk. That's 4.5, but okay, it's close. And $2 billion for all the other care. Measure eight. I just called it in, because I thought you were gonna give me interruptions, so I had to be well prepared. That's for everything. And this cabinet allocates more than 2 billion to Spring paper. That is far too little, Mrs Agema, far too little. And it's uncovered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you for your contribution. Mrs Agema, you have interrupted three times and you have made two additional corrections. I can imagine that you would like to debate with the Labour Party for hours, but we are going to conclude this 30-member debate at 12.15 p.m. I suggest you use your second term to make this a point. You have had the opportunity to report a factual error and you can return to it in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes, there is a factual error.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u64	Yeah, but when it comes to factual inaccuracies, we're at the PVV all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u65	I suggest that both Mr Nijboer and Mrs Agema continue this debate at another time. There is a second deadline and there will be a budget debate on VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u66	But he's lying!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mrs Agema, we cannot postpone this debate indefinitely because of the correction of factual inaccuracies. You have had the opportunity to do so, Mr Nijboer has finished his speech and there will be a second deadline. I suggest that we move on to the order of the debate. That means I am giving the floor to Mrs Keijzer of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. The rapid health care reforms have caused problems. This has become clear in recent years, among other things, in the chain of acute care. More and more elderly people continue to live at home, but there have been too few beds at the Wlz crisis shelter, the first-line residence and the geriatric nursing home care. As a result, many older people now end up in emergency care unnecessarily and unnecessarily for a long time and cannot just leave. This creates pressure throughout the chain of emergency care, general practitioners and ambulance services. These problems need to be resolved quickly. It is therefore good to see that the Minister, together with the various regions, has agreed on an approach. We do not yet have all the promised information, but for now I have some questions about the Minister's approach. The access to geriatric rehabilitation care is not only limited because there are too few beds. The current rules on opening a dbc • an account • for geriatric rehabilitation care ensure that patients cannot be helped in the right way, the right place and the right time. Patients end up in the emergency room unnecessarily and stay there for too long. Is the Minister prepared to examine with the Dutch Healthcare Authority whether the possibilities for opening a dbc for this geriatric rehabilitation care can be extended from the emergency services? This will lead to faster reaching the right place for care for our elderly. In all regions, offices should be provided where general practitioners and hospitals can be found 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, if they are looking for a bed. The insurers would inform if this had been achieved by 1 September at the latest. This is important. Because when you talk to doctors, general practitioners, nurses and people in nursing homes, you hear that one of the biggest problems is that they don't know where they are. Is there such a window everywhere now? And are these counters sufficiently known to general practitioners and hospitals? Has there been much use of this? And what happens to a report at one of those counters? Who is ultimately responsible for the right care in the right place? Since the points of contact are set up by the health insurance companies, and so they have a duty to provide care, that is what we are talking about today, it is perhaps logical that this responsibility should lie with those health insurance companies. The House will receive much more information about the pressure on acute care in the near future. Yesterday or this morning we received the market scan of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, the care watchdog. The Dutch Healthcare Authority concludes that interested parties will consider how to adjust the financing of acute care so that a better distribution in that care can be achieved. I have just referred to the rules for opening a dbc........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Because we know very well, for example from the district nurse, that in the end you still have nothing when the duty of care is there but not enough care is bought in and arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you for your contribution. There's a question for you from Mrs. Kooiman. For her too, that is the last interruption in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's too bad, because I always get extra angry with the input of the VVD, but that's the way it is. At the CDA I miss a bit of the enthusiasm I saw in the debate in Carré at Buma. He called on Mr Asscher to cut back on the first aid posts and on the regional hospitals. I do not really hear that in Mrs Keijzer's speech. Does Mrs Keijzer still believe that these first aid posts should remain open at regional hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u71	In my view, Mrs Kooiman refers to austerity measures in the D66 and GroenLinks programmes. They weren't in there with us. That is the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u72	So if I propose today to at least maintain those local hospitals and first aid posts, because there are some on the nomination to be closed, the CDA supports my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u73	For that, we are currently discussing the future of all kinds of subjects at the formation table, and I cannot anticipate that. That won't surprise Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Arno Rutte, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. It's crowded with the emergency services in our country. That signal's not new. It was first delivered intrusively last year. I think it was said from Amsterdam that the emergency aid flooded there. The signal was also sent that the type of patient reporting to the emergency services is changing very quickly: from the known emergency care patient with, for example, a severe gaping wound to people who are very vulnerable and very old. That composition changes. On that signal, the Minister acted directly. That's very good. It has put parties together, all these "urgent regions," to see what was going on and what had to be done about it. I am sometimes surprised at how things are going in this house, because at the time when the letter came out, a very heavy letter, in which all those regions say: we are going to solve this and we are going to deal with this debate on 'there is a problem'. No, we already knew that. Solutions must be found and there is a letter containing solutions. Mrs Kooiman, who always gets very angry at me, I mean it really well said that letters do not help people, but that people help people, but I would like to say here that debates do not help people and that people help people. We need to work on all the recommendations made by the people from all these different regions. All these regions are also different and call for other measures. There are really very good actions behind it and the regions simply need to get to work. My main question is how things stand with that. In November the first feedback will come, but perhaps a tip of the veil can be lifted. There's one thing that surprises me. I fully understand the fact that different regions in this country have a different range of care services and perhaps other solutions. That's right, but some problems are everywhere. I still read that the flow is one of the major problems, so the vulnerable patient comes to the emergency room. One does not know how to get those in the right place. Often someone has to go to a nursing home, but is unknown which beds are free and whether someone can get a place. Then I think, "That's weird." There is also a region in the Netherlands where people always know that. In the north of the country, in Groningen, healthcare providers have jointly established a cooperative: ZorgnaZorg. They have every nursing home bed and every first-line bed in picture and are always able to repeat: at all times to place someone the next day. If such solutions exist in our country, then the big question remains why this is not being followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. Yes, this message was also news years ago! Despite all regional consultations, projects, hunting teams and additional budgets, it does not seem that much has been improved. In fact, the situation seems to be getting worse. 50PLUS would therefore like to know from the Minister how it is that the result is so long overdue. It can write in its letter that it is now mainly up to the parties to pursue actions, but it is clear that this is not self-evident. The government is certainly appealing to the quality, but also to the availability of care. In this context, the major changes in the system have also been made in recent years. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, they are certainly not a great success. This is mainly because the conditions are not in order. We ask the Minister to address the health insurers and tell them that they should organise not only national but also regional and local good and sufficient first-line accommodation. That's their duty of care. Multiple Regional Transfers Acute Healthcare Chain, have indicated that insufficient first-line accommodation has been purchased in their region. There may be enough nationwide, but the division is not as needed. The NZa's Market Scan acute care concludes that acute care is currently available at this time, but that the pressure is increasing. The signals from the field sound a lot more urgent. The many recommendations made by the Dutch Healthcare Authority to promote inflow, flow and outflow are clear enough. But how come there are so long signals coming out of the field and there are problems in acute care, but the urgent points of improvement remain? Again, it appears that the transition from care tasks to municipalities and the extramuralisation of care has not given sufficient thought to the conditions and consequences. Many more vulnerable elderly people live independently, often with much less care, so it is not surprising that many more elderly people end up in emergency care. What we find very strange is that the Dutch Healthcare Authority calls the increasing number of elderly people in the emergency services an external factor, while according to the National Network Acute Care is one of the main causes that will only weigh more heavily in the coming years. The Minister states that since the end of last year she has been talking to the health insurers about purchasing and organising the first-line residence. We've already talked about the counter. We are wondering: 1 September we would be told whether those offices are now organised by the health insurance companies in this country. If not, I hope that the Minister will just take the insurance companies seriously for once. She's allowed to slap the fist on the table once, even though she's a missionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u77	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Finally. The shortage of staff is of course also a problem. I have one more question. 50PLUS would like to know from the minister what she thinks of the neighborhood hospital. This is an experiment in Amsterdam, a kind of health centre-plus in which elderly people can stay temporarily. It's an initiative of Bianca Neighbor. It starts in 2018. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she sees this as one of the possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. When preparing this kind of debate, I often find it pleasurable to have reports, market scans and so on as they are on the table today, and to listen to the practice. Because if you rely solely on reports, you sometimes have a rather rosy and technocratic picture. If you rely only on practical signals, you can sometimes generalize those one or two encounters that you have had, to the whole of the Netherlands, as if that were the case. That is why I think that the combi, which is also mentioned in this debate, is very valuable. Today, I would like to draw attention to three practical signals surrounding this issue. First of all, people from the ambulance services say when they visit work and in e-mails that it really gets worse in practice: patients stop here, patients stop there. They say: you do say that there are places where elderly people can be safely nursed in the neighborhood, but we find that is often a problem. My question to the Minister: do you recognize this problem? Something has been done, there has been considerable investment in recovery beds and such, but it seems that the deficit is still quite considerable. What exactly is being done about that? The second signal is a positive story, from the experiences in the emergency aid of Haaglanden Medisch Centrum Westeinde. There they say they've done a lot of work on an integrated approach, with mental health care. For people who otherwise needed psychological help from outside, so the confused people who also end up at the hospital, it could sometimes take hours before the psychiatric crisis service could be there. They now have their own psychiatric emergency ward with rooms for these patients. This seems to be very positive in practice. But this is now only a temporary measure, with subsidies from ZonMw, which will expire in a few months' time. My question to the Minister is: have these signals, that this is a good practice, reached the Minister, and how can this be continued and extended? My final point is again a negative signal. Mr Nijboer mentioned this earlier. An important cause of the pressure on emergency services is that drinking and drug-related help on weekends. An ambulance brother wrote about this: I'm going crazy with the drink-and-drug rides on the ambulance; while serious rush rides are on hold, we go with horns and phone calls to the next drunk who's mopping on the street in his or her own vomit; and the cramped older man or woman with a broken hip is later driven to a hospital outside the region, because there is no recording capacity in his or her own city. This is not one signal; we get this regularly. My question is: is this enough on the retina? What measures can be taken to make it possible to take a ride to prison rather than to tax the emergency services? And what other measures can be taken to reduce this pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u80	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see to the Secretary of State and the Minister that they will not need much time to respond. However, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that those who need it can wash their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u81	The next item is the 30-member debate on emergency care, which is being put at risk by overcrowded emergency services. We have arrived at the first term of the cabinet. First, the Minister will answer the questions and then the Secretary of State. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Acute care The word "acuute" says it does not allow any delay. We are facing an increasing demand for acute care and I do not expect that demand to decrease. On the contrary, with an ageing society, it is obvious that demand will increase. So we need to make sure that the whole chain of acute care can handle this demand. That is a huge task. Currently, both National Network Acute Care and the NZa indicate that the pressure on acute care is still high. Fortunately, the accessibility of acute care as a whole and the importance of patients are not at risk according to the NZa, I say in response to Mr Nijboer. The National Network Acute Care indicates that agreements have been made in all regions to ensure that a vitally endangered patient receives the necessary care in good time. Both the National Network Acute Care and the NZa indicate that the growing pressure on acute care per link and region has many causes, not one of which is dominant. That also makes it complex. Then I can hit the table and say that it must be solved now, but if something is complex and has a multitude of causes, it has little effect. Then you will have to zoom deeper into the question of what causes there are and how to solve them. That's what I did. I asked the NZa to zoom in on it: what are these causes? Think of an increased influx, an increasing number of elderly people living at home, people using the general practitioner's post in the evening as an alternative to the general practitioner during the day, the stagnation in the flow, for example from the emergency service into the hospital, and the stagnation in the flow to care at home or to follow-up care. As these causes for crowds vary by link and region, action needs to be taken on many fronts. The NZa market scan gives clear recommendations. One of them is cooperation. If it improves, we can distribute the pressure on acute care more evenly. Then patients get the right care in the right place. I've been to these kinds of sessions myself in a hospital, with home care and everything around it. Then you see how complicated and how simple it is sometimes. Sometimes it's complicated to organize it, but it's also often about finding the right person at the right time. Patients who require immediate care do not always require acute care. Sometimes they don't have to go to the emergency room, but they can go to the general practitioner or the general practitioner's office. Older people are sometimes much better helped in the first-line residence than in the first-line. Something needs to be done throughout the chain of acute care, from ambulance services, general practitioners, general practitioners, hospitals, ggz crisis services, community care, first-aid centres and nursing homes, to emergency services. This is preferably done within the regions, because they know what it can offer and tailor-made solutions. They know the demographic and geographical conditions and are aware of the supply of care. The Regional Transfer Acute Care is already working on this. A great deal has been set in motion. I've already sent you quite a lot of information. I now also have a whole list of what we, as a ministry, are doing right now. I do not think it makes much sense to list that whole list in my introduction. I think it would be much better if I sent a letter to your Chamber in which I write what we all do. All in all, what I've already sent and what I'm going to send, indicates that the problems in acute care are unfortunately not solved at the push of a button. In particular, it calls for measures to improve cooperation and coordination between healthcare providers, and certainly for management and facilitation by health insurers. But everyone's on top of it. That is also necessary, because the pressure is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u83	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema. Also in the first term of the cabinet we work with three interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u84	Indeed, I have examined all the Minister's activities well in all the recent letters. We got that market scan on Monday. There's been a meeting. There are working/focus groups. Initiatives have been taken. There's not a single cause to be identified. There's a chain problem. There are no signs that too little care has been bought in. Solutions are being worked hard. The field parties are supported. Extra money is being released for ambulances. The first-line rooms are being strengthened. Good examples are shared. There is consultation on the labour market. But none of these things are really concrete or verifiable. The only thing I found in that is that EUR 55 million extra for the first-line total, which amounts to EUR 305 million. How many first-line beds does the Minister have for that and is that really enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u85	That is not the only concrete thing. For example, we train as much as possible. In the time I am a minister, I have always trained as the Capacity Body with proposals to the maximum. The number of training places for nurses has not even been completed. I'm better now. We have made 700 available, there are 650 nurses in these places, 50 not yet. This is running more fully but is not yet the maximum. I made 10 million extra available within the ambulance services for training as an ambulance nurse. I'll get to the answer in a minute, but just for the practicality. In the main agreement, I agreed 140 million per year for strategic training plans. I started an experiment with the Bachelor's medical aid worker. I have 55 million extra available to provide first-line accommodation. 30 million has been added to the macro framework of community care, so that proper care can be provided. I have 15.7 million more budget for distribution and availability fees for paramedics. And then I have Mrs Agema's question about the first-line beds for which additional money has been made available. The information on this is that in 2016, 1,401 providers delivered a total of 3,250 places to first-line accommodation, ranging between 1 and 150 beds. For 2017, there are no signals that insufficient capacity has been purchased according to the NZa market scan. The budget for the first-line accommodations in 2017 is 305 million, including the increase of 55 million that we added this year in the Main Lines agreement on medical-specialist care. With this budget of 305 million, 3,800 places can be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u86	All these gestures are concrete but so little verifiable. The Minister now mentions two numbers of beds that we have not received before. We have heard these 1,401 providers before, but not those 3,250, or those 3,800 places. These are new figures, which I do not think we have received before. My question was, if you make this concrete, apart from all those gestures in the vein of "I have so many million here and so many million there," whether that's enough. It doesn't seem like it. 3,250 places is so little compared to the 78,000 nursing homes that were still in place on 1 January 2013. So my question to the Minister is how she now knows with all these good intentions whether those 3,250 places are enough, or far too little. How is she going to make that concrete? How can we control that? We have this debate here every time. When I asked, I said, "This looks like a message from two years ago." It keeps coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u87	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yeah, but something happened in the meantime, because we've asked the NZa to run a scan of what's going on. We all hear loose signals and it is good if the NZa takes a concrete look at them and also evaluates whether they have signals that this is sufficient or not. A bed or a place in a nursing home is a place that is constantly occupied by someone who simply lives in that nursing home. A first-line stay is a temporary stay for someone who does not have medical-specialist care, someone who does not have to go to a nursing home or a nursing home, but also someone who cannot go home. So someone sits there for example for a month, a few weeks or up to three months and then flows through. So you need a different amount of beds there than in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mrs. Agema, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u90	Well, then, my second interruption. When my grandfather was alive, I visited him when he was temporarily staying in a nursing home. You could have done that in a nursing home. If you stop funding those places, those places will go away. There are now about 17,500 and probably less, while there were 78,000. So there's over 60,000 missing now. On the other hand, we see this huge need emerging from the new instrument of the first-line residences. If you only have 3,250 seats, my question to the Minister is how do you know that's enough? We're getting those messages, and we've seen that market scan. The reports continue to come about overcrowded first-line places, about people who can't turn up and about being on the escape lane with elderly people in an ambulance. So how does the Minister know that this is enough? Or is it ten times too little? It's so little concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u91	That's what I wanted to know. That's why I had that market scan done. That market scan shows that the pressure is high. So they don't say, "Oh, Minister, go to sleep quietly, no problem at all." No, they say the pressure is high, it will only grow, so you need to take action. At the same time, they have looked at the first-line beds and linked them back to us: there is more room for first-line beds and what we have been able to investigate are sufficiently bought in and there is enough space. I believe that if there is not enough room, you have to put money in it, but first you have to establish whether or not it is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u92	I think that conclusion is that it is enough, about all the emergency services, but not about the first-line quarters. In fact, I think it is a very strange situation that we do not know whether this figure is sufficient in concrete terms or not. It sounds like very little compared to the situation at the beginning of 2013. As I said in the first part of this second interruption, I visited my grandfather twice when he was temporarily admitted to a nursing home. That's how it was then. That possibility, that option is no longer there. Then the number of 3,250 places comes across as very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u93	Those first-line beds are in a lot of different places. Like many of you, I watch a lot. I see that in one region one has first-line beds under the direction of the general practitioner in the regional hospital or the small neighborhood hospital. I see that there are also first-line beds in nursing homes elsewhere. So in the region one is looking for one's own solution, where one thinks it is best. If you go to the Sionsberg, you can see that there are first-line beds there, as part of the emergency room. In this context, Mrs Ellemeet asked whether this could not be more structural. Apparently that was chosen in Friesland. But I also know about first-line beds in nursing homes. That's exactly the point, you have to do customization, but it has to be in order in every region. I am not saying that it is sufficiently in order in every region. There is still a lot of work to be done, because otherwise I would not be freeing up those budgets to fund additional effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u94	I agree with what the Minister says; it is important to deliver tailor-made work. At the same time, I'm all getting signals from the field that there's still a lot of uncertainty around that first-line residence. I hear from large suppliers that they are already up against ceilings and that there is indeed a great deal of diversity. I hear from insurers that there is still very little clarity about the use of respite beds or first-line residence and that this is often used interchangeably. So there's still some things to clear up. Hence my question to the Minister as to whether it would not be desirable to take out exactly that first-line residence and do a separate impact study to look at that diversity. Customization is good, but what are the good examples? Where does it go wrong? Where are we missing an overview? What questions do we have? What are the possibilities for further development?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u95	So that's all set in motion. Of course, we are not having this debate for the first time. I think this is the third debate in the process with the Chamber since last year. There's been an incredible amount of work going on. I will take into account the last things that have been put in motion, which I would list here, in the next progress report. But at some point you have to be careful not to get some kind of ADHD policy. We've got a lot going on. Let's see what that gets out of there. We have the signals you have, too. The first-line beds are used for all kinds of patients, including patients who are waiting for an Wlz indication or patients who are eligible for recess care under the Wmo, as you just said. Those beds are used for all kinds of things. From the very beginning, from the moment that the first-line residence has gone to the Health Insurance Act, we have merely updated it, because we think this is a very important reception and intermediary, which must be robust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u96	It is very good that a lot has been set in motion, but that does not prevent the current market scan from giving too little insight into the developments surrounding the first-line residence. It's nice that everything happens in practice, but we do want to know what's going on. What's the question now? Where else is it going wrong? Initiatives are good, but ultimately it is important for us as a Chamber to know where we stand with regard to the first-line residence, which is so important, and what the desires are for further enlargement or adaptation, where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u97	The Dutch Healthcare Authority did a scan and wrote down findings. She has done research and seen that the first-line residence is mainly used by the elderly. More than 76% are 75 years of age or older. The NZa has seen where the first-line resident patients come from. Are they referred to by the GP, are they coming in directly or are they coming out of the emergency room? That's what it says. She's done a good research, and I think you should just repeat that to see what development is like. It's not like we don't know anything. We do know. I would also like to use the first-line beds for all kinds of situations. I would not like to narrow it down so much that they are only available for one group. I think it's good that if you're waiting for a Wlz indication, you can go somewhere. That's what those beds are for. So we must also make them available to various groups. This market scan has provided all kinds of insights. We are on top of the health insurance companies, because not everything is well arranged there. I think you should just repeat the investigation. Mr. Chairman. The NZa calls for a return protocol. Mrs Agema says it is a disgrace, because people with a broken hip are then sent from the cabinet to the wall. But of course, that's not how the protocol works. The protocol is about self-directors who, without having an indication, without being referred to, go to the emergency room or walk in somewhere else. But when you come in with a broken hip, you just need to get medical-specialist care as soon as possible. Then you're in a good hospital. That's where it's judged how it's gonna go with a broken hip. It is important, however, that we have protocols for this, that hospitals and general practitioners make a protocol for the way in which some of the light care in emergency care can be taken by the general practitioner during the day, because many general practitioners are not open during the day. Yeah, then these people will come straight to the emergency room. That's why I agree with the NZa that you really need to make agreements on that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u98	The accessibility of the general practitioners is indeed not good. You'll be put on hold for ten minutes and then you'll find out they're often not there at all. By the way, I have a very nice doctor myself, but we hear this very often around us. But a completely different subject, namely something that surprised me very much from the market scan. The focus is very much on the elderly who keep emergency beds occupied. In the big cities, 30% of the people with minor complaints who come in are called "urbanization," but when I visit emergency services, it is really full of immigrants who refer to themselves. The whole word "allochtoon" does not appear in the market scan. Doesn't the Minister find that a little remarkable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u99	I don't think the NZa really looked at origin, where people were born or the skin color of people. She has simply looked at whether pressure is being put on an emergency service where people should actually go to a general practitioner's office. That's a phenomenon we've known for a long time. That is also why we very often open general practitioners' posts next to the emergency services. This way, people can also go directly to the right place. I am not surprised that the NZa has not put time and energy into the question of the background of the people who call for emergency aid, but that it has put energy into the question of how we can ensure that the right patient comes to the right place. I agree with Mrs Agema that there is apparently less knowledge in some groups about where to go than in other groups. People run to emergency care because it might be the way to get care in other countries. So we need to make sure that there is much more knowledge about where they can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u100	I would like to say to the Minister that the latter should also be appointed. I have a whole other concern about the emergency services. They've become fortresses. I had to go into surgery twice last summer. So you're gonna end up in the emergency room. I've also been in the emergency room four times because of family circumstances. Fortunately, that wasn't because of circumstances in my family, but okay. They've become fortresses. You won't even get in there. The aggression at the emergency services seems to have increased so much. People just claim care. They go there and demand immediate care. They're threatening this place. To what extent does that actually put pressure on those emergency services?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u101	Yes, that puts pressure on the emergency services. Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned it. Why don't you ride with the ambulance, hang out with paramedics for a while? And what do you hear, what's the biggest complaint? That they can drive all the time for people who are doped up or drunk, and that they are incredibly fed up with it. We have already thought about how we could solve this. But it's a fact. That's what I hear during my work visits. You can walk me to the emergency room for a night. I agree with Mrs Agema that the E.R. is secure. So we have to take good care of the staff. I also think it's good that you can't just storm in there, but that there's a lock to see what you're doing there and whether you actually hear there. The use of alcohol and drugs is a social problem for which we must find solutions. I am not denying even more, I confirm that this puts pressure on ambulances and emergency services, but in one area more than in the other. It also depends on where you have your hospital. That's right. Mrs Ellemeet is making a proposal. It proposes the creation of a special emergency service for care of the elderly. I really appreciate her coming up with suggestions. That's good. Then you can debate that and it also brings you ideas. However, if you look at the occupation of emergency services, it does not seem to me to be a solution in itself. We must be able to manage emergency aid everywhere, but there is a shortage of nurses, a shortage of staff. So let us keep that together. What I do think is important, and what I shall dive into, is to say to Mrs Ellemeet, to what extent geriatric knowledge is present in the emergency services. I or my successor will also return to this suggestion at the first feedback on this dossier. If you look at the population of emergency services, the staff shortage is a very serious problem. Vlietland is closed for that reason, at least not fully open continuously. That does not seem to me to be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u102	The lack of such knowledge is often a problem. That's why the elderly are being sent into the hospital. But there may also be a wrong motive behind it, in the sense that it may be important to send someone to the hospital, which is not in the interests of the patient. Does the Minister agree with me that it might be interesting to link emergency care to nursing homes, to have them closer to the target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u103	I mentioned the Sionsberg. I've been there myself. In that hospital there are first-line beds, but in the Frisian context it's not that crazy to put that together. It may well be that in the Amsterdam context it is a completely different situation. That's why I'm pleading for customization. Suppose there's a local hospital somewhere with plenty of space. Then the question is, where are you gonna put those first-line beds? I can imagine that small hospitals in other parts of the country, looking for a new right of existence and seeking to strengthen and strengthen that right of existence in the care field, which includes first-line beds. I think that's a good option, but it's an option. It's not for everyone. I promised I'd look at the knowledge and skill first. I'd like to keep things bundled, too. I'm joining the partnership. In health care, it is extremely important that you work together, especially since the financial flows can sometimes be different. I am thinking of municipalities, health insurance companies and health offices. So there is a variety of jars. I also mention the Wlz in that regard. It is therefore important that you speak with each other on a national level. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands and the VNG are talking about a cooperation agenda, including in relation to older people and young people. There is a relationship with the Secretary of State's area. I also mention the Health Insurance Act. So it's incredibly important that that contact takes place at national level. But it also has to be done at local level, because there too you run into things and there too you have to arrange things with each other. Local and regional agreements on care are needed, e.g. care for vulnerable elderly people. This is also included in the agreement on general care and multidisciplinary care. If you look at the experimental article, you can see that barriers are more common in actual cooperation than in the law, and that it is agreed with insurers and municipalities that they report it when they encounter legal boundaries. We have, as you may know, a practice team at VWS. Suppose there are developments in your local situation that you say it's very important that this happens, but there's a law or a rule in the way. Then we'll have a practice team. That can look at that. The team now has a lot of experience in different cities and areas. One can look at such a situation. I can tell you that it's usually not so much a law or a rule that gets in the way, and that it can usually just be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u104	Sometimes it's not about laws and rules, but it's about the will to work together. But that's not the case in all cases. You hear from the field that it often takes a very long time for permission to work together. Before you're through the innovation rule, you'll be a year away. So that is just a problem that needs to be solved at national level. I also hear insurers say, for example, that I have a greater, cross-domain interest in helping those older people, but then I get whistled back. They say: I am also flogged back if, for example, I want to contribute to better care support, which is ultimately in the interests of me as an insurer because it prevents me from using care. So it is not yet the case that this experimental space is sufficient and is also really focused on cross-domain cooperation, in which parties make a plan together and implement it. In these laws and regulations too, therefore, we need to create even more room to really get this cooperation off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u105	Let's take a look at that scan and what we're running into. Then we can have a rule reflex. We can always say: we have to look at the rules and they have to be different. But there can be so much that does not happen, even with this problem. I've sat at the table several times in the region. All the parties would be at the table. That's where people find each other so bad. Look at how it's going at ROAZ. In fact, only a year ago, ROAZ began to feel a little responsible for what is happening in that region, and for what is open and what is not. It is then discovered that there is no point in stealing emergency nurses from each other. Because yes, that way one emergency department first has a problem and then another. So there really is so much to improve. So that's what the market scan shows. I think that this really needs to be done. We have an experimental article. We have a practice team. That could be a phone call. If we find with those people in the region that a rule really needs to be changed, then we will have to look at it. I've already reported that. We must have concrete situations, not that general one. I just want to hear: here we want this, but we can't. Then we'll come over and we'll say, "Okay." I can tell you that I have very little, actually no rules changed, because it is often possible in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u106	It has to change in practice. That's the point. I hear that there are all parties in one place that really want that cooperation, but that it does not come about. Then we will have to look not at more rules, but at more rules. So we need to look at more freedom, more space to work together and more space for experimentation. GroenLinks is therefore about getting rid of these rules and seeing how we set up this cooperation without rules and ensure that something really good is done in practice. You don't see enough of that in practice right now. Sometimes it's because of a lack of knowledge of each other. What are we gonna do? But it's not just about that. It is also the poachiness and lack of space that we offer, in all those laws and with all those bulkheads we have created. So I think it's too easy just to point to the field. We also need to look at what the government can do to facilitate this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u107	That's why we have a field team. Report your specific situation there. They'll check it out. Just for the record, I don't think it's so important that those rules stick. But I've started 26 experiments to refinance the first line. 26 experiments, in which the parties said: there is legislation and regulation that stands in the way. Not one stood in the way of laws and regulations! What did it get you? So far, disappointingly little. Sometimes really beautiful things have been done, but it sticks in practice very often. An inspiring leader is leaving. Why don't you take a look at those experiments? I'd really like to invite you. And if anything gets in the way, there's an open window with us: field teams. We're here to watch. If anything gets in the way, I think we should look at that. We will. Really. But I think we should look at how much more can now be achieved and how people can find each other better. But also the NZa has offered: if there is funding in the way, report it to us, then we remove it. So I would say: sign up concrete things with us and the NZa. Then Mrs. Kooiman. He says: can there not be a ban on the closure of aid posts? I have about a continuous correspondence about this with the SP Group. The SP Group asks me, I think once a week, this question, to which I answer once a week. The answer cannot be too great a surprise, namely: we have agreed a 45-minute standard in the Netherlands, which is not based on any scientific justification. Our ambulances have gotten much better. That standard used to be based on medical arguments, but it's not at all anymore. I've kept that standard up. Why? Because I think we should have a good distribution in the Netherlands of the emergency services. I do not think we can have that we say in rural areas: okay, we have such good ambulances, that mail can close. So that's why we kept that standard up. That's our criterion. That's the accessibility criterion. Furthermore, hospitals with their surroundings, with insurers, must maintain and set up a good network of emergency care and general practitioners. Where this 45-minute standard is at risk, I, as a minister, have a clear duty to ensure that it does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u108	Despite the ongoing correspondence, Mrs Kooiman now has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u109	Yeah, 'cause we're gonna keep going until we hear yes. The Minister points out that it is also important that everyone, the population itself, agrees with the decision-making process on, for example, a regional hospital. In Hengelo the E.R. post may be closed. The whole population in rebellion, including the doctors. Then I wonder where this minister stays in her performance. Because it's very important that we keep care close, that it doesn't depend on a 45-minute standard, but that we make sure that people aren't moved from regional hospital to regional hospital as postal packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u110	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yeah, but not at all costs. Because that care must be of high quality. I am not going to keep ERs open where there are not certain field standards that we have agreed with each other about quality, the presence of certain doctors, the presence of certain specialties. Because if there aren't, as a patient, I'm going to an E.R. post and I think I'm gonna get good quality care there, but it's not there. That's why it's not so simple, I think you should discuss with each other what the quality standards are. Can we meet that? And there are E.R.s where maybe a maximum of three people come by a night. Then it is not surprising that you are talking in the region about whether this is a good way of keeping our people working. Sometimes they sit around all night waiting for nothing. Is it not a good idea, then, to see how we can organise this more efficiently and therefore also more qualitatively? So you can't say in general: everything has to stay open. I think there should be a good network of high-quality E.R.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u112	That's the problem. Because that is what this minister is taking away from various regions. At least she's standing by and watching. May I at least remind the Minister of the empirical research carried out by TU Delft, in which, among others, Mr Blank and Mr Van Hulst indicate that concentration of emergency services is a very bad decision? Eventually more savings will have to be made and it would be much wiser for care, its quality and also the wallet if we just keep that care close.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u113	There's got to be some kind of care nearby, too. That's why we have that 45-minute standard. That's what we're sticking to. But if the situation arises that, for example, you do not have enough nurses to leave your emergency room open, then you have to talk to each other. If at some point there are not enough doctors who can keep something open 24/7, then you have to talk to each other. I'm talking about staff, but there could be more reason. That's exactly why I never followed the Health Council's advice that every emergency aid should have eight gate specialties. At the time, I did not accept this for just one reason, namely because I believe that a regional hospital in the periphery should also be able to keep emergency aid open. But there must be a number of criteria. You have to be able to man up, man up, and the care must meet a number of quality requirements. So I'm not saying in general that we're stopping when it comes to closing emergency services, but I do think you need to talk a lot more to your people if you're planning something like that. That is something that needs to be improved, as the Chamber points out. Explain to me why you're actually doing that. Don't go out of your hospital and decide a little bit. Talk to your GPs, your district nurses, your obstetricians and your population. We've done a whole tour of the Netherlands, especially our Director-General, to say: boys, this isn't going to be like before; you have to talk to your people, there must be an exchange of arguments and you have to explain why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u114	I give the floor to Mrs Kooiman for her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u115	Cheap turns out to be expensive. There are several investigations, but the Minister doesn't even go into that. Let me ask you another question. The Minister also suggests that there should be sufficient staff. Now there is often a shortage of nurses in emergency rooms. Hospitals do get the money. The Minister has made money available to them, but they do not really train enough people. Is the Minister going to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yes. Apart from making money and places available, we have had a proper discussion with the sector about the need for adequate training. Of course, you can all squeak incredibly loud when you don't have enough nurses, but you will also have to train them yourself. The money is there and it's cost-covering, so it just needs to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u117	But market scans show that only 1.6% more trained in recent years. The Minister himself states that there is still a big hole there. The doctors are trained, but there is still a huge shortage of those nurses. What is the Minister going to do instead of just saying: yes, that is true, that indeed needs to be done more? What concrete action is she going to take to ensure that these hospitals do the same? Because the money isn't spent on those training courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u118	I think that's a little short. There are 650 people in nursing school this year and there are 700 places. That's an increase. But of course it is, especially at a time when the economy attracts, that people choose what they want to be. So you will not only have to train the new potential, but you will also have to look at how to motivate other people, perhaps side-instromers. Together with Social Affairs, a whole process has been set up to train in regions. Under the leadership of Doekle Terpstra, a whole process has been set up to link the education, hospital and nursing home in the region, so that they are trained for what is actually needed. So you can't say that we've only been watching a little bit from a distance where the ship is stranded. There have been many actions in this area. I'm coming to the delivery of nurses. I have already said that the approach chosen is an additional source of influx. In 2015, 200 emergency nurses started their training. In 2016, there were 243. In 2017, we expect an increase of 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u119	I have an order question. I'm about to have a debate on asylum and migration. My colleague Anne Kuik is waiting for the answer to two questions I have asked. But could the Minister answer my question about simplifying the opening of a dbc geriatric rehabilitation care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u120	The question is whether the Minister could perhaps bring forward the answer to the question put by Mrs Keijzer, because Mrs Keijzer will have to leave the sitting in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u121	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Keijzer's question. I must say that on the question of who opens a dbc there is a somewhat broader debate. We actually had the same debate on the ggz not so long ago. I will ask the NZa to see whether this should be changed in accordance with Mrs Keijzer's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u122	When can the Minister inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u123	I will take that into account in the next report on acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u124	And when is it coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u125	That's tricky. In life and well-being, I'm not the one who's gonna send that. We're in September now. I can imagine that a first update will follow at least before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u127	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kooiman asked: what is the minister doing at the patient stop in the ggz? I have to say that, in the ggz-de-sac that goes through this debate a little bit, there are waiting times, especially for people with a serious psychiatric condition. I find that unacceptable. I find it unacceptable that we have a waiting list when every year about 280 million, against the 300 million, remain on the shelf. So the money's here. There are two responsibilities. The primary responsibility is that of the healthcare provider. It cannot be that there are large healthcare providers in parts of the Netherlands where there are no other healthcare providers who say that they no longer take people in. It's called significant market power. That is unacceptable and unacceptable. I also find it incredibly annoying, more than that, that these things are constantly being fought over the back of the patient in the media with threats like "if I don't get my way, I close it every once in a while" and "if I don't get my way, I set up a patient stop." That's not how we do it. At the same time, the health insurance provider has a duty of care. So the insurer can't say here either: yes, I bought care in Lutjebroek somewhere. It's not like that. So both insurers and providers can't keep playing this game like this. The NZa has also indicated to call everyone who does this, because this is not possible. I totally agree with that. By the way, Emergis' patient stop is gone, I have just been notified by a note. But this goes beyond the patient stop at Emergis. We are moving slowly but surely towards November and, damn it, every time it is the same song towards November: in the negotiation of contracts we get the same overstretched coverage. The NZa has indicated that it does not accept this and that, if this happens, it will summon both parties to join her on the mat. That's what I'm doing. Mrs Dijkstra says that cooperation and coordination are needed. That's exactly what it takes, but it's also very difficult. It's really harder than spending extra money. Changing culture and working methods is really very difficult. It's so complex. If you dive in and sit down, it's really hard. Let's not pretend you can change it all with one stone on the table. I have said that we must have one point of contact for each region by 1 September. This has been achieved in more than half of the regions, not 100%. So we are constantly holding up the pressure. In those regions where there is not yet a single point of contact, the insurer must be called. This also increases the pressure on the insurer, because it simply needs to ensure that there is a single point of contact. So I call on everyone to indicate that if people are looking for a solution for someone, they should call the insurance company. We will really keep our finger on the pulse, because it saves people as much work as that one window. That calling around is such a waste of time that we stay on top of it. The latest state of play regarding compliance with the recommendations of the scan has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mrs. Sazias reporting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u130	The Minister's talking about the counter. Because the health insurance companies would have a covering network on 1 September, the question was whether it is already there. So it's not a question of: if it isn't there, call the insurance company. What about the nationwide coverage network of counters? That was literally asked, at least by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u131	I just gave that answer. I have just said that just over half of the regions have one window. So these are not all regions: just under half of them do not have a single window. For just under half of the regions, therefore, we are holding the pressure to ensure that these regions are given a single window as soon as possible. As long as there isn't, you have to call the insurance company. It will really have to solve the problem in those regions where there is no such point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u132	What's as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u133	From my position I found that this is something that could be arranged in the summer. The fact that this did not happen also says something about the complexity. I have just said that this function has been organized in very different ways: one has organised that function in a nursing home, the other is an independent care hotel and the third has organised that function in a hospital. The people on those beds are different. The establishment of a single point of contact in all regions is apparently more complex than I thought, so it takes longer. As far as I am concerned, we can say in the next report that all regions have one window, but I cannot guarantee this. It is an effort obligation. We have already provided as much information as possible on progress. I would like to say to Mrs Dijkstra that the next progress report also includes the approach of regional consultations with acute concern and the progress of the approach of all the measures taken. There is still pressure, as demand continues to increase, but the measures must ensure that it is at least feasible to keep that pressure on it. That is what we must achieve together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mrs Dijkstra has a question on this. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u135	Yes, very briefly. The Minister just replied to Mrs Sazias' question that there are many different ways in which this function is organized, but also the quality is very different. My question is how to get a good picture of these differences in quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u136	The quality is different, but the quality of care must of course meet the requirements we set for the quality of care. But the people on those beds are different. They have different conditions, the care gravity is different et cetera, but that quality of care has to be delivered and that is what the inspection supervises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u137	That is enough for Mrs Dijkstra. Minister, continue your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Nijboer asked if the patients who needed this would receive emergency care. That's where I started my answer. This is the case in accordance with the Dutch Healthcare Authority's investigation. The question is where to go after the emergency, whether patients should be leashed or whether they should be sent home unjustly. We must at all times avoid sending people home unjustly. So you can also see that in the hospitals real regional transfers have been created in which this is better organized and where home help, the neighborhood nurse and the first-line beds facilities are connected. In her scan, the NZa has simply focused on: inflow, flow and outflow. Those are three points we really need to be on top of. So they have not yet been settled as we would ideally like. Where do you leave people who don't need medical-specialist care, for example patients who are totally drugged? That depends very much on what's going on with the patient. I don't think you can give a clear answer to that. If people are totally insane, there's a different situation than someone who's drunk and needs to sleep it off. Anyone who has to sleep in his sleep shouldn't be in an ambulance at all, let alone in the emergency room, unless there is an urgent need to intervene because someone has poisoned himself. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. I drove an ambulance to pick up 13-year-old girls who had been totally in a coma. They do end up in a bed. So, in general, I find this question very difficult to answer. The patient simply needs to be judged: where does he belong at that time? Is that at home, in a hospital bed or somewhere else? The intensive care is indeed incredibly expensive care, but you should only end up there if you really hear on an ic-bed. Hospitals are on top of the fact that in the ic-beds are really people who need intensive care and that other people don't occupy those beds. I've been asked if I can lift a hint of the veil about the funding of acute care. The NZa offered to watch that. The idea is that the Dutch Healthcare Authority will consider whether there is sufficient flexibility in funding, for example if parties experience obstacles together. Actually, Mrs Ellemeet asked the same question. The NZa wants to work proactively with this, so that the patients come to the right place. I have made the invitation to call the NZa where that is not the case, our practical team or our staff when it comes to funding. So the NZa is already proactively working on this. Mr Rutte asked why good examples are so little followed. I've been surprised for years. "Not invented here" is unfortunately really present in the care. Yet they are trying to learn from each other now, but it could all be better. Insight into where follow-up beds are is crucial. That's what the NZa found out. ZorgnaZorg is a great initiative. As I said last time, I hope this will be used as inspiration. The initiative has been distributed to domes and insurers in the list of good examples. Eventually, it has to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Arno Rutte has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u140	It is clear in itself and it is good that such a good example is being spread. But it's a little more than a good example. In a region, throughout the North of the Netherlands, the problem that is always mentioned throughout the Netherlands is solved. We do not know where the beds are, we do not know how to place people. It has been solved there because parties have realized something with each other in cooperative et cetera. That is now on a list as a good example, but perhaps you should organise it differently elsewhere. Is there anyone who, at some point, when this problem comes back on the table in a particular region, puts his fist on the table and says: everything is fine, but there are solutions, get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u141	The insurers are in charge of this; they have to solve this. The list of good examples has gone to all domes. You can say that an insurance company has to pull this off on its own, but eventually, the hospitals, home care, everyone, have to be on a leash to do this. Everyone constantly says that I have to punch my fist on the table or that someone else has to punch his fist on the table. Nor should we think that it is unwillingness of the people who work in the care sector. There's a lot of work going on in health care. It is not people's unwillingness not to do this, but it is important that people find each other and are knotted to each other. That's another reason for such a practice team. Try to tie people together. People want to, but they need to get a move in the right direction. That is what we are trying to achieve with the VWS infrastructure. That's what this project is all about. So it is important that it is implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u142	That is fine and the Minister does not always have to be angry with me, but ultimately it is about getting moving. Can I understand it in such a way that, at the moment that regions approach a practical team, this example is highlighted as one of the possible ways of resolving it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u143	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u144	The Minister says that there are sufficient solutions, but that they must be found and that the strings must be tied together. I fully agree with her, but does she think that there really need to be a national coverage of these counters, because they are the key to finding them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u146	Do you therefore agree with us that it should be more than an intention and that the insurers should organise this? That's where we'd like to see your fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u147	The insurer must organise this and depends on others. It's not a non-binding matter. In the next progress report, which will be sent to the Chamber before the end of the year, we will mention by name where it is not organised. That's generally a pretty big stick behind the door, which helps a lot more than I hit on the table. We can see who didn't get it right. I would like to say again: it is very easy to say that the insurer is all of it, but there are also providers and the flow in a hospital must really be arranged in a hospital. It's inflow, flow, outflow. In this case, the insurer plays an important role, but in the case of inflow and transit, everything must also be done. This is really something that we say should be regulated throughout the whole chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mrs. Sazias, this will be your third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u149	It's especially important to know where to go when it's flowing through and out. With all the complex matters mentioned by the Minister, it is simply a matter of bringing everything together, integrally, at one point of contact where all the different possibilities can be found. That is why we believe that national cover should be provided. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u150	I don't think there's any difference of opinion at all. I think that everyone in this Chamber thinks that there should be national coverage of the counter. That is why we are working very hard on it, and that is why we are ensuring that this coverage is provided. So that coverage simply happens, but in some regions this is more difficult than in others. Until then, it is important to call the insurer, who then organises the referral himself. Mrs Sazias also asked me what I think of the neighbourhood hospital in Amsterdam where elderly people can stay. This is a very nice initiative, where care is organised in the right place for vulnerable elderly people. The VWS Department already spoke to Bianca Neighbor last year. It then indicated that it follows her project with interest, because this is one of the first places where this care is given to vulnerable elderly people in this way. So this is what we've got in our sights. I have already indicated to Mr Van der Staaij that we see his problem. Still, I find it a little too easy to put it that way. How do we solve this? This is something we see much more in society. There was a lot of discussion a few years ago about whether you should charge patients your own contribution, if these people call an ambulance for nothing. I remember that was a very heated debate. In the end, it has not been decided, but this is a problem that many people encounter in practice. Another thing about integrated care, including mental health care with the temporary subsidy of ZonMw and Haaglanden. The Hague countries Westinde gives a good example with this comprehensive concern. More of these initiatives are being developed elsewhere in the country. The Confused Behavior Switch team has this example well on the retina and will be reporting soon. The cabinet will also look at what it can do to further spread this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u151	Do I understand that structural funding is not guaranteed? In that case, my question is: if experience is broadly positive, can we not look at a permanent way of financing in consultation with insurers? That's not how it gets between ship and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u152	I will have that looked at and I will report to the Chamber on this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u153	The Minister continues her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u154	I think I have given all the answers by now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mrs Ellemeet is now in exactly half an interruption. She's going to use that opportunity now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have not yet had a reply from the Minister to my comment that you see that people do not go from the Health Insurance Act to the Long-Term Care Act if, given the circumstances, they actually have to go there for a full package for home, because of that own contribution. I'd like another comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u157	The Secretary of State will answer as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u158	So this is in the response of the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions that have been put to her. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions that lie in his field. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked that concern the policy regarding the elderly and the Long-term Care Act. That is right, because the number of older people in our society is increasing rapidly. Since 1980, the number of people over 80 has more than doubled. There are now 735,000 Dutch over 80 years old and that number will increase. This will, of course, have consequences for the way in which we generally have to take care of the elderly, not only in nursing homes, but also in the ER, in the general practitioner, in the neighbourhood care and in the nursing homes. I think you can see in general that the sector is setting itself up on that. The questions we are discussing today are partly related to this. It is, of course, particularly important to ensure that a flow to the Long-Term Care Act, if this is the case, can proceed smoothly. That is why a number of matters have been secured and settled. If an elderly person is permanently dependent on long-term care after hospitalisation, it should be able to be rapidly admitted to a Wlz provider. This means that at the exit of a hospital, the CIZ usually gives an indication after two days. This also applies to clients in a home situation in which there is a crisis. Then the recording doesn't have to wait. The CIZ then indicates within two weeks and gives an indication with retroactive effect. However, we did not think that was enough. We also want to take a broader look at whether the influx in the Wlz is okay. That's why a while back, the HHm Bureau asked to take a good look at the waiting lists. It is not just a question of whether things are going well, but also of having an active policy if people have an indication but are waiting until there is an institution that they prefer. We have asked the NZa to consider in general whether waiting lists in the care are acceptable or unacceptable and how the unacceptable waiting lists can be combated. We have asked to look at long-term care as well. The Healthcare Authority has asked all healthcare offices what they do with people who are on a waiting list but have indicated that they do not yet have to or that they are waiting for their preference. The healthcare office should not wait too, but should actively provide information and request information. The Healthcare Authority has requested improvement plans from all healthcare offices in this respect. She recently informed me that these improvement plans look good and that she has confidence in them. The Healthcare Authority will look very strongly at whether they are being properly implemented. She also informed me yesterday in a letter that she trusted the improvement plans. I shall, of course, forward that letter to the Chamber. A number of specific questions have been asked. Mrs Ellemeet has asked whether the own contribution is an obstacle. In a missionary status it is difficult to make statements about whether or not a contribution of one's own will disappear. I haven't really seen a cover proposal, either, but that might be something that's still coming. But it's also a little tricky. You can agree to ask for your own contribution to intensive care and the Long-Term Care Act, but when will you do so and when won't you? Mrs Ellemeet said, "Don't do it if it's extramural." But yes, we have a full package at home and a modular package at home. Sometimes there is also the question of bridging care. If you want this, it's hard to draw a good line. But again, the new cabinet could look at that if it wanted to. That's up to the new cabinet, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mrs. Ellemeet has half an interruption. It's starting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I get a lot of signals from the field, from insurers and other parties, that this own contribution is the reason why older people do not choose to move to the full package at home and therefore stick to the Health Insurance Act, so to speak, with all the consequences. Has this been investigated? Does the Secretary of State have eyes on this? Is this true? Are these the facts? Or am I misinformed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u162	I don't have an investigation to prove that's how it is. You do hear signals that this could be a factor. If people can live at home, we expect the health insurance provider to arrange adequate care and not say for financial reasons that he prefers not to. We must be careful that interests can also play a role in this. The philosophy is of course that you are supported at home by the municipality if you need it and that you get good care if you can stay at home. If that doesn't work anymore, we'll look at the Long-Term Care Act. There is also a possibility, whether or not as a bridge, of getting the "law on long-term care" care in a home situation. You need to see if that's effective. As long as community care can be provided, health insurers will have to ensure that it takes place. Mrs Ellemeet is right: we need to periodically consider whether there are any perverse incentives in it and whether we can do something about it. The new cabinet will have to consider the conclusions it intends to draw. Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Ellemeet have asked a number of questions on the expertise side. In the administrative agreement concluded, among other things, in the general practitioners' care, we specifically included a passage on the position of vulnerable elderly people. The question is whether there is sufficient expertise in the house and how it can be better organised. How will community care, general practitioners and health offices work together to ensure that knowledge and skills about vulnerable elderly people are very well organised? Local and regional agreements should be made on caring for vulnerable elderly people. Those are indeed part of the agreements with the first line. The same applies to community nursing. In the administrative agreement district nursing is also given attention in several ways to the relief of the E.R. The Minister said that 30 million had been made available to meet the concern. It explicitly provides for agreements to be made with health insurers, including at regional level, in order to relieve the burden on emergency care and the first-line residence. The Minister has already dealt extensively with how we look at the patient stops. We really need to prevent one party from saying that it is against the patient stop if it does not get its way or that the other party says that there is no problem because it has bought in anyway. That is precisely why the Healthcare Authority is going to look into this in the area of care where it is and will call parties to order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u163	I was somewhat disturbed by the Minister's reply and now I am also disturbed by that of the Secretary of State. We are now faced with the fact that patients are not being helped because health insurers refuse to recognise that additional help is needed. Now we can all continue to point this out with each other because, unfortunately, we now have market forces and because it is so bad that we have done so. But we're dealing with patient stops right now. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State how he is going to ensure that these new patients are helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u164	Patients need help. This means that good and sufficient care must be bought in. So it can happen that one setting is full, just to use that simple term, but not another setting. Indeed, this means that one institution can say that it would actually have wanted a different contract, but the healthcare offices also have to provide funding for the other institutions. So it's really too easy to find where a provider actually says to want to find out more that there's a shortage. That is not necessarily the case. This means that the obligation of care of health insurers or health offices, depending on what it is about, simply applies and that they must inform each other. Often that doesn't happen. We have asked the Healthcare Authority to ensure that patients and clients who are required to receive care that will indeed always receive care, perhaps not necessarily from the one provider who has a problem, but that sufficient care is bought in. The Healthcare Authority will therefore do so explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u165	It is very strange that patients cannot get the care from the provider they want because that care is organized nearby, especially when it comes to the ggz. It's weird that patients have to go all the way from one side to the other. It is not a matter of a few providers, it is a broad issue. I am told everywhere by various providers that they are dealing with more patients and with more complex care that is not being reimbursed. So what's the Secretary of State gonna do now? There are patient stops now. A little pointing to the NZa and waiting for those talks to be over is not enough for me, because this Secretary of State is actually system responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u166	Where patients and clients need to be helped, this should be done and healthcare insurers and healthcare providers will have to make appropriate arrangements with each other. If they fly each other in their hair for improper reasons, they should be monitored and addressed. Mrs Kooiman is asking another question, namely whether you can do otherwise. As she knows, we are experimenting with personal funding that means that we are not going to budget but that institutions get money when patients choose them. Experiments are now under way, and the new cabinet can look at the results and whether this is a better system for distributing the money. We've talked about that before. This sounds attractive, but it also means that there is uncertainty for existing healthcare institutions that are not pre-insured with their budget. So it will be a little between two different pros and cons, but at the same time Mrs Kooiman is absolutely right in saying that there is now a duty of care and that patients need care when they need it. We must ensure that this is done and that good agreements are made on this matter. That is why we have also set up the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u167	I see the Secretary of State is done answering the question. I'm looking at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I would like to inform the House that the aim was to conclude this debate at 12.15 p.m. That didn't work. So I suggest that we do not allow any more interruptions, other than an urgent, enlightening question about any motions that may be tabled. In the second term, Mrs Agema will speak on behalf of the PVV for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr. Chairman. The point of order and the personal fact have been included in the Rules of Procedure, because we can fix things that are not right immediately. I'm very sorry you didn't give me a chance to do that. In reply to Mr Nijboer, I put things in a row. Our program is from August 2016. Then we had 600 million and 5.7 billion. The ActiZ report is from January 2017. The great thing is that the PvdA party programme of 15 January is and they reserve 300 million. Afterwards, the CPB did not come forward until 16 February with its transfer of EUR 2.1 billion. So we could never have included that in the election programme of August 2016. We then embraced it, of course. In Choices in Map, the Labour Party then raised 500 million. So despite the fact that the CPB had already been passed on, they did not see the need to take over the 2.1 billion. Then came the NZa and she stated, when the Secretary of State had asked her for advice, that the 435 million from the Spring Note was therefore legally required. Those are the facts in a row. I would have liked to have mentioned it at that time in order to put it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mrs Agema, thank you, your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u170	I have another motion, Mr. Chairman. You yourself said that in my second term I could return to that personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u171	Certainly, you can come back to the facts in your second term, but in order to keep things in this house orderly, we cannot continue to ping-pong about factual inaccuracies indefinitely through interruptions. You must use your second term for this at some point. You know that for the second time in a 30-member debate there is a one-minute speaking time within which a motion must be tabled. You have been able to express your factual inaccuracies towards the Labour Party. If it's a short motion, I'll allow you to file it. Mr Nijboer has been challenged to respond again. I would like to give him a brief opportunity to do so, but then this ping-pong is really over. I trust that these two parties will still speak very often in different debates in order to fight this further. A short response from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u172	I would like to thank Mrs Agema for the effort in explaining exactly how the PVV believes the funding of care works. But we have to do as well as the electorate with an election programme of an A4', where measure 8 simply states: reverse cuts in home care, care for the elderly, more hands on the bed, and 2 billion more. I note that this is not different from what I said earlier. The cabinet says there's more than 2 billion to nursing care. We need to invest in home care and in neighbourhood nurses. Child care and mental health care are a problem. Then Mrs. Agema is at the front and there's just no money reserved for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u173	My instincts were right, this is going to be a repeat of moves. Mrs Agema has been able to reply to the point made by Mr Nijboer for the second time. That's what's in the Acts now. I propose that Mrs Agema should use her spare time to read the motion so that we can actually finish this debate at some point. Mrs Agema, you have the floor for reading your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr President, next time I will be sitting in your seat and you will be standing there. I will see to it that if you are wrongly dealt with, you can rectify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mrs. Agema, you know the rules. You'll have room to file another motion. I would say count your blessings and do so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u176	Again, our election program is from August 2016...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mrs. Agema, this is really out of order. Whether you are reading your motion or you are speaking to the next speaker, you have not even had the opportunity to table a motion while you were the applicant for this debate. I'd say choose eggs for your money and submit your motion. Because, again, we can't keep ping-ponging between two parties forever. You also know the rules on how we debate here, and we are all responsible for this. If we don't stick to that, we'll be here every night until noon. You are already over your speaking time. I'll give you an opportunity to make a motion. I would suggest that you do, because I have no option but to give the floor to the next speaker, and unfortunately the PVV has not tabled a motion in this debate. So the choice is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr President, you have the floor for minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u179	That's not the point. You can now table your motion, otherwise Mrs Ellemeet will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr President, I shall not table a motion in protest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u181	Fine. Thank you for your contribution. I call Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u183	It'll have to be in one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u184	Yeah, I'm gonna do my best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the first-line residence (ELV) has been introduced for a year and a half;]] [[Whereas the first-line residence provides for a need and the demand for it is increasing;]] [[Whereas the way in which the ELV is offered is now very diverse and lacks an overview of the use of ELV;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an impact study on the good examples, quality and development possibilities of the ELV, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that care at home within the Long-Term Care Act is and is not required for the Health Insurance Act;]] [[Whereas this own contribution will delay the transition to the Long-Term Care Act and will put it at the expense of the care and support they need;]] [[calls on the Government to have an investigation into the use of care financed at home under the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an increasing number of elderly people are visiting the emergency services;]] [[noting that this is helping to increase delays in emergency services;]] [[Whereas acute care for the elderly can best be provided by elderly care specialists and geriatric nurses;]] [[Whereas single-organised acute care for the elderly will reduce pressure on emergency services;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with field parties, to launch older people's posts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-237]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-238]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr. Chairman. The Minister says: if we close a hospital, it must of course be done in consultation with the people. But she's actually saying, "We'll explain," but you've only got it to swallow. The SP doesn't stand for that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas pressure on emergency services is increasing; noting that there is a shortage of emergency nurses... Oh, sorry, Chairman, I brought the wrong motion. It's bad, isn't it? That never happens to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u186	I see that Mr Nijboer is here to help you and bring you the motion you would have liked to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u187	Yes! I'll make a second attempt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that emergency services are under pressure due to the increasing growth of patients;]] [[considers that good accessible acute care should be guaranteed at all times;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the decisions to close emergency posts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u188	Thanks to Mr Nijboer. It's about the quality of care. If you close the emergency rooms, the quality of care will of course deteriorate. Cheap is expensive. TU Delft has investigated this before, but the Minister is ignoring this. Finally. There's a treatment stop in the ggz and home care. These rulers just point to the NZa. May I point out to the directors that there is an approved motion by my colleague Marijnissen, which states: not only point to the NZa, but actually take system responsibility for itself? I want to know what the rulers are going to do to carry out that motion, especially now that there are stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. What we discussed in the first term shows how urgent it is to pay attention to the problem of acute care. It is good to hear the promises of the rulers. I am confident that the action plan will work, but we are going to follow it closely. If necessary, we will of course be back here. I also think it is very important that the first line of cooperation and reception takes a good look at quality. In this respect, too, the Minister has made commitments. GroenLinks and we have tabled a joint motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you. Mr Nijboer renounces his second term. Mrs Keijzer of the CDA Group has left the sitting for another debate. The VVD has also stated that it does not need a second term. I call Mrs Sazias on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that everyone agrees with the importance of the regional points of contact. It doesn't matter where the first-line rooms are organized. If they're there, wherever they are, they have to be findable. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is too patient with that. She wants to wait for the reports at the end of the year. If there are insurers who haven't arranged things, then she's going to take names and shams through the website. We want to take care of things differently. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the flow of vulnerable older people from emergency to follow-up care is one of the major bottlenecks in emergency care;]] [[Whereas not only national but also regionally sufficient beds should be available for first-line accommodation;]] [[Whereas, according to the Minister, only half of the coverage of regional counters has now been achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the shortest possible time, there is a window in each region to coordinate availability and findability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u192	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two rulers for the answer. I'd like to file another motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas emergency care to patients is regularly compromised by the overloading of many emergency services on weekends by people who have used excessive drink and drugs;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[consult with all interested parties to consider the measures that are effective to reduce significantly the pressure on emergency services resulting from excessive consumption of drinks and drugs;]] [[consider how to act more quickly and effectively (justly) against aggressive behaviour in emergency services;]] [[inform the Chamber of the results of the budgetary examination of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u194	Just a brief explanation. The problem is that, as the Minister pointed out, the problem is widely recognised. What has been conceived in the past period has not really worked or has not come to fruition. Therefore, the question to consider with all available knowledge how to reduce pressure and how to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you. This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. I understand that the cabinet will be able to respond immediately as soon as the motions have been distributed. The minister's already standing. I give the floor to the Minister to answer in the second term on the part of the cabinet, including the judgments on the motions tabled. That's a total of six.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Chairman. The first motion, tabled by Mrs Ellemeet, calls on the government to carry out an impact study on good examples, the quality and development possibilities of the first-line residence, and to inform the Chamber about this. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The second motion I'm judging is the motion in part No. 239 by Mrs Ellemeet. The Secretary of State will deal with motions as well. In that motion in part No. 239 the government is invited, in cooperation with field parties, to launch older people's posts. Mr President, I have indicated that I disagree with Mrs Ellemeet on this point. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 240 the Government is invited to suspend the decisions to close emergency posts. Mr President, from the debate, but also from the answers to written questions that have been put over the last seven years, it seems to me that I do not recommend this. That can't be a surprise. I think that we should not just look at the number, but that quality should be decisive here. In the motion in part No. 241, by Mrs Sazias, states that not only national but also regionally sufficient beds for primary care should be available. That makes it look like it's not. According to the NZa, the bottleneck isn't so much that the spots aren't there. And if there are bottlenecks, so far, we have always invested money. In the motion, Ms Sazias asked to ensure that, in the shortest possible time, there was a point of contact in each region to coordinate availability and findability. This is what we are incredibly committed to. I've already indicated that we are. So I think this is a really unnecessary motion. It seems that this is not a top priority. Yes, it is. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij's motion, which calls on the government to discuss what measures are effective, the faster and more effective action can be taken, and to inform the Chamber of the results. Mr President, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we have not succeeded in finding a solution in recent years. So I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State, to answer any questions that have been put to him and to rule on the motion in part No. 238 of Mr Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. The judgment on the motion in part No. Paragraph 238 of Mr Ellemeet reads as follows: I would like to make two comments. Firstly, it is stated in the recitals that the transfer to the Wlz is postponed by the contribution of older people. That's a conclusion you can't draw if it hasn't been examined. Secondly, I think we understand each other well that, if there is such an investigation, the judgment, the interpretation of the investigation and the results are to the new cabinet. With these reservations, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u199	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.15 p.m., after which the Chamber will continue its work.
