ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery, especially young people. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This weekend, a great European died: Helmut Kohl, a man who experienced the horrors of World War II. It is precisely for this reason that he was committed to a united Europe, with the aim of never more war between European states. This man was not only able to reunite Germany, but he was also the architect of the new Europe. In 2017, Europe faces major challenges. It is precisely for this reason that it is good to consider the good work of the European statesman Helmut Kohl. While one European statesman has left us, a new European statesman appears to have risen, namely the new French President Macron. Last Sunday he managed to get a strong majority with his party in the French Assemblée nationale. With its own progressive, pro-European reform agenda, the populist sound of the Front National reports is. Macron, like my party, states that the return to full sovereignty is a dangerous illusion, a false promise and a hopeless path. Macron says: sovereignty means the freedom of a population to make collective choices, for example for dealing with migratory flows and combating international terrorist threats. These include choices on climate change, digitalisation and American and Chinese economic power. Europe is the best place to act in these areas. Does the Prime Minister share this view of Macron? If so, how will the Netherlands and France follow this view of the added value of the European Union? As far as D66 is concerned, the core of a well-functioning, strong European Union is to find good solutions at European level on the major cross-border issues, namely migration flows, terrorism, climate and energy, so that there is a Europe that actually solves people's problems. I wonder what last Friday's conversation between our Prime Minister and the French President was like. What was discussed there? Where are the similarities and where are the possible differences? How will the Netherlands make optimal use of the fact that a pro-European reformer is in charge in France? I also ask this because I sometimes get the impression that our Prime Minister is still somewhat distracted towards the so-called Franco-German axis. That's traditionally an influential axis. Especially now that the sober market thinking of the British is failing, people are warning of the influence of the Franco-German axis. They are afraid of too great a step forward. Is it not possible to improve European cooperation together with Merkel and Macron, precisely because Merkel and Macron's pro-European course is quite a sensible pro-European one? That course is actually very close to our Prime Minister's pro-European course, although he may not always want to admit it with so many words in this house. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Does the Prime Minister share the view that this so-called axis looks different with a progressive reformer than with a fixed socialist in power in France? As a result, I would like to comment on the so-called Visegrád countries. After his meeting with Macron, our Prime Minister also had a discussion with the Visegrád countries in the Benelux context. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the purpose of these talks was and what the outcome was. Can the Prime Minister, for example, confirm that he has appealed to the leaders of these Member States to fail to comply with European agreements on the reception of refugees? How were the talks with the Hungary of Victor Orbán, the one who obstructs the media, opposition and human rights organisations in his country and pursues a tough migration policy, including xenophobic hate campaigns? But also the initiator of these talks, the Prime Minister of Poland, seems to be pursuing an increasingly restrictive policy with regard to the rule of law in Poland. Like Hungary, for example, Poland is going to abolish subsidies for human rights organisations and there will even be a ban on demonstrations. I am curious to hear that he or the Prime Minister has raised these painful issues in consultation with the Visegrád countries. Or does the Prime Minister see countries such as Poland and Hungary not so much as countries that endanger and violate European values, but rather as desirable partners, as a kind of brake on European action? I'll get to the Brexit. The negotiations started on Monday. That is an historic fact, although the beginning was mainly about setting the agenda and shaking hands. There hasn't been much discussion about the content. This cannot, of course, be done after the chaos caused by the elections in Great Britain. After David Cameron, Theresa May is now the one who gambled and lost by elections, although Cameron did so by issuing a referendum. As my colleague in the European Parliament has already said, it seems like a casino at the Tories in the meantime, because whether it was an attempt to permanently disable Labour or an attempt to actually get a strong Brexit negotiating mandate, it has not turned out to be a successful commitment. Attempts at strong and stable leadership proved to be rather weak and wobbly, with the result that we in Europe have no idea what we are actually negotiating with when it comes to the Brexit talks. How does the Prime Minister regard this as very important for this debate, the talks with the unstable May Government? How does he see the demands of the Irish Conservatives at the Brexit negotiating table? Does the UK's commitment to EU citizens' rights still apply to lhbti-sets, for example? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of how he thinks the negotiations will develop and what all this means for those negotiations. I really think something's changed. We have said that these elections could lead to a different situation. Then it was noted: well, that's not gonna be so bad. However, this was based on the expectation that May would achieve a large majority, but that did not happen. I'd like to get a response. Does the Prime Minister share the analysis that just now that the British themselves have become more divided, European unity is more important and more likely than ever? So how can we maximise this consensus, also in the light of the remarks I have just made about the Franco-German axis, the Visegrád countries and the other sub-coalitions within Europe? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I'll go into defense. If there is one issue for which Europe's joint development is important, then it is security and defence. It is also one of the most logical topics to do so. It is good that the cabinet attaches particular importance to strengthening the political will to deploy the EU Battlegroups. However, I do lack decisive intervention, for example in the area of joint procurement and maintenance. Didn't the election of Macron and the Brexit offer you a chance to do this? Why not, together with Germany and Belgium, really become the first priority in the field of European defence cooperation? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I'll go into migration. Partnerships with third countries are also on the agenda of this European summit. Above all, let us be clear that international conventions must be respected at all times, even when agreements are made with third countries. Last week, by the way, it became almost clear from the left to the right that nobody thinks it is a real option to make migration agreements with Libya. A plethora: my party doesn't think that's an option either. However, I am now reading in the European Commission's progress report last week that Libya is a key partner in managing migratory flows on the Central Mediterranean route. I read that a package of 90 million has been adopted, including to improve migration management. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this is purely to improve the reception and protection of migrants there and that this money only goes to aid organisations and not to the Libyan government, any of the three? Can the Prime Minister explicitly confirm that this money does not go in any way to detention centres where migrants are detained and sometimes even tortured? I'd like a clear and clear response. I also read a positive story about training the Libyan Coast Guard for "Search and Rescue" activities. I do not think that this is entirely consistent with the reports that the Libyan Coast Guard is also trying to intercept boats with refugees as NGOs trying to save them. What about that incident? My group has put questions to both the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but has not yet received an answer. So I'm just gonna ask the Prime Minister. Finally, we must focus on a fully-fledged and effective European asylum and migration system. As far as we are concerned, this must be the first priority. Unfortunately, we see that the European Council is slow when it comes to the important elements of this system, such as the Reception Directive and the Dublin reform. What is the Prime Minister going to do to speed that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The European Union is in the highest gear. France wants to move forward with full force and Germany is perhaps looking forward to the elections, but will undoubtedly join Paris, whatever the outcome. The Brexit has many disadvantages, but it also gives scope and forces us to redefine what we have often come to take for granted: the European Union's right to exist and the numerous benefits of European cooperation. Then, of course, there are the external landslides: Russia's increased aggression, the threat of terror and the undermining by the new US President of what was our most stable alliance for as long as it was. Who would have thought that, in order to save the Paris climate agreements now that the US has dropped out, we would see our new ally in China? It is good that, in the midst of all this turbulence, the European Union is stimulating the debate on the future of Europe. There was a White Paper with five scenarios, from which Member States still have the choice, and more recently four highly reading reflection and discussion papers were published. In short, there is plenty to discuss and enough to do. There is no time to lose, because if the French-German engine really gets on steam in September, the Dutch engine will have to be tuned very precisely to stay in the race. If Paris and Berlin go the same way and London no longer gets in the way, it goes fast. In December the Council will have to take official decisions, but we know that the cards will have to be shaken in the months ahead. I understand that the Prime Minister would like to see a new cabinet as soon as possible. He operates in the European Union at this crucial stage a bit with his hands behind his back. But there is no reason to sit still in the meantime. I make three concrete proposals to the Prime Minister. First of all... Let the Netherlands, together with the other Member States, implement what already exists in our country, for example the translation of the agreements of the Paris climate agreement into concrete policies. "The Council will reaffirm that the EU is committed to full implementation of the Paris Agreement," writes the Cabinet in the annotation to the agenda. That seems to me to be a step in the right direction at best and not good enough at all. Why is that even necessary? Is there any doubt about that commitment? My group would like the Netherlands to commit itself to the implementation of the Paris agreements, which go beyond the European Union's previous commitment. I'd like to get a response. A second suggestion. It would be a good idea for the cabinet to clarify its position in the EU on crucial issues. Take migration. The number of irregular migrants crossing the Mediterranean is increasing. Unfortunately, the same applies to the number of drowning deaths. In Brussels, the Netherlands underlines the need for a commitment along the entire migration route. That seems very sensible to me, but what does it mean in concrete terms? I quote: 'In particular, the Netherlands will advocate stepping up coordinated efforts in third countries to achieve real partnerships', as stated in the explanatory statement on the agenda. I don't think you should blame me, Mr President, but I have no idea what's written here. Perhaps the Prime Minister could be more concrete in this debate. My third suggestion is that the cabinet should also promote a fundamental debate in the Netherlands on the future of the EU, the scenarios of Juncker, the reflection papers. When presenting the scenarios, the Commission announced that it would organise debates in European cities together with the European Parliament and the Member States that wish to do so. National parliaments, local and regional authorities and civil society would also be involved. I haven't heard from him since. Can the Prime Minister ask this again in Brussels and would he like to encourage such a debate to take place in the Netherlands? I like to hear it. Transparency is crucial for those who want support for cooperation in Europe. Finally, I have some topical questions about this. The outgoing Prime Minister is meeting colleagues this week to discuss the direction the European Union is taking. What was the Prime Minister's commitment to his meeting in Warsaw last Monday? And what is his commitment this afternoon in The Hague? According to the annotation on the agenda, he then talks about the future of Europe and other "Europe-political" issues. I didn't know "Europe politics" was already a noun. Speaking of that makes sense to me, but it also makes me curious. What does the Prime Minister say there? What's he hearing? What's he betting on? Last time, the Prime Minister said about the mini-top with Ireland and Denmark: the meeting is the message. Which message should we read in this new meeting? I'd like to hear more about that. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of his generous commitment to our previous debate. We will try to give even greater openness in the following reports, he said. I'm anxious to hear the answer. I read this week that the Prime Minister, wised by damage and shame, would no longer have taught Greece the lesson that taking clear positions can only lead to disappointment. If that is the case, then we will hear little more from this cabinet and still move along with our major economic partners in December. I am afraid that our Prime Minister will defend the EU's future plans in the Dutch tradition in a frugal way: yes, I'm sorry, it's not really that big a deal, and more Europe is not at all, but yes, it had to be Brussels and the others wanted it; we did arrange a shortcut, by the way. I'd like to see it different. I'm not a fan of quietly integrating; I'm a fan of further integration, but I'm not a fan of quietly integrating. Last year we learned this in the Netherlands from the Ukraine referendum, as we should have learned from the referendum on the European Constitution in 2005. If you operate half-heartedly and a little bit anxiously and don't say what it is, because you're afraid of your voter, it undermines the very support you were trying to protect so cramped. Is this also what the Prime Minister learned from the Ukraine referendum and perhaps also from the British people's decision to leave the EU? Or did he take any other lessons? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr Baudet, I see you standing at the interrupting microphone, but are you taking part in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	If you want to interrupt, you are supposed to participate in the debate. Otherwise, it's not entirely fair that you can ask others, when you can't do it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to say something, but I have written it down in nine books and said it twenty times already. But I would like to say the same things I think about the EU in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	I understand, but it would be wise for you to sign up for this debate as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	Fine. Then I'll add you to the list. Then questions can also be asked to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	What I hear Mr Van Ojik say is very interesting. He says: the resistance of the population to the EU is actually due to the half-heartedness with which the EU is defended. In other words, if we were to defend the EU with more enthusiasm, there would be less resistance to it. Is that what he thinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think you can at least learn. We have, of course, already had the necessary experience with the Ukraine referendum, with the European Constitution and in the UK with the Brexit. I think you can learn that if you avoid the debate, that does not necessarily lead to a well-informed choice. Of course, I cannot say that if people do, they would automatically all opt for my line of European integration. In any case, I do not think it is right to run away from that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I can see that. However, I had a strong impression that you suggested "that we have learned from what happens when." I'm thinking the exact opposite. I think that if one were to be honest about what the EU really is, namely a project to make Europe a federal state, almost everyone would not want it anymore. The Monnet method, which is improperly centralising, through the spill-over effect, is the only way the EU can function. The EU can only operate in the shadows, just like Batman so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think we can conclude that Mr Baudet and I agree on the need to be honest about what you have for Europe and what Europe really is. We differ on what would happen if you were honest. Furthermore, honesty commands us to say that neither of us knows for sure. Mr Baudet thinks that people would turn away from the EU massively, and I think that people will then see the benefits of the EU and turn to them massively. We both don't know it, but we agree on the fact that you need to discuss it honestly and openly. My plea is to do so in the coming months, before it's too late. And maybe we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Right. We agree with our rejection of the line taken by our Prime Minister, who does not do so, who does not honestly say what the consequences of the proposed measures are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	In my speech, I made three suggestions which allow the Prime Minister to conduct this debate openly and freely, even if he is outgoing. I hope he accepts those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	Do you not think that the problem is that the majority of the Chamber does not deal with what the people want, namely no to the European Constitution and no to an association treaty against Ukraine? I can only hear you pleading for more European integration, but that is the opposite of what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	I have tried to argue that a development is currently taking place in Europe, strengthened by the French elections and perhaps by the Brexit, which I expect will speed up the process of European integration. The Netherlands will have to relate to this. I assume that we agree with each other on this, although we think differently about the conclusion. I think that we will have to have a social debate on this. I also think, of course, that we, as representatives of the people and the cabinet, should take account of the views of the Dutch people. That doesn't divide us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	Of course, we must have a debate on this, but the Dutch people have already spoken clearly twice about the direction they want for the Netherlands in relation to the European Union. My suggestion would be: do something with that instead of pleading for further EU integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	We are now perhaps going to repeat the debate on how the cabinet finally interpreted the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. Mrs Maeijer knows that my group has finally agreed to this on the basis of the conviction that the cabinet has tried to take account of the views of the Dutch people on a number of points. I know that the PVV feels differently, but this was the attitude of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think you completed your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven recalled the death of Helmut Kohl. We cannot philosophize about the future of the EU if we do not make history come true. In the ten-point plan of November 1989, Helmut Kohl stated that German unity and European unification are two sides of the same coin. In Germany, he is called "the Kanzler der Einheit" and in Europe, "the largest European." He was a German European. In the face of German unification, he sacrificed the Deutsche Mark, the symbol of German economic strength. That was a peace offering to France. By the way, nobody was ready for the euro at that time. Both steps, the unification and the euro, were long considered impossible, but they were nevertheless taken. Now we are perhaps on the eve of a second generation of the Franco-German axis, a new European engine block, through the Brexit and the election of young President Macron. What will that lead to, we ask. Is it a step towards further European integration and political union? I'd like to hear an answer from the Prime Minister. What concessions will Merkel make to France after the German elections, for example in the area of budgetary rules? Now the European Commission is coming up with plans for a European Finance Minister, a euro minister of finance, a euro area budget, a euro deposit guarantee scheme, eurobonds and even the euro for all 27 EU countries in the long term. I would like to hear a view from the Prime Minister on these plans. Will there be more money from northern Europe to southern Europe if it is up to the European Commission? We also fear that under Macron the state may still face the street. The question is, of course, whether this is an opportunity or a threat for the Netherlands. The Netherlands has felt since President Trump's election that the connection with the United States is at least under pressure. Now that the UK is also saying goodbye to the EU, we have to conclude that the Netherlands is partly losing two historical allies. I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. The perspective is twisted by this. Are we well prepared for this new situation? What is the strategy for this new future? Who are our new partners? And can we find enough common ground with these countries to not easily be played apart by Germany and France? That's two questions. Last week, the Prime Minister spoke with French President Macron. And Monday last. The leaders of the Benelux countries in Warsaw spoke with the four Visegrád countries. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister his impression of these talks, in particular the talks with Macron and the Visegrád countries. In what essential areas do our interests overlap with those of France and the Visegrád countries, and where are there major differences of opinion? We would also like to know what his expectations are for this evening's meeting of the Benelux countries with the three Baltic States and the three Scandinavian countries. We particularly appreciate the collaboration in the Benelux context. Would the Prime Minister comment on his view of the position of these three countries in the European Union? We've discussed this before. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that it is time for a new initiative to bring together the forces of these three countries? It concerns three of the six founders of the original EEC. The size of the Benelux's combined economy is similar to that of Spain. The Benelux countries should not be so modest and manifest themselves much more strongly, also in front of the new Franco-German spirit. If the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg are on the same page, we ask the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister, by the way, feel constrained by his missionary status to take the necessary initiatives on European dossiers that lie ahead? The Franco-German train does not wait for the Netherlands and Belgium. We are considering tabling a motion on the strengthening of Benelux cooperation in the second term. The 50PLUS Group welcomes the search for innovation in Europe, but with the following principles: no further enlargement, no superstate, reform within existing frameworks and a good look at what can be better, more efficient and perhaps even cheaper. Does the Prime Minister agree with these principles? Another important issue on the agenda of the European Council is, of course, migration. Last week, a new report of the Partnership Framework on Migration was published, which will be discussed at the summit. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on the outcome of this report. What initiatives is he going to take to address the issues that this report requires to be improved? What role does he see for the Netherlands? Finally, the Brexit. Against many expectations, negotiations began on Monday, at least with the agenda. Can the Prime Minister provide information on what was discussed on Monday? And what consequences does the weakened position of the British cabinet have? The Netherlands is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	You have to finish, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. The Netherlands prefers a softer Brexit. Maybe there will be, but the chance of a hard Brexit is now of course greater. How can the Prime Minister get away with this contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	Madam President. Formally, all the Member States of the European Union are the same, but it is clear that large countries such as France and Germany have always been the decisive heavyweights within the European force field. In this sense, European integration has not put an end to the old 'concert of nations'. For smaller Member States, there was often nothing else to do but try to influence or watch the large Member States of Germany and France. For a long time the United Kingdom was the third, the more critical superpower, which kept the others somewhat in line. For the Netherlands, the United Kingdom was an important ally in many European areas. The Brexit represents an important loss, not only for England but certainly for the European Union as well. After all, who is going to stop European integration now that the EU has lost that difficult but important louse? For a moment, it seemed that the EU was only going to make its mark. The Brexit caused a great shock wave. In Brussels people feared the euro-critical populists, whoever or whatever they might be. Indeed, these phenomena revealed a sensitive reality. Not every Member State, not every European, is happy with the ever-increasing European integration. Not everyone welcomes a Union that ignores the fundamental differences between Member States in terms of geographical location, history, culture and the economy. But despite everything, even the Brexit, symbolically low point of the crisis of confidence in the EU, could not bring other ideas to the European family in Brussels. Although a White Paper has been laid down and plans have been announced to discuss the future of the EU with the people, I would like to endorse the comments made by Mr Van Ojik on this: we are hearing very little more of it. It is to be feared that this will be overruled by a higher acceleration which France and Germany would jointly want to give to the integration of the EU. Especially now that the idea exists that the wrong populism, whatever it may be, has lost in the Netherlands and in France, the EU is actually being given new impetus, as it is being shown in Brussels. The sincere concern of the SGP Group is that with the bath water the child is thrown away, that Merkel, Macron, Juncker and Tusk claim victory, without addressing the underlying dissatisfaction and carrying out fundamental reforms. At present, we see that, under the motto 'citizens want an EU that protects', it is fully integrated. We do not believe that this is the right way forward. The SGP Group has often argued that it reiterates here today that the Netherlands must now take the lead in reforming the EU in a comprehensive and realistic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	I simply agree with Mr Bishop that there is a great deal of discontent, widely shared in all European countries, about how the EU works. We certainly shouldn't look away from that. I don't think so. Mr Bishop then spoke very much about all kinds of problems and feelings and about the fact that a number of new leaders wanted to move forward with new impetus. That is indeed not the right answer. I agree. But we are also looking for a Europe that solves people's problems, aren't we? Then you'll have to talk about the content. What are the issues that Mr Bishop thinks Europe can have added value in order to increase citizens' confidence in the EU by taking steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	In my view, these are the classic policy areas on which the EU has ever started. I am thinking of environmental agreements, agricultural policy and economic agreements. I think it is important, however, in what way it is done and where you invest it precisely that the problem of migration needs to be addressed at EU level. Without going through all the policy areas, I note that the key problem facing the EU, which we, as Member States, constantly face, is where the primary responsibility lies. How can the EU have an added value over national operations? That is where the principle of subsidiarity comes in. This is systematically ignored by EU institutions. It is the Member States that are constantly calling the bell: we are doing what we ourselves can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	Why I am standing here is because I fear that Mr Bishop himself is the one, with a number of other parties, who is helping this story into the world all the time, making it supposedly true. My party is in favour of a Europe that says on a number of points: yes, the European administrative layer should have the power to find solutions to migration, climate, energy and terror, but do so, and do not do so very clearly in a number of areas. That's very concrete: sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. But I can only hear Mr Bishop say in recent years that things are going much harder and that people are not being listened to. I think we are listening to the people, but on certain issues we have to have the courage to make choices. Would the SGP want to go into that more concretely, rather than always just keeping the story that it is moving too fast and that it is not being listened to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	This is a classic example of shoot the messenger. We can't speak English here, but the bottom line is, shoot the messenger. You name the problem as a messenger and then you're blamed for naming the problem. That's a weird approach, isn't it? Look, we all know that in the EU treaties there are mechanisms that sneak out the sovereignty of countries. I am only thinking of the principle of case law according to the rule of the ever closer union. Isn't that contrary to subsidiarity? People are aware of that. Then you should not blame the people who are naming this problem for not constantly receiving the EU's applause.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Finally. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	I do not blame the people who are critical of Europe at all. That's what I started with. I blame Mr Bishop for not being clear about his criticism of the European Union and its vagueness. I would like to hear from the SGP what exactly are the areas of which you can honestly and openly say to all citizens: yes, that is what we are working on with competence at European level. Then we dare to say that, and then we do not have to say that in a number of areas, and then it is clear to the people what Europe can do and what Europe cannot do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Verhoeven, the interruptions must be...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Now give me an answer to that rather than come up with abstractions all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	Just for a second. The interruptions must be really short, because we have eleven speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	The answers should probably be brief, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	The answers, too, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	I was afraid of it. I thought I answered in addition to the guiding principle to which much comment is to be made...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Could you sit down, Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	... also mentioned a number of areas where the EU... Look, now Mr Verhoeven is not listening again! He's interfering with Mr. Van Rooijen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	You are absolutely right, Mr Bishop. I'm hanging on your lips from now on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	I accept your apology. I thought I also mentioned a number of areas where the EU has added value. It's gonna stay that way. But when new areas are being discussed over and over again, think of cooperation in the field of defence and in the social field and all that sort of thing, one should not be surprised that people in the Netherlands are distrusted and ask the question: where does the EU's hunger for power end? That's how it's interpreted. That's what I'm talking about. I think the EU should look in the mirror in this respect. The White Paper was a good start, but what about the plans to talk to the people? I am very interested in the Prime Minister's reaction in this area, because that can really lead to improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	Does Mr Bishop not understand that the European Union is incorruptible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	This is a statement. That is a firm conviction, and that is everyone's right. I am not convinced that that statement is correct. It's a premise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	It is good that the Netherlands is now investing heavily in opportunity coalitions with, for example, the northern Member States, but effectively counterweighting that Franco-German axis, as it is now emerging, calls for coalitions of at least 14 Member States. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is the Dutch cabinet prepared to take the lead in forging solid and sustainable coalitions with, among other things, the northern Member States, in order to maintain a stable counterweight to the French-German axis, so that these countries are forced to make the EU a step in the right direction? Is the cabinet prepared to help ensure the democratic self-government of the Member States in this way? In the area of refugees and migration, the Netherlands and Europe must continue to give priority to preventing people from going out to sea and drowning there. Trafficking in human beings must be tackled in a structural manner. Secondly, there is a need to ensure a high-quality reception in refugee camps. Thirdly, more perspective should be given to employment in the countries of origin through sound and effective development cooperation. Let me make one final comment. If the cabinet can and wants to guarantee full respect for human rights and international law in theory and practice, the SGP Group can continue to endorse the government's commitment to cooperation with countries of origin and transit, such as Libya, and the agreements on return to a safe third country. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	I heard Mr Bishop speak of the Franco-German axis. He said that we should counter this and that we should even form a coalition. Should we not do a few things at the same time, namely close a coalition and see if we can get to that axis and send that axis our way? Before you know it, we are doing a little calimero-like in the Netherlands, while there may be huge opportunities, especially for us, because we are the fifth economy of the European Union when the British leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	I think this is a justified remark. I do not think it is one or the other, but the moment you signal that this axis wants to shift European integration into a higher gear, you have to make sure that in the EU you can provide a sufficient counterweight to the efforts of these two dominant superpowers. Where it is possible to influence the policies and choices of those countries, you must of course always do so; I have already appointed that. In my opinion, this is an important task for Dutch diplomacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. The clock is ticking, not only for the British, but also for the Netherlands. In March 2019 the Brexit takes place: the British free and sovereign. It is only the question of where the Netherlands will stand in two years' time, what remains of our freedom and our sovereignty. The picket poles have already been beaten, because Brussels sees its chance. One proposal after the other therefore sees the light of day: deeper integration of economic and monetary union and proposals in the field of social policy and the future of European defence. President Macron is being brought in as the prodigal son and raised in the saddle as the savior of the European Union. Old coalitions are getting a new boost. Germany and France are using the Brexit to strengthen their pro-EU stance. A blueprint for deeper EU integration lies ahead. Even PvdA-EU Commissioner Timmermans had time to warn of the resurrection of that Franco-German axis between participating in an eiftar, posing with a pussyhat, warning of populism and pointing his finger at Hungary. What's happening now isn't new, because that's the way it's always going. Every problem and every crisis is milked out by Brussels and then supposedly squandered with even more European Union. The response to the euro crisis was deeper economic and monetary integration. The asylum crisis would be overcome by deepening the common European asylum policy. And the Brexit, the departure of a Member State, the dagger sting for the European Union, is being used for a new impetus towards a united Europe. What about the Netherlands? The Netherlands stands by and looks at it and eventually agrees, while this move towards more EU integration goes completely against the convincing no of the Dutch people in the referendum on the European Constitution in 2005. Where is the Prime Minister's rigorous analysis that all these crises can be traced back to the EU, that the European Union is not the solution, but the problem? Why does the Prime Minister allow the Netherlands to be messed up in a European superstate? Then I'll get to the point of migration. The Netherlands must become the boss of its own borders and not be made dependent on Brussels, Turkey or any other country. 74% of the Dutch think that the Netherlands should decide who enters our country. That is why we must close the national borders instead of giving money to a Turkish dictator; close the national borders instead of sending millions to Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Mali, Ethiopia, Libya, North Africa and what else, because what does that actually get us? The average return rate in the European Union is 26 in Nigerians. Of the 14,000 whose application for asylum was rejected in Italy last year, only 120 were expelled. For Senegal this is 9% and it is 4.8% for Mali. But half of the cabinet's letter is about return. What return? It is not surprising that migrants continue to come if they are not deported. The progress report on partnerships with third countries suggests that, in order to overcome the opposition to return and readmission, visa policy or legal migration policy can be considered. What do we mean by this, I ask the Prime Minister. Is that the withdrawal of own nationals in exchange for visa facilitation, the withdrawal of own nationals in exchange for even more legal migration opportunities? That's how we trade in one problem for another. This is pure blackmail. There is 2.8 billion in the EU trust fund for Africa, and that is not enough. More money is needed from the Member States, as can be seen in the progress report. Will the Prime Minister tell us in Brussels that they can get it back and forth, that we prefer to spend it in our own country and that we are no longer making any extra contribution? Summer's at the door. This means that once again boatloads of migrants will try to cross over to the European Union. Because as long as the message is that everyone is welcome, they will continue to try, only on another route. This year it is mainly via the Mediterranean. 75,000 migrants have already arrived in the EU via the Mediterranean this year, 65,000 of whom are in Italy. The country is heading for a new record. EU policy is a threat to our security. Last year, NCTV pointed out that IS terrorists and their supporters frequently used the large flow of refugees to enter Europe in 2016. And Secretary of State Dijkhoff recently confirmed again that it cannot be ruled out that terrorists use illegal migration flows. Once inside, so we know, everyone can move freely, including terrorists, something we have unfortunately had to experience several times. Unfortunately, the maintenance of the Schengen open border area has a higher priority for the EU and for this outgoing cabinet than the security of our citizens, just as solidarity seems to be more than security, because the Netherlands takes over good migrants from Italy and Greece. Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic show that there are other ways of doing this. They do not take over migrants at all, but are now punished and threatened with fines by Brussels. The PVV prefers a fine rather than imposed solidarity that threatens our security and our future. Europeans expect protection from their Union, says Juncker when presenting his latest set of plans for the future of European defence. Protection and security as a cover for a European defence union and a European army, because that is where it will eventually go. We all know that, because that is the ambition that has lived in Brussels for years. Just yesterday, a German top official said that an EU army is inevitable. Juncker openly admits that the creation of a European army in the future is precisely the reason for setting up a European defence fund. The Netherlands must not cooperate with this new step in the development of the European superstate. If Juncker really wants to make Europe safer, he is right to argue for the abolition of the Union. Perhaps he will be able to organise the European state funeral for that. In addition to more integration and bringing in new Member States, it is fortunately still a matter of leaving the Union somewhere in an EU capital. European integration is not irreversible, because the Brexit negotiations have begun, negotiations on the road to freedom, on the road to regaining sovereignty. But the Netherlands chooses to knowingly give up its identity, piece by piece, and thus becomes a province of Europe, just because this cabinet allows Brussels to draw power towards itself. A nexit is the only way to make the Netherlands boss of our own country, our own laws, our money and our borders, with fewer immigrants and less Islam as a result. Independence and sovereignty, that is what the Netherlands must strive for. For our inhabitants, our freedom and our future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	The PVV always hits itself very hard as the party of the people. Of course, that's fine, but I wonder what Mrs Maeijer thinks of the fact that the French people have so convincingly chosen a pro-European president.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	May I remind you, Mr Verhoeven, that Mrs Marine Le Pen has just been elected to the French Parliament? She did a hell of a job, so let's not forget that. Indeed, the French have made a choice. That's up to the French themselves. But we are talking here about the commitment of the Netherlands, about what we want with the future of the Netherlands. That is what I am talking about here, Mr Rutte's commitment to the European summit, because that is about the future of the Netherlands. Our future. For that, we must listen to the people. The people have spoken very clearly on this subject twice, at least in a referendum. In the referendum on the European Constitution, with a no to even more European integration, and in the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. I propose that this is also my suggestion to D66... that we listen to this for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Brexit, Trump, the economic crisis, the migration crisis, these are all things that show that European cooperation is in need of renewal. The agenda for the forthcoming European summit, climate, defence and migration shows that this European cooperation is also essential. My colleagues have asked a number of important and relevant questions, including about the Brexit and how the further negotiations on the Brexit will take place, the talks with Macron and the talks with the Visegrád countries. I am happy to endorse these questions with ease and without any political explanation or colour. I do have some more specific questions about migration. European countries have been working for some time to achieve a common European asylum policy. I would like the Prime Minister to tell us whether it is realistic in his view to do so when it comes to the GEAS package. We are also exploring the possibility of reaching agreements with third countries on both return and forms as we know them around the Turkey deal. How realistic are these steps and what can we expect from them in terms of progress? A number of colleagues have already asked questions about European defence cooperation and how the countries can work together. In addition, I have the following question. A number of European countries are now competing in the global market with regard to defence and procurement. How does this competition relate to achieving greater European defence cooperation? In addition, I have a number of questions about cybersecurity. As I have read in the documents and as I have also understood from a number of experts I have spoken, we want certification for products that come on the market in the context of security and cybersecurity. We are talking about ordinary household appliances, from coffee machines to refrigerators, which we have in our house. At the same time, experts say: it's nice to arrange something at the front, but it costs a lot for companies and it doesn't do anything for the course of the product, because you don't have a guarantee. Motions have already been tabled which say that producers should be made responsible for ensuring that safety is guaranteed for the rest of their lives, but that also leads to costs, especially if you only want to do so in the Netherlands. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore what we can do in a European context to make companies responsible for the safety of our devices from one to the next, without regulating it only at the front. I have a second question about cybersecurity and how we deal with it. In Delft, a brilliant scientist is working on a quantum computer that is now owned by Microsoft. So we are constantly fishing behind the net We have lots of nice innovations and we start a lot of things with nice money, also made possible by the cabinet, but at the same time we see that European countries are not able to make a fist, as America does. Why not a Silicon Valley of the European countries? I would like to draw attention to this at this European summit, because in ten years' time this issue will be very important in determining how we in the Netherlands and Europe will organise our safety and innovation and ensure our economic growth. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. I would like to compliment the cabinet on the climate. I have expressed myself clearly; I think that Trump is doomed to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. I think it is a good signal, even if it is perhaps a first step, that the Netherlands has once again been a frontrunner and has said: we are trying to deal with the gap that falls, also financially, because we think it is important that these objectives are pursued. I have one more question on this point. Is there any mention of other or more targets when it comes to achieving the Paris Agreement in relation to the loss of support from the United States? What does it mean for China's position? China shows itself to be a loyal ally but is sometimes also a rather shady ally. What does this geopolitics mean? Will these aspects be dealt with at the European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. People want the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems, such as migration, climate and security problems. We in the Netherlands also want the European Union to make trade easier, because we know that we make a large part of our living abroad. We also have our country in pretty good shape. Our public finances are in order and we are a competitive economy. We have done this without the European Union. We didn't need them for that. Many Dutch people regret that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. It is now important that we keep the damage as limited as possible and that we look for new allies with new energy. First of all, I'll come to the Brexit. Since the parliamentary elections in the United Kingdom, there has been rather chaos. That's probably not gonna help limit the damage to the Brexit. The price of the pound has dropped considerably. The purchasing power of the British is declining and production in the United Kingdom is stagnating. People aren't really prepared for what happens if there's no deal. We heard that the other day in the round table. Then the British would have to set up a customs office. They don't have the IT capability. They don't have the people for it. They don't have the space in the ports to do that either. Despite all this, the UK says no better deal than a bad deal. The question is whether the British are slowly becoming more realistic. Have they become more realistic this week? Can the Prime Minister say anything about that? What are his expectations on this point? The Brexit also means that a number of so-called agencies are being moved. One of them is the European Medicines Agency. The Netherlands is a candidate for this. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the criteria for the location will be laid down. We wholeheartedly support the cabinet in trying to get hold of this agency. What are the expectations of the cabinet? Will we be able to do that? Are the criteria designed in such a way that we benefit from them? Of course, we would have liked to have included the criteria: an international airport starting with the letters s, c and h is a requirement. I don't think this worked out, but I can't wait to see what did. I come to the European Defence Action Plan. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is still profit to be gained from defence, for example by cooperating in the purchase of equipment. There's still efficiency gains to be made. But we must be careful not to duplicate NATO or to create a European army. That is not in the documents either, but it always stays a bit above the market; that is also evident in this debate. If this European cooperation is to take place in the field of defence, we must also ensure that our companies are eligible for orders. We have to watch out for forced shopping. I would like to comment on this. The internal market is on the agenda of the European Council. There's still a lot of profit to be made. The subject is therefore on the agenda. The Netherlands wants to give another sling to that, in the right direction. What exactly is the Netherlands going to do? What are the expectations of the summit? Who are our allies in further completing the internal market? Finally, I come to our new allies. It has been said before: The Netherlands always felt comfortable in the triangle France-Germany-United Kingdom. If these three countries were to agree, we would often be able to deal with them. But now that the United Kingdom is leaving, the balance in the European Union is changing. The European Union seems to have a new dynamic. Where a number of Eurocrats were still gloomy at the beginning of the year, in Brussels I have experienced that in the last few weeks I myself experienced a kind of new joy, a feeling of: we have defeated the populists. Where we have said that Brexit is a wake-up call, this is seen by a number of people as: the Brexit is an opportunity, the European Union can move forward at full speed. The new great crook in some respects is Mr Trump, who drives a number of Eurocrats into each other's arms. For the record, I'm not saying he's a crook. All I'm saying is he's got people in each other's arms. In recent weeks, the European Commission has written reflection papers on the future of the European Union. One more is coming out on the European budget. The question now is what we should do. It seems to the VVD wise that the Netherlands does not remain silent. We can't do that either. We will need to find new allies stronger than before to initiate initiatives that we want, for example for the internal market, and, in our view, to prevent unwanted initiatives in Europe. Our starting position is good in this respect, as I said in an interrupting debate with Mr Bishop. We are the fifth economy of the European Union when the British leave. There are several studies on how the Netherlands forms coalitions in Europe. For example, there is a research entitled "The Netherlands, the EU's hidden coalition champion," i.e.: we are doing good coalition formation at the moment. The Turkey deal, whatever you think of it, has also shown that the Netherlands can break a pot in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	I heard the representative of the VVD very coincidentally say to his colleague from D66: gosh, I actually have exactly the same input as you do. That is not surprising in itself, because in the European Parliament D66 and the VVD are in a group together. It is more common, but Mr Verhoeven has just referred to the concept of sovereignty as a dangerous illusion, sovereignty in the sense of the freedom of the population to make collective choices. We really shouldn't have done that. We must leave that to Brussels. For the people in the public gallery and perhaps also for the people who listen at home, I like to hear whether the VVD stands for that too. Is that how I conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	A point of order; that's what I thought. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	It is very nice that Mrs Maeijer is also involved in her interruption, but I would like to be properly quoted. I didn't say it was. Mr Macron has literally said 'that was part of my speech': 'Sovereignty means the freedom of the people to make collective choices'. That was Macron's quote I quoted, no more and no less. I think the intention to see D66 and the VVD as some kind of alliance in Europe was beautiful, so I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	First of all, I must address Mrs Maeijer with great exhortation, because she is listening to us from D66 and the VVD. I don't think that's very polite. In addition, she is also quoting wrongly, because I said something to Mr Verhoeven: we do have the same issues, but I fear that we have different views on a number of issues. If Mrs Maeijer is listening to us, she must be listening to us, because that avoids misunderstandings. Then I come to sovereignty. You have sovereignty, of course. That's what the British have shown us. They've decided sovereignly that they're getting out. So each country has sovereignty. You can leave the European Union. You can also say voluntarily: I want to have a European court, because when I deal with other countries, I need an independent referee if there are any disputes. Then you can give that or that organization the power to speak. You can take back sovereignty if you want. I would not do that, because we are greatly benefiting from the European Union, but we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	I can therefore conclude that the VVD welcomes the sovereignty transferred to the European Union and that the VVD does not stop the further transfer of sovereignty to the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, Mrs Maeijer cannot conclude that, because I did not say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	I see the same thing. Where Juncker's five scenarios may still contain a somewhat critical option, such as a Europe of only trade and the rest no longer, we are now seeing, with all those reflection papers that are coming, more and more integration and a European Commission more firmly in the saddle. I think we feel the same way, namely that we do not think this is a desirable trend. What are the red lines for the VVD fraction? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	What are those reflection papers now? They do not reflect the European Commission's vision of the future of the European Union. They contain scenarios, so possible solutions. The same applies to today's issue of European finances. I haven't seen him yet, but I understand that there are five scenarios in it, one to spend significantly less on the European Union. So they're not blueprints, they're scenarios. I think it's wise that you're not making blueprints, but you're putting down scenarios. Then you can talk about it. Mrs. Leijten is asking for red lines. You should always be careful with red lines, but I have already said something about a European army. We should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	A European Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	If you look at the problem in Europe, you will see that a number of countries have their European finances in order. That's the Netherlands and Germany. A number of countries do not. So you should not come with a European Finance Minister, but a number of countries, for example France and Italy, need a strong European Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	That sounds good, but then you will actually draw a red line at the further completion of EMU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'm very calm with drawing red lines. I'll tell you what I think. You have to be very careful to paint yourself in a corner by saying: here a red line and there a red line and here a veto. No, it's very quiet. But you know what we think. The important thing now is that we in Europe manage to regulate what the VVD thinks and what the Netherlands might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	The big problem is I don't know what the VVD thinks. The VVD actually does exactly the same as the Prime Minister: a bit critical here, but if something is agreed in Europe, we will continue, because it has been agreed by a majority. That is not a vision for Europe. That's not dealing with new relationships. I regret that the VVD, the largest group in this Chamber, does not dare to say where the red lines for further integration of the European Union lie. If the VVD fails to do so, we will be looking at further integration of the European Union in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	I think Mrs Leijten is exaggerating. I said exactly what we think of the European Union, in my first second: to solve the major cross-border problems: migration, security and climate. I told you, we have our finances in order. So we do not need a European Finance Minister at all. That's not necessary at all. The question is whether Mr Macron will ever need it again, because if he is to reform his own country and if he succeeds, he will also need that European Finance Minister much less. Mrs Leijten says "in December," but is it now? I have a strong impression that France currently has a lack of authority, because it does not have the public finances and the labour market in order. So the French still have to work very hard to reform their finances and the labour market. Once that's done, and it won't be in three months, they'll have a little more authority. Only then will the discussion begin. Even then, in Europe, you can see that not everyone is enthusiastic about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	This interruption debate also shows that in the appearance of the scenarios and the reflection papers there is reason to clarify and define our views on what is actually stated. I have proposed in my speech that we should have an organised debate on this in the coming months. We can talk about exactly what form that should take, but does Mr Mulder agree with me that this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	We very much agree with that. I understand from my colleague who is talking about the euro, that this will also happen in the permanent finance committee, when it comes to the euro, if I am well informed. So you always have to talk about it, that's good. I believe that in our committee Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten are going to make a joint proposal for the way in which we can study this. Mr. Omtzigt nods. We are already going to discuss it, so I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	I am very happy to wait for these proposals. The point is that we have a bit of a problem with the situation that it is complicated for a outgoing cabinet to draw very clear, definitive lines here. You could imagine the Chamber doing that. Then a debate here on these scenarios might be very appropriate. I imagine that we will be working together in the near future, apparently with others as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes, the proposals are on their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have a question for Mr Mulder on the euro. Is he not afraid that Merkel will support France after the German elections by further relaxing the budgetary rules? I would remind you of the German-French axis of 2002, when Germany had a problem. They then decided together to put aside the 3% standard. Is Mr Mulder not afraid that this will happen again after the German elections to strengthen Macron's position? That would mean a new dent in confidence in the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	I understand Mr Van Rooijen's comment very well. He also talked about European unification and the German mark. I wouldn't quickly use the word "bang." I'd rather say "alert." We need to keep a close eye on what's being said. I was just asking if it's really going so fast right now. Mrs Merkel says something about it in Germany, but she also has a number of conditions. European budget: this must be well substantiated. I don't see that justification. So I wouldn't be afraid, I would be alert and I said it in the interruption to Mr Bishop trying to influence that axis. If Mr Macron succeeds in his reforms, he will also need a European Minister for Finance much less. He no longer needs Europe to solve his problems, because he himself solves them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Mr Macron.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	Please continue. I thought you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	There's nothing I can do about these interruptions. I like them. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte was with the French President Macron last Friday and last Monday he was in Warsaw with the so-called Visegrád countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Today he will speak with his counterparts from Scandinavia and the Baltic States. Can he tell us how those conversations turned out? I told you, we shouldn't be afraid of that Franco-German ash. We have to try to influence him. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? What about the search for new allies? A lot's been going on. Will this be followed up in the coming months at the political level and at the official level? Is the Netherlands now prepared to seek out these new allies, at least to revive the relationship with existing allies? I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. There are again matters on the political agenda and the most important of them is the future of Europe. It is precisely on this agenda that there are many issues relating to the internal market and external relations. The new protectionist regime in the United States combines these two themes. After the G8 President Trump once again made a threatening statement about the German car industry. It is important for Europe to be an economic bloc when an important industry becomes subject of external protectionist threats. Such developments also bring European countries closer together. We can already see it happening in a Franco-German axis. This could lead to very far-reaching agreements affecting the whole of the Union. The strengthening of this axis is a reality that is accelerated by current developments in the world. Macron has won an election victory and gained clarity in his national parliament, allowing the formation of a government there to be considerably faster than in the Netherlands, and he is going to make far-reaching proposals, probably after elections have taken place in Germany and there is a new government. Some of these proposals are totally undesirable. This is how he wants to bet on a European army, an old French wish. The CDA asks the Prime Minister to speak against the creation of a European army at the summit. After the Brexit, an important ally, the United Kingdom, falls away for the Netherlands. The Prime Minister is right to anticipate; after the last mini- summit with Ireland and Denmark, he and his colleagues organized mini-tops in the Benelux context with the Visegrád countries, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, as well as with the Norwegian and Baltic states. The CDA welcomes that. However, we still have a number of questions about this. Is there going to be a more permanent partnership? Are countries such as Ireland and Austria eligible for this? Those seem to us partners we could do business with. What's the result of those summits? Will there be common positions? If so, how is the Prime Minister going to shape that? If you want to compensate, I believe that Mr Van Ojik also said that you will need quite a lot of countries, because of the voting relationships, when Germany, France and Italy are on the luggage carrier. Then you're gonna need something. By the way, you can work well with Visegrádlanden, even if you do not agree with each other. I would like to give an example to Poland and how it deals with the rule of law. You can indeed work together on other issues, such as a European army or whether or not you have it, so we say: not a European Minister for Finance. Will the Netherlands be able to build a coalition in which sovereign nations themselves also have responsibilities? No debt union and no millimeter on the way there either. After all, Dutch municipalities and the unitary state of the Netherlands are wearing their own pants. They don't issue joint debt papers. The states in the United States are in the currency union, but the debt papers are from the individual states. The idea of establishing a debt union is intended to solve the problems of those who are over-indebted. Does the Netherlands mention the position of Dutch pension funds? The Netherlands Bank and the Centraal Planbureau have finally made calculations, after years of questions. According to these institutes, 70 to 140 billion of the cover gap is due to the policies of the European Central Bank. This means damage in the order of €10,000 per Dutch pension participant as a result of ECB policy. How clear do you want an economic number? When will the Dutch Government respond to these calculations of these two authoritative institutions? What will the Dutch Government do with the fact that externals have now put it on the table? This is not from my own initiative paper, which you can all see as a bit political, but from two of the government's main advisors. We are currently seeing a very significant radicalisation in a number of candidate countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	I have another question for Mr Omtzigt. He already mentioned his own note on the implications of ECB policy. He also mentioned the effects, for which thanks. We discussed this with the Minister last week. What does he think of the 50PLUS initiative, which, in a very modest and prudent way, corrects that effect of the ECB, namely a much lower interest rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	The plan of the 50PLUS Group provides that if the ECB's interest rate is 0%, it is calculated as if the interest rate in the Netherlands is 2%. This means that at the end of the year you calculated that every €100 has grown to €102, because you think you have 2% guaranteed investment. However, if you have invested at 0% with the ECB, it is still €100, because you will not receive interest on your savings account. I would prefer the Dutch Government to tackle the problem at the root. That is the ECB policy that goes outside the mandate, in the eyes of the CDA Group..................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	I know this is your favourite subject, but I do not think it is on the agenda of the European summit. So I would say that you will continue with your speech, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	I saw an attempt by Mr Van Rooijen to go to trade-K. But it's not in government policy yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	We are currently seeing a very significant radicalisation taking place in candidate countries. Especially in Kosovo and Bosnia, and to some extent in Macedonia, we see extremist struggles with IS supporters, jihadists. This has a major impact on our security. What agreements do the EU countries make with these candidate countries to address this problem before these people enter Europe? This problem is getting bigger and bigger. It also affects the migration route. Europol has indicated this month that the Balkan route for terrorists and returning Syrians is still open and active. Does this finding of Europol lead to action, or does it remain the case? This is a danger to Europe. The CDA stresses this because there have been a large number of terrorist attacks in the Union. Almost all terrorism is inspired by radical Islam. And now there has also been an attack from the corner of radical anti-Islam. Is the EU setting up an agenda for joint action and joint reduction? Such an agenda will have to contain several facets, but fighting these IS camps will have to be one. Or should we wait until it gets worse? It is unclear what measures the Prime Minister himself considers necessary. I would like to hear a presentation from the Prime Minister on what he thinks should happen urgently now and what should happen in the longer term. As far as Brexit is concerned, I agree with the questions about the two agencies. The Netherlands has prepared a prayerbook for the EEA. That's what the Foreign Minister said. How does it work to obtain support for the Dutch preposition? Negotiations on the Brexit are now beginning with a rather shaky British cabinet in charge. We don't know whether to call it a minority government or a majority government. And there too, the declaration of government is postponed in Parliament, which is a unique one. This process is going to lead to big chunks, so much is clear. How do we deal with that? How are we gonna stop these chunks? Moreover, the Dutch Parliament is still unable to follow this process because, surprise, surprise, there is still no public access regime on the documents for parliamentarians. There is an EU portal. It contains all the draft documents. All officials of the European Union and of the Member States can see what is being discussed with Great Britain. And who is not allowed to access that portal of documents right now? Those are the parliamentarians. The documents can be made available for inspection, but that means that you can only see them in The Hague. Because things often happen in the short term, this is a considerable obstacle for a parliamentarians who lives in Enschede. This means that we cannot follow this process properly and are always lagging behind in the provision of information. How are we going to ensure that we simply get a password so that we can ask the questions in good time and not only afterwards? This is what I've been asking for months. The negotiations are about to begin, and this is serious. If anything goes wrong in a file, I'll come back to this. Then I will judge whether I was able to see it in time or not. That way, we can't carry out our control task. What exactly happened to Turkey? There has been a meeting between Juncker, Tusk and Erdogan, and there is another meeting with a number of ministers on the role of the customs union. Do we see an intensification there, when we have still not seen the CPT report on possible abuse in prisons and no progress has been made on human rights? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has promised to question Turkey's pre-accession funds during the IAB. Did that happen and, if so, what was the answer? And is the Prime Minister willing, if it didn't happen, to just do that at the summit? Why should this country now deserve pre-accession support? I am also looking at yesterday's statement by the committee of the European Parliament. Finally, I would also like to mention the death of Helmut Kohl, someone who has made a huge contribution in his own way to the unification of Germany and has fought heart and soul for good European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. It drinks and simmers in Europe. For the first time, a Member State is leaving the European Union. New relationships are on the way. An ally leaves and the Prime Minister goes all over Europe to make new friends. But how exactly is that going to happen? On what topics exactly do we need them? Who's taking the initiative? Can the Prime Minister outline exactly how these prepared mini-tops, dinners, lunches, breakfasts or whatever the meetings are called? What are they, what is on the agenda, what was on the agenda and what is agreed? A new European Union must be created after the departure of the United Kingdom and I wonder if that is going well. It is clear from research carried out by the people of Europe that the citizens of the European Union want to be part of cooperation, but also that they are becoming more and more critical of what Europe decides. That is the opposite of what the Commission is doing now. Publications of a number of reflection papers in which it outlines future scenarios for the European Union in key areas will not surprise anyone that the European Commission sees a growing role for itself: more EU policies, more integration, paternity leave, a European Minister of Finance, the conclusion of trade agreements outside national parliaments. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the five scenarios that Juncker initially outlined are actually highly symbolic? The Commission, which is working on everything now, is in a clear position. It is important that the Netherlands also has a clear position with like-minded Member States, because if we do not do that now, then we know how things are going. In the European Union, it's always like this: you're early, you're early, you're still early, and suddenly you're late. I would ask the Prime Minister how he, and certainly in the context of the new leader of France, Macron, will prevent us from standing by and that, for example, the completion of monetary union is simply there. Has the cabinet drawn any red lines on the proposals for the completion of EMU? Are there areas in which the Prime Minister no longer wants to see the transfer of powers? What about, for example, the appreciation of a European Minister for Finance, a European Union budget and even stricter demands on the countries for what they need to reform and what they need to cut back on? As far as the SP is concerned, the ambition of the European Union should not be to put all the Member States in the same mould, because that is a hopeless path and undermines the European Union's support. We prefer scenarios other than the one taste of even more Union. Certainly in the financial and economic field, we must enter into a fundamental discussion. Do we want to continue with this currency union and what alternatives are there? What realistic images are there about that? How do we ensure that there is no new euro crisis? How, for example, can we bring the ECB under democratic control? When will we finally make work of the financial sector, for example, and turn banks into reliable and stable institutions, which can no longer hold governments hostage because they are too big to fail? The Brexit negotiations have begun. Despite the election results, the Brexit is still the Brexit. Amidst all the uncertainties that this gives us and others, especially the United Kingdom, one thing is clear: the Netherlands has a lot to lose in a hard Brexit. Now that all players have been positioned and the start has been given, the Netherlands must say clearly, clearly and loudly that we want a soft Brexit, that we would like an interim solution for two years from now, if there is still no agreement with the United Kingdom. Is the Prime Minister going to do the same? It is important for us to be kept informed of what is happening with the Brexit negotiations. I agree with the CDA's request that we can just access the documents. But it is also important for me to know what the Prime Minister is doing with the new friends policy. Last Friday he went to visit the new French President Macron. Is it true that there has been talk of the future of Strasbourg? Is it also true that Macron wants to deal with the annual 200 million-dollar moving circus? Does the Prime Minister also want to raise this issue in the debate at the summit on where the medicine and banking agencies end up and how this is handled? This is an essential part of what we need to do. In Europe, you must seize opportunities when they are there. Is there a chance here and the Prime Minister is going to grab it? A deal with Libya seems far away, especially given the fact that our country has indicated that refugees cannot be sent to unsafe third countries. How does the Netherlands experience the reliability of the Libyan government, now that the lifeboat of Sea-Watch, which sails under the Dutch flag, has almost been hit by a boat by the Libyan Coast Guard? It could have ended dramatically. Is this incident under investigation? If so, by whom? By the Libyan government? Which one? By an international organization? What impact does this have on the agreements made with Libya, which support the coastguard and guard Libyan borders? Has Libya made any more demonstrable improvements in terms of the degrading conditions in which it has refugees received or locked up? I certainly agree with Mr Verhoeven's question about exactly the 90 million that has been released for this purpose. When it comes to the future of the GEAS, here's what I want to know. The Netherlands always wanted to negotiate package: discuss everything and make a deal about it. Germany has now said that we need to make some progress, because other things are difficult. What exactly does the Netherlands do in this position? And yet Greece. There's been a deal that didn't have to be on this top, but what about the deal? There is 8.5 billion going to the country to pay off the debt, but what about the IMF's participation in order to ultimately do something about debt sustainability? There is no certainty, because there is a stand-by agreement with the IMF. What exactly does that mean? How realistic is it that Greece achieves a budget surplus of 3.5% per year from 2018 to 2022? These are all assumptions under this support package, which I wonder if we are not creating a next mud trail in which we get stuck. The Netherlands is very good at teaching other countries about budgetary agreements, and it likes to play its part: cutting back on provisions for all citizens, because that is what Europe needs to do. But where the Netherlands has been out of step for years, the trade surplus is. For 30 years we have had a trade surplus and over the last 15 years we have been well above the European standard of 6%. This is at the expense of wages in the Netherlands, a country that exports a lot, has a tendency to reduce wages, but certainly also at the expense of workers in southern Europe, because they cannot compete with our country. A double misfit. Now the European Commission is calling on the Netherlands to increase wages significantly. This call follows that of DNB, the CPB and the IMF. Everyone is now calling on us to increase our wages, to do something about the trade surplus. What's the government gonna do? Finally, a question. In the note that we received on the annotated agenda, we read: "The Cabinet also notes the need for an additional European commitment to the Internal Market Strategy, in particular in order to exploit the potential of the European services market." What does that phrase mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I do not really have anything to say, but if the President asks me to speak and at least be available for interruptions, then I think it is a matter of office to do the same. Let me say something about the European Union in general. We can see that at the forthcoming summit there are all kinds of issues on the agenda that, however you look at them, increasingly concern the cornerstones of state-building. Think about things like border control, border defence, immigration, finance, external relations and how you deal with everything that has to do with that whole climate idea. You can differ within a certain paradigm from each other. The VVD wants a little less, CDA just a little more, and GroenLinks and D66 want that and so on. However, you can also have a debate between paradigms. You can ask the question: do we want the whole European story within a certain bandwidth or not? You'll come up with a few more normative questions. Is it good or is it less good to be taller? Is it better if all these different European countries do all kinds of things together or not? What is the way to have the most success in the twenty-first century? Do you have to be small or big? Do small businesses, small municipalities, small hospitals and small schools generally not do much better than large molochs? Isn't there a problem with the overhead of very large organizations? At that level, Forum would like to hold a debate. In the end, this can only be resolved in the form of a referendum. That is why we are so in favour of referenda: that is the only way to really deal with these kinds of questions, otherwise you will find yourself in what the Germans call "Parlamentarismus." Then you get a kind of compromise of a compromise, where the technocrats are in charge and permeate the train. That is our view on this. So this is yet another step on the farther train of the European Union. You've got some people who've been wiggling on the sidelines and who want it a little less, and you've got some people who call it faster, but they're neutralizing each other, like the eleven folk tribunes neutralized each other in the old republic, allowing the Senate to determine everything. To end with a nice quote: fata duckt volentem, noletem tramunt. So those who do and those who don't, they neutralize each other and it just goes on. That is what the EU is. You can want that, then you can support the Macron-Merkeltandem, or you can't want that, then you can be for a Brexit. Everything else is witness to intellectual laziness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	I have a question for Mr Baudet. He gave the impression for a moment, but perhaps I am mistaken that you do not necessarily have to be big and that you can also have a good position as a smaller country. England's coming out now. I hear about big companies from England going to Switzerland now. If they say 'we want to take over the Swiss model', then the Swiss say 'you can, but you have to accept European freedoms'. In other words, if the English can't do it and are stuck with those principles, do you think you will have a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yeah, I don't think the English are stuck at all. I think the Brexit will be a great success. The economy is doing just fine there. Of course, it is not just an economic issue. It's not like you're doing a math, you add up a few things and subtract some things from each other and then say, "I'm gonna have one euro more at the end of the year, and then it's okay. You can't just answer moral questions with money issues. But in general, I am convinced that the United Kingdom is going to do an excellent job. The same applies to a lot of other small countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	Does Mr Baudet recognise that inflation in the United Kingdom is now rising rapidly, at the expense of the purchasing power of the people there? I'll come back to my question. I hear from large English groups who go neighborhoods in Switzerland, for example, because they want the Swiss model, that the Swiss can say: we have an agreement, but that includes the three principles of free access. Can Mr Baudet imagine that if England stumbled upon it, the Netherlands would also have to deal with this very hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	We don't know that. Negotiations are about to begin and they will last for the next two years, at least. I expect some sort of provisional retention of the current agreements will come out of that. Then a period of about ten years will follow in which this will be systematically peeled off. It's way too early to say this now. I hear a kind of joy, a kind of enthusiasm in Mr Van Rooijen's words: look, the British can't do it, fine, they can't. I don't look at it that way. I think they'll manage. I think they have a bright future outside the European Union. Anyway, we'll see. Meanwhile, besides the United Kingdom, there are many other countries that are relatively small and that really do survive in the world, such as Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, you name it. You shouldn't overdo it, because the Netherlands isn't that small at all. That microphobia, that idea: we are small and we cannot survive and so on, is really an idea fix. It's based on air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Baudet talked about intellectual laziness and then he comes up with microphobia and all kinds of very nice words. Actually, it's intellectual laziness when you don't have your facts in order, when you say, "I think it's going to be okay." As Mr Van Rooijen said, inflation is rising, the cost of living is rising, production in the United Kingdom is stagnating. "Mwah, what fascinates me with these facts?" That's intellectual laziness, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	No, many sectors are excellent, for example in the retail sector. There are many companies that would like to go to the UK. There may be something more important going on. Those who are used to reading mainly many policy pieces may also be used and inclined to see the news of the day as an immediate trend that will extrapolate, which will continue. These are fluctuations, there are all kinds of things going on in the world economy, in politics, and I know what's going on. You're gonna have to go a little deeper into the currents under the waves of the sea to see where it's really going with a country. The United Kingdom and, for example, the City of London have an incredible competitive quality. The country is the carrier of the largest language in the world, has one of the largest armies in the world, has the commonwealth system and has plenty of opportunities to develop in the coming time. The fact that there may be a slight slump in these elections and I know what it is, I find too much short-term to go into that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	It is remarkable that Mr Baudet gets speaking time, then accuses all colleagues here of intellectual laziness or of choosing a wrong route in Europe, but in no way asks the Prime Minister exactly what he is doing to achieve what Mr Baudet wants. We think differently about that, but it's okay, in this house. The intention of your contribution to the debate is also that, apart from sub- and sub-currents and the likes of the world, I think that is all very well for you to ask the government to do something? Mr Baudet does not even ask his electorate if the Prime Minister wants to do something for them in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mrs Leijten is absolutely right, which is why I did not see any point in speaking here. Because that's pointless. The Prime Minister has no influence in the European Union. What he might change as percentage points here and there, we consider irrelevant. We want out of the European Union, everything else is a waste of time. The European Union is incorruptible. It is a project that will develop through an institutional logic. All this has been written down in the books of Monnet, Schuman and so on. All this wrangling of all those representatives of these countries and so only serves to legitimise it. They say: 'Look, we have had a debate and it was against and it was in favour.' That is crossed out against each other and the caravan continues. That is the whole philosophy of the EU. We're not in on it. We therefore consider this a pointless debate. That's why I said I don't have to talk. I think it is a matter of elementary courtesy; Mrs Leijten can at least interrupt me if she so wishes. I don't have any questions for the Prime Minister, because I don't think that's relevant. If I'm going to be Prime Minister, I'm not going to a European summit at all. That is completely pointless. There's nothing to do there. There's nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I agree with a few observations made by Mr Baudet. It seems that there is some kind of dynamic in the European Union which makes it all self-evident, but it is about people and governments who say yes there. Our Prime Minister will be there tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. He has to say yes or no and he gets something from Parliament. I should like to give that to Mr Baudet. I understand you can say from his point of view that you think it's a pointless debate. At the moment, the Netherlands is blocking the choice of a European court. That is what we have done as a parliament. I hear Mr Omtzigt is now improving me by saying that it is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We've done all that stuff here. That a debate is pointless may be Mr Baudet's observation, but there have been more moments when this Parliament has indeed directed our government. Probably that was not enough, but I regret that Mr Baudet is not taking the opportunity to put a question to the Prime Minister for his electorate, because he is not yet Prime Minister yet, so that they too will be represented in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	Okay, then we ask the Prime Minister to make a plea on our behalf against and vote against all the European Union's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	I would like to thank Mr Baudet for his contribution. I'm gonna go into his speech anyway. He's just saying things that aren't right. I think it is also my job to point that out to him. I respect his approach and his paradigm, but in the UK the decline in retail in May has been stronger than anticipated. According to the UK Statistical Office, retail sales in the United Kingdom decreased more than expected in May. This was demonstrated by the figures of that British agency on Thursday. The OECD has also shown -2%. If we are discussing important issues in this Parliament, we can totally disagree and I very much respect the views of all parties in this Parliament, then we must do so on the basis of the facts. Then we can enrich them on the basis of opinions, arguments, political perspectives. If, however, Mr Baudet constantly repeats his speech with all sorts of bullshit and then tells others that they show intellectual laziness, then I think he crosses a line. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that he has simply given false information to his colleagues and has also accused them of intellectual laziness. I find that very disappointing. Better next time, I'd like to say to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	We are not colleagues but colleagues, but that aside. It is true that retail fell again in May, but since the choice for the Brexit on June 23rd last year, retail net has increased dramatically. In the period from July to February, it has risen very much. It is true that retail has fallen slightly over the last month, but that is compared to a large increase over eight months. So net retail has still risen enormously. That's what I just meant by "it's just what term you're looking at." If you read the paper, you'd say, well, she's gone down again; it's something! Three months later it follows: oh, it has risen again. There is, of course, an economic situation, but the economic situation also depends on longer lines and longer deadlines. The most important point I would like to make is the following. Let's start with the Brexit now. It's a two-year negotiation process. In my view, it is a testimony of a misplaced, cloaked enthusiasm that one is now rubbing one's hands and saying "oh, there's just as bad news from the UK again; look!'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	A short response or a short question, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	I'm not excited about that. Mr Baudet is right: if the time limit you take is long enough, then there is always an increase. Mr Baudet will be right one day. That's the cleverness of his politics. I just want to say that all the people who are going to work hard for the next two years to ensure that there is some good result for the British are those who are now fully committed to it. The ease with which Mr Baudet says 'it will all work out' makes no contribution whatsoever. I think that's something he needs to realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	I suggest we suspend until 12:30. After the suspension, we'll start with the arrangement of work. After that, the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to respond.
