ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister of Finance to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The first sentence in my text is that this is a special moment for me and no letter of it is a lie. This is my first appearance as Minister of Finance in the beating heart of democracy. Maybe I can start by congratulating my colleague Joost Sneller, who just walked in on his excellent maiden speech? It's getting a little complicated with Faster, Faster and Faster. With a first name like mine, you can't afford your name jokes, so I won't. But if I am wrong once, they will forgive me in advance. Mr. Chairman. Being a Minister of Finance is a great privilege, but also a great responsibility. That's why I'm going to work hard for the Netherlands over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Before you continue, we have Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	Members of parliament are not your colleagues but at most their counterparts; but they are not. In any case, they are not colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	'Member politicians' was what I had in mind, I say to Mr Baudet. I am very aware of the state-of-the-art relations in which the Chamber is the boss and the cabinet is only a guest here. Mr. Chairman. I had come to the point that I wanted to say that I am going to work very hard for the Netherlands, because I think that is why we are all doing it here. Maybe I can briefly outline what I'm going to do and what the Chamber can count on in terms of form, style and content? I'll start with the shape. I have been expressly advised not to talk too much about the Upper House in the House of Representatives, but the members themselves have mentioned it a few times, so perhaps I can say one thing about it. I learned across the street to work with members of all political groups. I would be keen on it, and I am also keen on picking up that thread in my new role, no matter how different that role may be. As far as I am concerned, working together means entering into dialogue with mutual respect and debating on the basis of arguments. Of course, then, we will sometimes differ from understanding, because we all have different political perspectives. There are conflicting interests and there are several starting points. Let us be clear: that is also part of democracy. I look forward to the debate. I look forward to this debate with all the elements that go with it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's something about style and setup. As Minister of Finance, I will often choose a strict stance. I will do that here, I will do that in the Cabinet, and I will do that in Europe, because I think that is my role. It is my role, my job and my job to watch over the country's treasury and long-term financial interests. Mr. Chairman. Paradoxically, in economic good times, it is more difficult than in a crisis time. The starting point of the cabinet is, of course, good, as a number of Members pointed out yesterday. The economy is growing, employment is picking up, unemployment is falling and public finances are back on track. In various rankings, the Netherlands also scores excellently, whether it is about the economy, its innovative power and the deficit that has now turned into a surplus, or about education, research and many more topics. I think it is good to say that this is the merit of the hard work of many generations of Dutch people and that politics plays a facilitating role in this. It's not the other way around. Mr. Chairman. So you can expect me, as Minister of Finance, to concentrate on the content and to do everything I can to monitor the good starting position of public finances. I will say a few words about this, including to Mr Dijkgraaf, about his comparison with a predecessor of mine and King Joseph. Those weren't my words, I say. I wouldn't have dared draw that comparison myself. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I attach great importance to the principle of trendary fiscal policy. The Chamber is very familiar with this policy, but I would like to emphasise it. That is part of the budgetary policy that this cabinet has set out and I am also going to work to comply with it. Secondly, there is the importance of looking at efficient expenditure. This was achieved, among other things, by Mr Sneller, but I also believe by Mr Dijkgraaf and others. The money we are talking about in this house is not political. That is the money that Dutch people have earned, which we must look after as well as possible and spend where we think it is necessary. I am therefore standing here to do this in the best possible way for the Netherlands and all the Dutch. Mr President, you have just asked me, I will build up my speech along six different blocks. I shall begin with the government's budgetary policy and the effects of government policy on public finances. Secondly, I will deal with the investments made by the cabinet. That's a lot of them. That's a very wide package. It is about investing in the collective provision of money and human resources, looking at education, care, security, defence and much more. Thirdly, I am going to say something about the reforms that the government wants to implement, particularly in the important systems: the labour market, the housing market and the pension system. Maybe I'll be able to put the climate underneath it as well. Fourthly, I would like to say a few words about the planned reforms of the tax system, which reduce the burden and also apply it, through taxation, to the locational environment. That will not have escaped the attention of the Members. In general terms, I will comment on the impact on different groups of Dutch and companies and on the purchasing power effects. That was also asked, among other things by Mr Van Dijck. However, I will leave the tax details and the questions on the behalf of the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then comes block five, in which I go into international policy. Of course, that's all relatively fresh. I shall therefore say a few words about my experience in Brussels during the first half of this week. Finally, point six, I would like to discuss how the government's policy is working out for the economy and people in the country. The government agreement rightly states that a good country is more than just macroeconomic figures. Mrs Leijten also said something about it yesterday, specifically in the context of the concern, and I very much agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, it is about what the good economic figures and the measures announced by the cabinet, especially in the government agreement, mean for individual Dutch people. They need to improve not only the statistics, but also their wallets. That seems to me to be an issue on which we do not disagree, at least at that level. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the first block, public finances. The cabinet pursues a trendary fiscal policy. The Chamber knows that this is actually based on three different goals. First of all, it provides overview and predictability. I have used the words'rest, cleanliness and regularity'; I will not deny that they are derived from a more domestic situation. Secondly, in this trendary fiscal policy, it is important that it supports a good allocation of public funds. Thirdly, what is also important is the debate that started yesterday on the economic situation and on pro-cyclical and anti-cyclical, it contributes to economic stability. The members will recognize that. An important principle of this trendary fiscal policy is that the maximum level of government expenditure for the entire cabinet period is set in advance. That is not always easy and it produces a lot of conversations, but it is a key policy. In fact, clear multiannual expenditure ceilings contribute to the proper control of public expenditure, as there is a need to compensate for the threat of overruns within the same budget by means of cuts. The policy development of taxes and premiums for citizens and businesses is also agreed in advance. That too will be recognized by the Chamber. The real income can be considered in terms of economic development. We know that if economic downturns result in less taxes than anticipated, we do not have to compensate for that because instead the balance will deteriorate. That is also the essential principle of automatic stabilisation. These cyclical fluctuations, which are always there and which are very likely to occur during this cabinet period, are reflected in the budget balance. The government also wants to incorporate the functioning of these automatic stabilisers into the budget. That is also the logic behind putting the WW outside the expenditure framework and the assistance, in line with the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space from, I believe, the summer of 2016. Mrs De Vries has raised a number of specific questions on this subject and, moreover, a number of others. This means that increasing expenditure on WW and assistance as a result of disappointing economic developments will be in the balance. So there is no need to bend over. It is important to make this distinction if policy adjustments are to be made with regard to the WW or the assistance. For example, the additional increase in the benefit is policy-wise, so that would have to be covered within the expenditure ceiling. This automatic stabilisation supports macroeconomic stability. In addition, it is precisely in economic bad times that it is important to maintain as stable a policy as possible to avoid unnecessary uncertainty on the part of households and businesses. As a result, I have also pointed out a number of times to colleagues in the cabinet that the cabinet is not steering on the government balance but on the agreements made in the government agreement. Mr Bruins has asked me to reflect on the automatic stabilisers, whether they can do their job unhindered, given the international context. In the budgetary rules, we agreed that these automatic stabilisers could work. I just mentioned the WW and the welfare. The consequence is that public finances are deteriorating if the economy is deteriorating. Mr Bruins was quite right to say that there are, of course, always uncertainties. You have the so-called known unknowns, like the Brexit, but you also have the unknown unknowns, things we just don't see coming yet. So Mr Bruins is right about that. The cabinet is also committed to European budgetary rules. As long as there is a margin to those rules, these automatic stabilisers can also do their job. The Start note shows very clearly that this is also the case for the time being. But if public finances were to deteriorate to such an extent that the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact were to be seen, it might be necessary to intervene. And I don't think that's any different from what it's been in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	Before you go any further, I'd like to know if you're still at the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	I have indicated, as you have just asked me, what six topics I am going to talk about. I am at the first in a third, and that is about public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	So you're still at the first part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'm still at the first block, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	No, because if it takes a very long time, I understand the impatience of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	You're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman. So I'll leave that all to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	I saw Mrs. Leijten at first, but not anymore. Then I'm going to see Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	I had a more technical question. When it comes to calm, cleanliness and trendary fiscal policies, what has been the consideration of bringing interest and gas income within the framework? That is precisely something that works pro-cyclically and does not bring the peace which the Minister is now advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	I think Mr Van Dijck has a crucial point. Mr Snels did the same yesterday, and so did one or two others. In my view, Mr Nijboer has also looked specifically at interest rates here in a debate. It's good to tell you where we're from. A report was sent to the Chamber in the summer of 2016. In it is explained once again how this is all done. That is the so-called fifteenth Study Group on Budgets. Choices have been made to allow the whole to run as anti-cyclically as possible. Maybe I can put it that way. So the WW and the assistance were taken out and the interest was in first, then went out and was brought in. The gas has indeed been added. I think that is a sensible choice, because this also gives us the opportunity to judge the whole. Otherwise, the gas would be more over less gas we would also have to pay for it in the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr Nijboer also said it yesterday. Surely it cannot be that if it is a choice of the Chamber to pump up less gas to protect the people in Groningen with their homes and you name it, then it is said to the same people in Groningen: pay attention, we are doing this but it is at the expense of domestic help, the elderly, the nurses or the teachers? That's an unfair comparison, and you shouldn't make it. The same applies to interest rates. We know that things are getting better economically now. Tapering is coming from the ECB. So interest rates are going to rise in the coming years. We would then have to cut back or increase the burden because of the Frankfurt policy. That's not the peace you're looking for, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have two comments to make. The first is that we all share the concerns about the safety of the people in Groningen. That is a widely shared and very real concern. We shall soon be able to agree on that. It is important to take away a misunderstanding that seems to exist. Suppose we decide to reduce gas revenues even further. There's already a reduction in it. Moreover, the greatest reduction has already taken place over the last ten years. Mr Nijboer knows that too. From 6 to 7 billion a year or six or seven years ago, we reached just over 2 billion. But such a reduction will always have to be paid. The question is then only whether or not you leave this in the balance or whether you place it within the frameworks. And in order to have the overview and the political report is, moreover, an official opinion, I would like to say that it is possible to make the most comprehensive possible assessment, that is put back into it. The situation with the interest rate also shows that you can look at it differently. That was part of the frame once. That's when it was taken out. And now it's back in. Grosso mode is wise, I think, because that interest is not so disturbing. But I understand very well that it can be looked at differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	I strongly support the trend in budgetary policy. I am also a big fan of the reports of the study group on budgetary space, but with these gas benefits I am really unhappy, for two reasons. The political reason is that if we go further back into gas extraction, this under the expenditure framework means that we need to make structural cuts in education. That's not what I'm here for. But the substantive reason is that we have not seen gas benefits as structural revenue for some time. So you can just let that fall into the deficit; that also doesn't go at the expense of the sustainability deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	So there is actually no economic reason to bring these gas benefits under the expenditure framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	I really don't think we agree on this. I think it is a sensible advice to bring it in, because that gives the politicians the opportunity to make an overall assessment. Again, I would like to avoid the misunderstanding that if you put it out of the box, you would not suffer from it. Because then you'll find it irrevocably in your balance. We all know that it is an important responsibility to pay attention to this balance, both for the short term and, above all, for the long term. So to park that on the sidewalk again next generations, it doesn't seem so pure to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, that's the point. It is at the expense of the actual balance, that is correct. However, I do not believe that it is at the expense of the structural balance and not of the government's sustainability deficits. The trend in fiscal policy is also a structural way of looking at public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	And so there is no reason to place gas benefits under the expenditure framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	It might still be good to stress once again that this report, with all the rules in it, was shared with the Chamber in 2016. So it is also something that has appeared here in all transparency and openness, with truly commendable recommendations. I think it is wise that these choices have been taken over by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	I very much disagree with that. There have been over a hundred debates in this Chamber on the extraction of gas in Groningen. That was quite a fuss, but in the end the Minister for Finance, your predecessor, said: finances will never be leading less gas extraction. Never. That's not gonna matter. Why now, then, decide to have that gas extraction exchanged, if you now decide "we are going to win less', for less education expenses, safety or care? Isn't that incomprehensible in the direction of the Groningen people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	I'm really resisting this contradiction. I began by saying on Mr Van Dijck's very justified point that the safety of the people in Groningen is of great importance and that I believe that everyone feels it. So let's not pretend that one of us is far better off with the Groningen than the other. We all know that money must go there, and we all know in this Chamber that the Chamber has said that these wishes will be taken very seriously. You can also read that in the coalition agreement. This is where you put it in the numbers. I repeat once again: if there is no gas left, if there is no gas being pumped up, you either have to adjust the charges, or the expenses. It's that simple, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	No, because you can choose to put it in the balance. And the charges aren't allowed, either, if you keep the separation of income expenses. This is under the expenditure framework. So if you want to deviate from your own budgetary rules in the first half-hour today, then I will; my blessing is with you. But you yourself put it under the spending framework. I am very opposed to this and you will notice that because Groningers has always been told: we cannot sit here in the cold in winter, companies cannot be closed, security of supply is all that matters. Now it is also weighed against other priorities and wishes. That's not what I'm here for. I think it should just run into the balance as fast as it can. That is also what we have proposed in our counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	I do not think that Mr Nijboer and I agree on this point. But there's more, so maybe there's another opportunity later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	I would like to go back to the economic section within the framework for the WW and the assistance. The Minister states that it can happen when, for example, there is a change in the amount of the benefit. But there are other non-conjunctural matters. Suppose, for example, the Work and Assistance Act is not properly implemented and therefore you get an increasing number of beneficiaries. Then it would be weird if you estimated that under the cyclical section. The question then is whether you agree with me that this is not part of the economic cycle and how you are going to determine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	I think it is really important to separate here between what we do in policy terms and what has to do with the fluctuations in the height or the low levels of benefits and whether they go up or down. What we are going to do about it or intend to do about it on a policy basis will have an effect. Otherwise, we're gonna put it in the balance. To be honest, I also think that this is what will ensure stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	Then I conclude that if the Work and Assistance Act is not properly implemented, adjustments must be made because it is not in the economic cycle. My question, how does the Minister assess it, remains. What part is cyclical and what part is then determined by policy adjustments or poor implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	I think it's the other way around. It is important that Mrs De Vries and I understand each other well. Policy adjustments are coming in. Things that are not a policy adjustment run in the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Then how do you implement that policy? We've decentralised this to the municipalities. We sometimes see that municipalities simply do not do what has been agreed on that point. I really do not think that should be included in the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think that is a good debate to have with the Minister for Social Affairs. I am not saying that in order not to give Mrs De Vries an answer, but this is the logic of the report. It is also a logic that we can follow, I think. I understand that different political parties have different wishes for substance and that it is therefore more or less pleasing in some respects that things are being put into context. I believe that the design of the officials who wrote the report has been to ensure cyclical stability and to ensure that we do things in a rather procyclical economy that work a little anti-cyclically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	Very briefly. I get that cyclical part. There's still something to say for that. But if municipalities don't do this properly, it just doesn't belong in it. I think that is also a matter for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	The Minister began by saying that he realizes that he is here at the heart of democracy. I would like to ask him if he thinks that the Chamber also has budgetary rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	I think the Chamber certainly does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	This is only partly true with the budgetary rules that are before us and which have been before us in recent years. What if there's more money available? You can't touch that if it's outside the box. That is called an "uncovered check" here, while the money is there. If there is abundance but at the same time there is also a large shortage in mental health care, for example, people in the country do not understand that we do not solve it. The House of Representatives is then in fact empty-handed, because the budgetary rules determine that. How does the Minister deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	I think it is a good thing to note that the whole package of the coalition agreement can count on a majority here. The word 'package' fell a number of times yesterday and I fear I will have to use it a few times. All parties who have signed the agreement also sign up for trend-based budgeting with everything that goes with it. It goes without saying that this has implications for its own right to co-form the budget. By the way, I would like to say that many other parties also support the trend in budgeting. That has really been a political choice. I think it was also a wise choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	Well, then, let's get this over with, shall we? When there are parties who see problems in society that they want to solve and see that there is money to solve them, it is not said that it is an uncovered cheque. It is simply said that a majority of the Chamber has decided that the Chamber has no budgetary power in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	Of course, that sounds like a wonderful appointment, but I do not think we should go along with it in this way. Perhaps I can say one more general thing, also in relation to a number of things that were said yesterday about small wishes or thoughts on how things could be different. The Prime Minister said here: 'I am trying to quote him literally 'that the door of the Trêveszaal is wide open.' Afterwards, a discussion about the outstretched hand broke loose. Then that became the warm hand. Then I stopped to follow the metaphor completely. I think he has wanted to say that and has also shown that the cabinet, where it is concerned about community nursing, is very keen to continue talking to the Chamber and is really willing to look at concerns and thoughts that live. That is the one side of the story, which I want to repeat very clearly. I think it is important that the Minister of Finance also looks at it that way. But there is also another side to that story, namely that building an agreement in the Netherlands is an extremely complicated exercise. We have seen that again in the last few months. There are four parties with different views involved. It will then become complicated to pull something out at will. In addition, I would like to say quite explicitly in my role as Minister of Finance, that we agreed on these frameworks last Friday. They're in the Start note. There is certainly room for discussion and good ideas, but I also attach great importance to maintaining the structure and leaving the frameworks for what they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	With this I have received an answer to my question whether these rulers look at their Excelsheets and dots more or less, or at society. It's the first one. We are meeting now for three and a half years, and we are not going to deviate from that. That's not how the world works. The budget doesn't work like that either. I actually think it is a limitation of what politics can do for people who have problems, or who can do about problems that need to be solved. If it restricts the Court's budgetary law, which is supported by a majority of 76 seats, it is not good for the reputation of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	I think it's really different. Let me say one thing about that. This cabinet comes with a very broad and very balanced package of investments: in the field of defence, in the field of care, in the field of education and in many areas more. It has also been very clearly looked at that this benefits as much as possible for all Dutch people: workers and non-working people, people with a house for sale and people with a house for rent. Frankly, as far as I'm concerned, that's a very well-balanced and balanced story. I think we have done a great deal of what Mrs Leijten could also be satisfied with. In addition, I think that is a legitimate wish, not only from the Chamber and not only from the cabinet but also from the population, that we should also look at the long-term financial soundness. That's always a complicated balance. I think we have found a good balance in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr Van Dijck has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	I have another question about the extraction of gas, because I am not comfortable with the fact that it has now been placed under that framework. The Minister himself just made the right suggestion to put the gas benefits under the revenue framework. If there's a setback or a windfall, at least it's in the balance. I am therefore happy to accept this Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	No, Mr President, Mr Van Dijck is a gifted debater, but I think I should stick to what I said at the beginning. I have explained why it should not be in the balance and why the account is ultimately for politics and the Minister of Finance in all cases. I would like to leave it at that. It was ingenious; perhaps I should add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	I suggest that you go further, because I think there are a lot of questions that still need to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	You can say that again. I will move on to the issue of expenditure and revenue. That is in fact in line with the debate that Mrs Leijten and I have just had. How does the cabinet fill in budgetary policy over the next four years? In total, the cabinet gives an impetus to the economy of, let me say, EUR 14.5 billion. Of this, 6.6 billion comes in the form of a reduction in charges, which falls mainly on households and also on companies. This is part of the tax reform that I will have discussed further in Block 4. In addition, the cabinet invests in the future of the Dutch economy and of Dutch public services. A total of around 8 billion has been earmarked for this purpose. Those are the investments that I have just referred to as defence, security, education, research, sustainability and a lot more. I'll deal with that in a moment. The additional expenditures and reductions in charges included in the government agreement have been considered after the last few years. On balance, the cabinet gives an impetus to the economy of EUR 14.5 billion. But... And that is precisely what Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Sneller and certainly Mr Azarkan referred to yesterday, which brings us to the limits of the budgetary area. I come to a question by Mr Nijboer on the reduction of charges and the economic situation. He actually asked why those reliefs were brought forward. Is that good economic policy? As far as we are concerned, it is good economic policy. That is not new either, because you can see that the previous cabinet left this cabinet with a basic path where it also went another way. As far as we're concerned, that means it's getting more rewarding to work. I'm gonna say more about that in a minute. Otherwise, it would not be until later in the future. Moreover, as I think Mr Dijkgraaf said yesterday, it is not the case that the economy is in danger of being overheated, no matter how good it is. At that point, I guess, we just haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	Before I give Mr Dijkgraaf the floor for an interruption, I note that you are working on block 1 for almost half an hour. A lot of questions have been asked about section 4. Let me call it that; "block" sounds so disrespectful. I am very curious whether the other subjects will take the same time. Then we'd get in a bit of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	Here too, of course, it is a bit of a search for a balance. To be honest, I also wanted to try to give the Members of your Chamber a proper answer. If this is an encouragement to give shorter answers, I can try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr Dijkgraaf for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	The Minister just said that several colleagues, including myself, asked for sustainability. Then the sentence followed: 'We are at the limits of budgetary space'. Is the Minister going to say anything more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	So let me do so immediately, also in the context of the speed required by the President. Look, we have a good starting position. I don't think there's any discussion about that. I also think it is wise that we should come up with a large and broad investment package. I mentioned the subjects. I have also said that this is happening in a lot of different groups. I think that's wise. I am thinking in particular of the middle class, where many have seen the burden increased in recent years. Mr. Dijkgraaf quoted King Joseph for a reason yesterday. There is, of course, a certain vulnerability in spending. Let's just not beat around the bush. The consequence, as far as I am concerned, is that we should leave it at that. I was very pleased that Mr Azarkan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Snels and Mr Bruins all said yesterday: it was something like that; be careful not to spend any more. I see that as an important support in the back. Maybe through you, Mr President, I can ask them to take that idea up with their colleagues in the political groups, because that is where it gets complicated. I can assure Mr Dijkgraaf that I have also had intrusive discussions with the other members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	I find that reassuring. If I make proposals that go against that rule in the future, I know the answer. That's good. But I'd like to ask the Minister for an appreciation. The economy is doing well. We have good circumstances. And now we're gonna sit on the risk side: this can just happen. Those are not the lessons of King Joseph. Now you should be filling up those cornsheds instead of sitting on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	Before a misunderstanding arises, I really think what we are doing is justified. I think there is a very important desire to invest in society and in politics. I also think that we are also helped by the good economy and the situation in which the Netherlands finds itself. Let me compliment my predecessor and the previous cabinet. It is also true that we have a small surplus in the coming years. We also see that we are getting further and further below that 60% threshold if we continue to pursue the policy as we have now planned. We are talking about 45% to 46%. That's really much lower than what we were on. I therefore believe that this package is very explanatory. Of course, this is another en-en-story. But it is true that we could have also chosen to put a lot more on the shelf for bad times, as King Joseph has done. The Council of State has also pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	Finally, Mr President. Assuming 2.3% growth is on the positive side. The shelf life balance is 3 billion negative. In the case of the Defense Department, there's gonna have to be a lot more money in the next few years. There's a lot of healthcare coming up. And there is the Brexit, as well as a debate in Europe that can lead to all kinds of problems around the euro and the ECB. If I were Minister of Finance, I'd be scratching behind my ears every now and then: what package exactly did they saddle me with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	I wish, of course, many people in the Chamber, as well as in the Cabinet, who share and actively promote Mr Dijkgraaf's line. He just has a point here; let's be honest about that. At the same time, I would like to make it quite clear that this is justified. I think it's really wise for society to make that investment. Nor do I think that we are running unacceptable risks with the budget. But it is true that, where some of the trade ministers are perhaps looking more closely at what is happening in their policy areas, I will also be watching very closely how numbers develop. It doesn't say anything for nothing: the table is leading. That may be an immediate answer to a question that was asked yesterday. I think we all know about what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	I have a supplementary question: how does the Minister appreciate Mr Knot's comment, which indicates that you should actually reserve 1% of GDP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	As an encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Are you going to do something with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Well, I see it as an encouragement. We have a surplus in the coming years. We also felt that we should opt for investment. To be honest, I am positively surprised by what Mr Azarkan said yesterday about financial soundness. On the other hand, we hear that it should actually be much more; Mrs Leijten has just said that. I think that this is a good balance, with sound public finances being good for the long term, but on the other hand we are responding to the wishes of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	I note that the Minister welcomes the advice of important studies, but does not take sufficient action. If the Council of State also asks why you would count on years of growth of 2%, if De Nederlandsche Bank also says that you have to keep 1%, then I understand that the Minister says: I think that's fantastic advice, but I'm just not doing anything with it, because this is the package that I have to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	I think it's subtle, but maybe I should leave that for now. Let me go into one more question in this block. Mr Nijboer mentioned the additional post. He was extremely complimentary, if I may interpret his words in this way. Of course, it was a lovely question. The thrust of the question was about how I managed to persuade colleagues to put the 7 billion in investment first in my ministry. Let me not make reality more beautiful than it is. Of course, the difficult word for 'pre-meeting' and also in the first Councils of Ministers are already being discussed about money. I think you can sort of imagine how strong I am in these debates and, as far as I am concerned, should be. But there is something else going on here too, because this is the normal method, whereby additional money comes first to Finance. This is awaiting concrete and effective policy proposals. I think that's wise, too. In order to reassure colleagues in the cabinet and perhaps also to reassure Mr Nijboer, I would say that the Minister of Finance cannot decide that he should keep that money for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	I can't wait to see what it is. The Minister rightly started his speech by saying: I am here as Minister of Finance, I am in favour of efficient public spending. I think that's very important. There's over 7 billion on it. I am therefore curious to know what the Minister's criteria are and when he says to a minister: there is a few hundred million for this fine proposal, but you cannot come to me with this proposal; you will not get the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	Of course, it would be great if it were to go as it is said, but it is still the continuation of the existing system. It's just a lot of money in this case. Maybe that's where the confusion comes from. Extra money always starts at the additional post of the Ministry of Finance. Then there is a dialogue, first at official level and then at political level if necessary, on the concrete implementation of certain plans. I think that's wise, because we all know that you can spend that money, even if it's reserved, in different ways. As far as I'm concerned, that methodology is sensible. It is not in question that this money should ultimately be sent to the ministries for the subjects for which it is allocated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	That was in the past. I have had these debates on Defence and on Security and Justice in particular. The Minister of Finance's argument was: it comes to the supplementary post and if we throw it in there, it is a big black hole and does not end up with military or wherever we wanted it to go. That was the argument. I thought it was right, because it was. If it is on the supplementary and the Minister of Finance wants efficient spending, I do expect that there will be some sort of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	And I also find it very special that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Wouter Koolmees, is in the supplementary post for a sum of nothing. The other ministers are all in full swing, but he has kept control of his own budget. So I wonder what the argument is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	I believe that Mr Nijboer and I are very far and perhaps even completely in agreement on this issue. See, that money is put there with the purposeful thought to allocate it to the posts as included in the coalition agreement. That's perfectly valid. It would be strange if there was a sound plan, then a finance minister would say: I will still train in the transfer of money. It shouldn't be. Mr Nijboer is also referring to the other side, and I very much agree with that. At the moment when a colleague of mine would come and say "there is a nice round amount, I would like to have it and I think about the plan afterwards," that would not be neat towards the Dutch who have raised that money. I'll be very strict about that, too. I would also like to refer back to the beginning. It is always extremely complicated in politics to look at the efficiency of spending, but I think there is still a profit to be made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	It's about a lot of money, over 7 billion structuralally. I would very much like to know what the balancing criteria are. When will the Minister receive his money or not, when will it be effective? As a Member of Parliament, I would also like to be able to check whether you are performing your duties in relation to that supplementary post.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	In general, I would like to agree with Mr Nijboer. I think I'd make it very complicated for the officials if I promised that generically. Mr Nijboer will be able to imagine that this is a dialogue at official level on every rule. Perhaps he will allow me to study how I can respond to his question without making any decision and choice about efficiency here subject to discussion, because that is simply not functional.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	The Ministry of Finance as guardian of all kinds of expenses in other ministries. I believe that anyone who has been on a committee other than Finance knows what kind of terror that could be. That's not so much about spending anything, it's about spending something. Is this Minister prepared not to allow the models used by Finance to lead expenditure and costs, but simply to listen to ministries that say: it is in the models, but in practice it really works very differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	I really distance myself from Mrs Leijten's qualification. I have just said something about the combination on the one hand of a very broad and, as far as I am concerned, a sensible package of expenditure on defence, education; I will not mention them all again, and on the other hand the realization that there is also a very strong logic to keep that small for the Dutch and also for the Dutch who will live in the future. Mr Dijkgraaf didn't bring that up for nothing. So I would also stand for that sound budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	Investing in prevention or, for example, in smaller classes comes from the models of finance only as a cost, while we all know that in logic it is very good to pay more attention to your students so that they grow up well-trained. That has economic value in the future. But the finance models can't handle that. That's what I'm talking about. There is a laughing matter here: all these other committees just want to spend money. But there are specialists who look at reality, who do research into how something works. They sometimes come up with very good proposals and then the Ministry of Finance, and often also the financial spokesmen in the Chamber, says: that is impossible because it does not fit in with the models. How does the Minister deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Here, of course, Mrs Leijten is avenged to know not only a great deal about finances but also about public health. But I think I can reach out to her at one point. Of course, it is right that things such as prevention are important. That is also stated in the coalition agreement. A wider debate on public health is still possible. Some of them flew in yesterday. Many have flown it from the cost side, I think that is quite right, but you have indicated that it should also be about health gains. This debate must not be completed until the very last minute, but with the US ministers. I think it should have a place in that broader debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	My formulations are sometimes sharp. My irritation about how VWS was sometimes kept in line by Finance because it was not allowed to do certain meaningful things for the future, I also formulated. But my question was initially whether the officials at the ministry and ultimately this minister will also listen to other officials and examples from practice about how something can work without fitting in with the models of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	This is a kind of debate question that does not have a good answer. Are the officials going to listen, yes or no? Of course we are not deaf to noises from society. Of course, we must look at the effectiveness of policies. But the other side is equally true. Of course, we must also look at the effects that policy has on the treasury. I thought I would reach out to Mrs Leijten, specifically where prevention is concerned. I really think that this is an important debate to have as a society, precisely because we realize that there is going to be an incredible amount of money being spent in the field of VWS. That's where this has to take place. I would also like to thank the ministers of the United States of America for their enthusiasm, but that is, I think, what I have to say about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	Then I suggest that you move on and move quickly to the following points. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	Earlier I heard Mr. Hoekstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	The Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	... who speaks here as Minister of Finance, say he is in favour of anti-cyclical fiscal policy. How does he look back on Mr Rutte's policy in recent years? That was clearly procyclical; I have the graph here. According to ING, we lost at least 6% of economic growth by cutting back in 2013, in the middle of the crisis, rather than investing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	I think language is very important here. I have, of course, studied Mr Baudet's graph with great attention. It wasn't entirely new. He's a little dated, but I know the report. What I have said is that the report of the Study Group on Budgets has tried to add anti-cyclical elements to an economy that is naturally relatively pro-cyclical. I think I can put it that way. We have a very open economy. Many here will have noticed how the economy seemed to be going rather badly not so long ago. And then suddenly, at the 2015 Financial Reviews, there was 5 billion to distribute. That went at a huge pace. The economy is very influential in the international economic situation and is also vulnerable. That is why I said in relation to that report that it is wise to maintain that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	And "sustaining that line" is, in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	The line discussed in the study group's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	In other words, you are very critical of Mr Rutte's policy, you think it is a bad decision, just like the Democracy Forum, which believes that cuts have been made at the bottom of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr Baudet is also a great debater. I'm looking forward to the cut that's being made in the movies. I didn't say anything about the policy of the past period. I don't think that's appropriate here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	That is why I would like to ask you a moment more, because Mr Hoekstra, the Minister for Finance, does not answer my question. I am very curious, also to get a bit of a picture of the kind of financial policy he would like to pursue, how he looks back on that decision in 2013, the decision to cut back at the low point of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think it's been analyzed by all kinds of agencies. That takes place afterwards. That is where you can try to draw lessons for the future, but it is not my place to devote a broad consideration to that, and I am not going to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	Or was it Mr. Snels? Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	Anticyclical or procyclical. In that connection, the following question. The Minister is not so much looking back, but also forward to the fact that it is not indexed and interest rates are falling. Then you get a lower calculation rate, because of the financial review framework, and that means that pensions are not indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	No introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman. As a result, if there is a downturn, interest rates fall, reducing pensions, reducing spending. It strengthens the decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	I am aware of Mr Van Rooijen's particular interest in this subject. I think he knows what was agreed in the coalition agreement. I would like to go into that further, but I do not think we should bring the debate on his own initiative law to our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	My question was very brief as to whether the Minister agrees that if interest rates fall and, as a result, pension rates fall, this is a procyclical strengthening of the downturn. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	I think that is true in some cases, but I am not going to answer it now with a yes or a no. For Mr Van Rooijen also knows that few dossiers are as complex as this and that there is a combination of several factors going on there. I would like to leave it at that, if Mr Van Rooijen agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	Finally. For the forthcoming debates, I would like to draw the Minister's attention only to the 2013 SER report, which explicitly stated that this was a major problem. They had a solution to that by putting that risk storage on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	Yes. Mr Van Rooijen and I have already had an exchange of views on this subject, in a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	In the written answer I received a technical answer to my question on budgetary rules and the main agreements in the care sector. Is the Minister going to go into that further? Otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	Care came in the second block. But I have the impression that the President wants me to make even more haste. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	This is very specific about the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	Well, I guess I'll just ask the question. I support the cabinet in controlling the cost of care, especially when it comes to the cure. But what I have great difficulty with is that if it succeeds in reducing the cost of care in the cure, then the nominal premiums will be moderated and citizens will be directly burdened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	I understand that's a very complicated methodology. If it's okay, there's already written answers in there. Perhaps I could refer to that and tell you the broader story about care in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	I have read that written reply. I understand the technique, but I don't agree with the technique. This is about budgetary rules. You know, it's in a footnote to the coalition agreement, I believe on page 60: if it succeeds in curbing the increase in nominal premiums, then the people in the country are happy with it, then the rate in the first disc goes up. Actually, I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	I would like to come back to that in a moment, but I think most of what is to be said about it is in that letter. I understand that, technically, that leads to some confusion. Fortunately, it seems clear what the technique is like. It's not new, by the way. If I get the opportunity to continue, I'll come back to that in a moment, if necessary. I'm afraid that could also apply here: we agree to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr Snels, finally. This point comes back. The Minister has said that twice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	Sure, but I think he'll come back to health care and this is about the budget rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	What I'm worried about is this. I think the cabinet needs support in society to reduce the cost of care a little bit. It doesn't help citizens, so what do you do about the support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm gonna say something about the care in a minute. Of course, it is absolutely true that this is about budgetary rules, but I would like to refer to the answer. If that written answer is insufficient, I would like to return to it in the second term. But once again, there is not much room for manoeuvre in the agreements that have been made, however unsatisfactory that may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	In fact, I would like to suggest that the Minister finishes this block and the following points and see if there are any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yes, Mr. Chairman, there are certainly, but more questions have been asked about Block 1. I've answered it for a very large part, but not all of them. Maybe I can try to take it off in writing as much as I can?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	Someone's gonna ring the bell if I make this one or that one considerably inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes. I think everyone's okay with it. Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	About block one...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	I thought we just finished that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yeah, but this is a pretty crucial question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	That's all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	The minister says we are giving the economy a boost of 14.5 billion. The government spends 8 billion, so-called 6 billion to reduce the burden on citizens. My question is: why are public spending structural and does this so-called reduction in the burden on citizens stop? Structurally, that's no big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	I think that's a good idea. Of course, you can always argue that it should have been more. I think there is balance in the package, both in the short and in the long term. There is also a balance in spending versus public finances. To be honest, I do not have much to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	You will then have to re-read the coalition agreement Trust in the future, because it says that the reduction of charges is a structural increase of 600 million and that public expenditure goes through structuralally to 9 billion. In other words, the government takes good care of itself, even after 2021, but stops giving citizens extra money in the wallet by 2021, because then it turns into a burden increase. That's the honest story. That's what the coalition agreement says. What do you mean you don't have anything to add to that? You owe people an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	I believe that what I have said and what is in the coalition agreement is being caricatured. Again, there's a lot of stuff in there about charges and relief. Mr Van Dijck obviously does not like the way that trend line is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	Then I suggest that you move on to the following subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned that the cabinet invests in facilities that belong to everyone. That's the second block. Everyone must be assured of a safe, caring and close society. That's why we invest in defence, police, care and education. Those subjects just came by. These sectors need support and appreciation and space for the professionals working there. I would like to point out to Mrs Leijten that I very much agree with her in this regard. Oh, she's... No, she's still here. I very much agree with her that the domestic economy is of great importance. That is precisely why the cabinet also invests in public services, such as education, including teachers' working conditions, and in security. In addition, the burden on households and businesses is reduced. This also leads to higher consumption and higher investment in the Netherlands. According to the CPB, the coalition agreement leads to a slightly lower growth of exports. We should not underestimate the importance of these exports either, because according to the CBS, the Netherlands earns about one third of GDP abroad. So there are a lot of workers who benefit from these exports. So I really think it's a story of and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to say a few words about some of the issues we are investing in. I'll start with Security and Justice. In 2017, the Netherlands faces a number of major security challenges. It is crucial to continue investing in that security and to reserve additional resources for cybersecurity, counter-terrorism, the police and also the criminal justice chain. In the coalition agreement, 414 million, half a billion, are structurally released for security. It is good to point out that this is on top of the 67 billion that was already included in the Prince's Daypieces. Mr Omtzigt has asked me about the readiness and equipment of the Special Unit, or perhaps I should say 'units', for counter-terrorism. I think he is also aware that additional resources have been made available to the Special Intervention Service in recent years. I have just checked and I understand that the expansion of DSI is in full swing and that there will be another progress report in December. I can also explain that there has been an intensification of 10 million in 2017. I would also like to say to Mr Omtzig that I am also explicitly discussing his question with the Minister of Defence, because the members of the KCT, the Marine Corps and a number of other units must go on the road with excellent material, especially if they are to risk their lives for our peace and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	Sorry, Mr Omtzigt, but I want the Minister to finish this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	About Defense and his question I was done, Chairman. I'll continue my education after this. I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	The Omtzigt's question is about Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	Yeah, it's about the last point. I thank the Minister for this commitment. We had a progress report on the equipment over a year ago. I would like the same progress report to be kept confidential in the same way. At the level of detail, however, I asked what was going on with the equipment of these troops, both clothing and weapons equipment. I hope that information for the defence budget could be here. I hope the Minister will be able to pass this on to the DOD leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	Perhaps I can do so in such a way that I promise Mr Omtzigt that I will give her this express wish from him and from the Chamber and then give her the opportunity to respond to it. It seems complicated to me to make this specific commitment on its behalf. I would like to say that I will talk and insist on this letter, precisely because I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt on the need for excellent equipment for all the people of the armed forces, but for these in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. Then we'll hear from the Secretary of Defense what she's doing with this. Since it is a request for information, it is entirely subject to the constitutional right of the Chamber to receive this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I come to education, research, culture and media. The cabinet provides an additional 1.6 billion for education, research, culture and media. It's, I think, good to remind you that primary education gets over 700 million. This gives schools the opportunity to reduce the workload and improve teachers' working conditions. The cabinet also allocates EUR 170 million a year to strengthen pre-school and early school education. The tuition fees for first-year students in higher education are reduced. This costs EUR 175 million in the long term. On the other hand, the members of your Chamber will also have seen the increase in interest on student loans. There is also considerable money spent on fundamental and applied research. Together, that's 400 million, twice 200 million, which then comes down to different ministries. That brings me to the questions about primary education. The first question of the PvdA is why only half of the requirements of education are met. Why not the other half? That brings us back a little bit to the discussion on the balance sheet, however much I understand Mr Nijboer's question. We invest 1.6 billion on a structural basis. In 2021, that's 1.9 billion. I think that this is a very substantial and, by the way, very sensible investment. Most of this investment then goes to primary education. I believe that this investment also underlines the importance of primary education. At the same time, and Mr Nijboer will realise this, the cabinet cannot meet all the wishes, even those of education, one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mr Nijboer's brief question on education, I understand. That point was done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	No, I'm going further on education, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then I'll wait and see. Sorry, Mr. Nijboer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	Then there is the education deficit policy. The question was whether there was a cut in the budget, and I believe that GroenLinks asked whether, for example, 75 million from the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund could be added to it. In addition, it is important to stress that we invest heavily in educational backwardness policies, i.e. 170 million from 2019 onwards in pre- and early-school education, as you yourself said, and 15 million in 2018 and 30 million from 2019. This also includes the attention for highly gifted children. In the current series on the budget of OCW there is a dip in the budget of 2018. This is not the result of a reduction but an estimate adjustment from 2015, which has to do with falling numbers of pupils. That dip is already known and I am with the Minister of Education, and I have to say it just as well, because of that there are now more basic and continuing education and the Media looking for a solution to this problem. Perhaps I should add one more thing before the enthusiasm is too high: it is the intention to inform the Chamber for the budget procedure, which I believe will be on the agenda at the beginning of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	This part, too, about education, is done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	No, I've got a lot more. Mrs Leijten also asked questions about education and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	I'm gonna make the proposal to deal with everything that has to do with education first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	Excellent. Mrs Leijten was still talking about the austerity. It was about measure G46 on more effective education, if I have understood her correctly. In a number of steps, it will save 183 million on education and research in 2021, which will also cover an old mission in the budget of OCW. The commitment is to avoid the primary process as much as possible. The precise effect of this measure, I would add, is that of Mrs Leijten, the Minister of OCW and the Minister for BVOM. They will also involve the education sectors as much as possible. However, it is perhaps a good thing to say that, in addition to this saving, the cabinet is spending a very substantial amount of 1.6 billion, up to 1.9 billion in 2021. That's all about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr Nijboer, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	I have a question about the primary school teachers. They strike in great numbers; that hasn't happened in years. The big political question is: why doesn't the cabinet give them the appreciation, the salary, but also the reduction in the workload? And this while there are tens of thousands of teachers here on the Malieveld to get their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	The dividend tax, one of Mr Nijboer's hobbies, I think we will be talking in a moment. So let me not try...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	That's not a hobby; that's serious money. It's about serious people who are on strike and getting zero on the record from the cabinet. I'm not gonna let you put me away with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	This isn't a hobby. This is about real political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	No, but still in full focus. There has just been a roll-call vote here twice. The result was that we will be discussing this subject in a moment. Then I'll answer that as well as I can. But I do not think the link between these two issues is correct. Let me explain why, too. On the contrary, this cabinet makes a very substantial investment in primary education. Mr Nijboer wants more. He seems to think that's justified, too. Frankly, I think that 1.6 billion for education, of which a very large piece, over 700 million, goes to primary education, is a very justifiable choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	We are talking about political choices here. That's the way it is in the House of Representatives. The cabinet opts for 1.4 billion for foreign investors, for shareholders, and not for striking teachers who do not get the appreciation they deserve. I call the Minister to that. He says it's enough, but those teachers are right. They're gonna strike again, because they don't think it's enough. I'm in favour of that. That's not a hobby. Those are serious choices that this minister stands for and the PvdA withdraws from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr Nijboer has put something in my mouth that I have not said. It is very important to invest in education. It is also very important to invest in primary education. Honestly, I think the Cabinet is doing the same. That was already the intention of the previous cabinet in its days. This cabinet is going through that line. Is that the full pound? If you ask the teachers, maybe not at all. But I think it is a very justifiable consideration, even if you look at the total expenditure package that we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	No, it's not "not at all"; it's "not at all." Teachers rarely strike. Classes are closing. Teachers go on with their strike, and they're right about that, because they don't get enough pay, and the workload and stress are too high. In these times, when there is so much money and money is being distributed to foreign shareholders, I really think that is the wrong political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	I repeat: 720 million is invested in it. I wouldn't want to pretend that's nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	The door's ajar. Good proposals are always considered. I would like to discuss our locational environment, which is partly determined by a well-educated population, an even society, because that is a safer and more democratic society. There is now 1.4 billion being given away to foreign countries. If we say to Shell and Unilever: stay in the Netherlands, you will have a well-educated population and we will put another 700 million in education. Then we'll have no more striking teachers, and then we'll train our future. This is incredibly good for the locational environment: a bit for businesses, but everything for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'm going to say something about the locational climate in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	That makes the discussion a bit complicated, because that is covered in section 4, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	Since Mrs Leijten is talking about what's new, my conclusion was actually that she felt that I had answered her question to her full satisfaction. But maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	We're looking. In my term, I also asked whether it is the right choice to abolish the dividend tax and reduce the tax on profits if there are still striking teachers and food banks and if 400,000 children are still growing up in poverty. Is that the right choice? We're from different parties. It is quite clear that there is a difference between the new cabinet and the SP. That may be so, but I am making a proposal here because we have been told the whole time that the door is ajar. I propose that we not give the 700 million to foreign investors and foreign treasury, but that we put it into the future of our society, namely in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	I'm gonna ask for permission to talk about education now, because that's what I'm doing. Of course, I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that it is about political choices and that the political choice of the cabinet with regard to the locational environment and the dividend tax should also be part of this. But I'd still like to stick to the order we agreed on earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	It depends on how much longer you think you need to get to this point, because that is what everyone is actually waiting for. Almost everyone has asked questions about that. Then it's gonna get a little messed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	That is possible, but a letter has also been requested, and I think I simply need to discuss it. It's hard for me to meet all these wishes at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	Then I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	The Chamber will forgive me for that, too. I can't talk about it right now and then talk about a letter I haven't even talked about yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	Fine. Then it is clear that this does not come up now because that letter is still to come. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	When it comes to the locational climate, I will ask the question again. I think it's kind of crazy that it can't be linked together, because we're talking about the whole budget and the whole package, right? The Minister says all the time: little will change because it is completely agreed. We are also talking here about whether alternatives are still possible. If every alternative that is proposed is said to be in the next block, it will be a complicated debate. Anyway, OK, I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	Let me say one specific thing about this, because I will at least answer Mrs Leijten in this block. The answer is no. I just told you that the door to the Treves Room is wide open. We talked about the outstretched hand and the warm hand. But building a coalition agreement in the Netherlands is an extremely complicated thing. We have all experienced this in the past few months, whether we were directly or less directly involved. Of course, it is not possible for the Minister of Finance or any govern ment representative to say in the first debate the best: you know what, I'll take a card out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	It is now clear that the issue of dividend taxation in relation to other things cannot be discussed at the moment. So let us not go back to the same point over and over again. Maybe later. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	Sometimes we disagree in this debate on very important issues, and then it is often also about a lot of money. Sometimes it's about solving small problems. The Minister talked about the education deficit policy. I would just like to say a few words about that. The Minister said that there is an estimate adjustment which means that there is a dip in expenditure in 2018. In my view, this has to do with a changing definition of what are educational disadvantages. I appreciate the Minister talking to his colleagues. I would like to receive this letter not only before the Education budget, but perhaps also before the treatment of the Municipal Fund. In that case, our educational spokesmen may be able to make amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	We must, I think, be precise, also to prevent something from being put in my mouth that I have not said. Let me be very specific. In the current series on the budget of OCW there is a dip in the budget in 2018. It's not the result of a cut in the budget. Maybe I can conclude that we both think that's good news. It is an estimate adjustment from 2015. That dip is well known and I have said that I am in agreement with the Minister for Education and the Media to look for a solution. The Chamber shall be informed of this for the budget treatment of OCW. What I didn't say, and what I can't say, is that a transfer from the Municipal and Provincial Funds would be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	In my view, the problem with the adjustment of estimates is precisely what the definition of educational disadvantages is. That is a technical problem. In order to give the Chamber the opportunity to take action itself through amendments to the Municipal Fund and Education, I would like to have that letter from your colleague and you on education before the BZK budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	I'd like to check with all kinds of pleasure, but I'd like to see how that cycle is planned, because I don't know it. Mr Snels will understand that at the moment I cannot commit to something that I do not have an overview of at the moment. He has my word that I will do my best, but I cannot give him any guarantees about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	I'm also an educational spokesperson. I myself had the impression that we have written an incredibly beautiful text for this coalition agreement with the four parties. So you understand that I got very nervous when all kinds of opposition politicians came up on my Twit timeline saying: look, education is being cut! Each budget has minuses and pluses. On the one hand, there are reversals, targets and estimation adjustments. On the other hand, there are these additional investments. Can the Minister confirm to me that if you add up all these loves and pluses, there will be more investment in the p.o., more investment in the vo, more investment in the MBO and more investment in higher education and research, in all the years of the upcoming cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yes, I have the impression that this is indeed the case. It amounts to 1.6 billion up to 1.9 billion. I have mentioned a number of amounts, and I know they go through. Those two times 200 billion, or two times 200 million, I am not going to overdo it for fundamental and applied research. Investment in teachers' salaries continues. As far as I know, almost all this spending goes on. Let me say to Mr Bruins that I will answer exactly that question for a moment, because then we can all look at what these expenditures look like. But I honestly have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	Then I'll be in care. We were just talking about that. It is important, I think, to highlight in all discussions on care that Dutch care belongs to the best in Europe. At the same time, Dutch people are so concerned about few subjects as much as about care and whether it remains available and affordable. The cabinet is committed to keeping a good quality care and also affordable for everyone. For example, older people should be able to rely on good care in their nursing home and the cabinet also embraces the new standards for good nursing home care. In order to keep the care affordable, the maximum mandatory own risk is frozen at €385 per year, which has also been exchanged previously. Colleagues Sneller, Nijboer, Bruins and I think one or two others have expressed their justified concerns about the manageability and affordability of care. As I have said, I share their concerns and will work with colleagues during this cabinet period to control healthcare expenditure. I might also outline that this is a dilemma. Because on the one hand there is no subject that Dutch people are so worried about as much as the care and on the other hand you also have to acknowledge that the expenditure is very high and could go much further. So we really need to do something about that. I was asked whether I deliberately put that table in the material. Yes, I have deliberately put it in the material and I have also shared it with colleagues in the cabinet, because I think this is an important part of the discussion. It is really good, I think, to point out that in the long term such growth in healthcare expenditure is not sustainable, because it puts aside expenditure on all the other issues that we consider important, whether it be defence or education, which we have just talked about, or justice. So it's en-and. We need to talk about the quality of care, but we also need to talk about the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	Is this the end of the subject of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	No, I come to a number of questions from Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	Then I suggest you do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	Then I'll have something else after that. The PVV's question was how much the healthcare premium was in 2021. I would like to say that as healthcare expenditure increases, so does the healthcare premium. That won't be a surprise. The Cabinet and the CPB are currently taking into account a nominal Zvw premium of around €1,600 per year in 2021. But as Mr Van Dijck knows, that is an assessment we are making at the moment. Mr Omtzigt has also asked a very specific question. He asked about the Scientific Council for Government Policy. He asked whether we could also look at affordability and sustainability in other countries. I would like to give him my word, but I would also like to ask him here to give me an opportunity to consult with the two leaders of VWS. For there I can reach out to Mrs Leijten, I think, for this is really more than just a financial dossier. This is also really about health gains and how to achieve them. Of course, there is a clear financial component in it, but there is also a very clear social component in it. So, as far as I am concerned, that debate should not only be conducted from finance, but also from the other members of the cabinet, and I also think with other members of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	Don't build in any silences, because then they'll all stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	Oh, excuse me. Just keep cackling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	Keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	Well, I'm almost done with the care. No, let me just hold on a second. It can be done very quickly. I'll do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	I'm worried about the health insurance. So, what's going on? The coalition agreement contains an agreement of 2 billion which is hoped to be concluded. That would mean that the care premium would go down. He will, but the government will plow that right back through an increase in taxes. The question is whether the €1,600 you just mentioned as a care premium for 2021 including that reduction is after the conclusion of the main agreement. Or is he gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	This is the assessment of the Cabinet and the CPB. Mr Van Dijck also knows that both the Cabinet and the CPB make an assessment of the so-called care agreements. So it's in there, too. Mr Van Dijck will also not be unaware that the CPB's assessment is slightly different from that of the cabinet. This was exactly the same in the previous period. Perhaps it is also good to say to Mr Van Dijck that the level of premiums is still subject to change. It is an assessment that we are currently doing to the best of our knowledge, but ultimately that premium is determined in competition between health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	It's important, though. If this is €1,600 including the main agreement, this means that it is actually €150 more. A global agreement of 2 billion means €150 more premium. However, you do not do this in the premium, but in taxes. So people are going to pay more taxes to compensate for the lower premium. How much is the lower bounty? It is actually €150 more than the €1,600 you are now mentioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	I think there are two things: the question about the health agreements and the question we have just exchanged about the relationship with taxation. I think I have already indicated that I will put this on paper. Here's what I'm suggesting. Let me also take with me the relationship with the healthcare agreements and then come back to that in the second term. Then I will be as complete as possible in my answer at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	I understand very well that the Minister wishes to speak to two or three of VWS leaders in order to clarify the question, but I would like to conduct the debate here politically on the basis of such a WRR report or on the basis of a similar study. If there's an alternative, please. Will the Minister, together with the US ministers, inform us about it in a month or so, whether such a request is being made and how it is going to proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	Sure. Such a role automatically makes you very economical, but perhaps in my reply I have been a little too economical to Mr Omtzigt. I think it's a good idea for the WRR to look into it. I think it is useful to see how this is done in other countries. However, because I sympathise with Mrs Leijten and others who say that it is more than just money, I have also proposed to have the conversation in the cabinet, for the simple reason that I think you are failing reality if you look at it only through financial glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	I think that's a good step. You can't just talk about healthcare costs if we know that healthcare is almost priceless the moment you're sick or become a next of kin. I can give endless examples of where there is money in healthcare, but let me not do that. If the Minister is going to talk to the WRR, is he prepared to consider whether it is possible for us to get a calculation of the medium- and long-term effects if we reduce health differences? What is the result of economic growth and reduction in healthcare costs? I think that would be very good for the debate, which is now only about the short term, while we are also talking about the long term in the area of health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	I would, of course, like to gag both leaders on VWS in all possible ways, but I think it is also fair for me to give them the opportunity to talk to me. I think we still have a discussion with the WRR anyway, because the Chamber knows that the WRR is ultimately about its own work programme. I think it would be wise for me to discuss the sounds I have heard in Chambers with one government person or both of VWS leaders and then, as a cabinet, to engage in the conversation with the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	I was actually looking for an opening. The Minister deliberately included in his Start note the expected increase in the cost of care. Well, those estimates and predictions have never really been made in the past. As long as I live, at least as long as I can read newspapers and watch the news, I hear "ooh, care costs are rising," and yet we are still an economically prosperous country, even though they have risen. So there's also a certain degree of permanent panic in it, which I don't think is necessary. What I asked for was whether we could also work towards the short-term calculation and the cost perspective of reducing the socio-economic health gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	I heard Mrs Leijten. Whatever I had to promise to do about it, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr Van Dijck just spoke about the increase in the nominal care premium to perhaps €1,600. My question is whether perhaps in the second term the Minister can also comment on the consequences of this on the income-dependent care premium paid by the employer and, moreover, only by the pensioners, because the self-employed are practically excluded from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u212	Sure. I have not only hidden these tables in all kinds of pieces towards the other ministers and in the documents before the Chamber, but there is also a booklet now made by an intern at the Ministry, the so-called blue booklet. The great blue book contains all kinds of miserable things that rulers have to comply with. The little blue book is about all kinds of information that is financial but also all the topics that come along. So there's this in there, too. There was a lot of interest in it, so I also brought a copy of it for the spokesperson, so that they can look back in that table. So much for the presents. I now turn to the subject of the labour market. A view of a permanent job is extremely important for many people. Labour market regulations can be better balanced in this cabinet. Many people want to work in a permanent job but fail to find it. Employers are reluctant to offer employees a fixed contract because of the risks and responsibilities involved. A number of flexible arrangements, such as payrolling, are sometimes improperly used. The overall package of measures in the labour market advocated by the Cabinet reduces institutional differences between flexible and permanent workers and creates clarity for contractors and clients when working as self-employed and also makes work more attractive. This is why more people are getting into work, working relationships are becoming more permanent and employment relationships are also better aligned with the nature of work and the preferences of workers. Mr Nijboer has asked me what I think of a five-month probation period. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the cabinet is aiming for a better balance between fixed and flexible contracts and to prevent employers from being reluctant to offer fixed contracts. We therefore believe that extending the probationary period will ensure a good balance and that, moreover, it will only apply for five months at the time when the employer immediately and from the outset offers permanent employment to the employee. But I see that Mr Nijboer has now left the Chamber in full satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr Nijboer is listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u214	Okay, excuse me, but I missed him in the bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u215	He's in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr Nijboer asked why people with lower incomes and heavier professions could not retire earlier. The cabinet does not rely on the advance of that pension but on the lifelong development and it can work until that AOW-right age for everyone. In our view, it is also the primary responsibility of employers and employees that employees remain employable. In doing so, the government will provide the necessary framework conditions. The cabinet therefore expects the social partners to make non-binding agreements on this matter. Mr President, I wanted to continue with the housing market, but I do not believe that we are ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u217	On the previous point, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u218	You are the guest and are well equipped with coffee and water. Sometimes I take a sip, too, but I get everything. That's why I just got behind. Both points create greater uncertainty for people at work: people who do heavy work and think they can't keep up and want to retire, or teachers who think they can't handle the class anymore. It's really a big theme and it keeps a lot of people busy. The only thing the cabinet actually says is that they have to go on for longer. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u219	Yeah, just those two things. Mr Nijboer also put the word "bird-free" in his mouth during the five-month probationary period. I really think that is an exaggeration that is not helpful in the debate. The cabinet says it wants to ensure that more people have a permanent job in a few minutes. The moment the employer says that there is a fixed contract from the first day, there is also room for a longer probation period. To be honest, I do not think that is unreasonable. The second question was about pensions. Mr Nijboer also knows that discussion. Three legislative proposals on the AOW age have been passed in this house: the first, under Camp, early 2012, then one at Kunduz and then the cabinet of the PvdA and the VVD has accelerated in the past cabinet period. It has always been chosen, also by the Labour Party, to choose the route in which the same rule applies to everyone and leave it to employees and employers to make and comply with agreements. I think that's a reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u220	I don't think that's true. About that "bird-free": during the probationary period, the employer can say every day you come to work it can be in the morning, it can be in the afternoon, it can even be in the evening it doesn't quite match. It doesn't matter. It's understandable that this is possible if he gives someone a permanent contract and says after a week that it doesn't fit. But that you could do this after a month and a half from one day to the next? People just have a family at home, they come to work and they say it doesn't match, we've done it for four and a half months...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u221	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u222	So I'm not okay with that. I think that's outlaw. I would like a response from the Minister. Surely that is not reasonable and balanced, all these terms, and in balance, as you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u223	In my opinion, Mr Nijboer and the cabinet agree on the desire to ensure more permanent contracts. I think that's a valid wish in society. That is something that Mr Nijboer and I and the cabinet agree on. But this is specifically about the situation in which an employer offers someone a fixed contract from day 1. Then there is a five-month probationary period in the cabinet's proposal. Mr Nijboer is obviously talking about his own words, but to put the word 'bird-free' on that now, I do not think that this broader discussion we have to have with each other is a helpful qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u224	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u225	Then I'm gonna ask you very precisely. Is it true that an employer after four months and ten days I am generous, so still well within those five months can say at any time without giving any reasons that an employee who had a fixed contract simply doesn't have to come the day after?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u226	I think Mr Nijboer can count very well, so if it had been four months, it would not have been possible; now it is five months. So then there's the possibility to cancel a contract, just like it is now on probation. So the arrangement currently in force for a probationary period will also apply in the future. I think it is excellent that I repeat this once again to move towards a situation in which more people have a fixed contract. I think that will provide more security and more trust in society. That is a movement we would like to make with Mr Nijboer. To be honest, I think this is an acceptable and highly defendable piece of puzzles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u227	It's usually been a month now, and it's going to be five months. At that time, people are in uncertainty. I do think that's outlawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u228	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u229	Mr. Chairman. I'm on the next subject, the housing market. He was hit hard by the crisis. In response, significant measures were taken during the previous cabinet period to reduce risks. In the meantime, a new situation has arisen. Housing prices are rising, in some places very hard, and the number of home transactions has again reached a record level. It is also in this changing context that we are trying to stick to the path that has been set in motion. The mortgage interest rate deduction is aligned with the basic rate in four steps and the proceeds are rerouted to a lower equity rate. At the same time, deduction is phased out very gradually, in 30 years, because of no or a small household debt. This is a subject which the Chamber is particularly interested in. The Secretary of State will say a few words about this in a moment. The introduction of that repayment requirement is an additional incentive for accelerated repayment, which is no longer necessary by the Hillen scheme. I would add from a financial point of view that it would also be extremely costly if we continued to do so. Finally, the maximum loan to value is maintained at 100%. In addition, the cabinet, as everyone will be aware, focuses on the housing and supply of, in particular, the middle rent and the sustainability of the housing stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u230	Were you done with this topic, the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u231	Yeah, I might have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u232	Then I'd do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u233	But I'm feeling a little haunted by you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u234	No, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u235	Another question has been asked by the Christian Union about housing market and affordability and to what extent the future of the viability of large cities is at stake. I think it is good to say that price increases make the housing market in some major cities less affordable and less accessible to parts of the population. I think we can all see that in our own environment. It is important when telling that whole story to say that the departure of families from the city really is something of all times. We've looked into that specifically. Of course, we all see that some places in the Netherlands are becoming extremely expensive, but that family migration of course also often has to do with other reasons than financial reasons, and that desire continues. Several measures have also been taken in recent years to increase the local capacity to steer that stock, although I would like to say immediately that more can be done about this. For example, the Spatial Planning Decision has been amended, whereby municipalities can explicitly include various housing categories, such as middle rents, in their zoning plan. I'm gonna go quietly, Mr. Chairman. Where there is scarcity, local authorities can use local planning to steer the stock and ensure the importance of various target groups and the city. Finally, I would like to add that my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will also deal with municipalities, developers and corporations. That was also announced in the coalition agreement. The housing stock must also be looked at. I hope that is also an answer to Mr Bruins' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u236	I assume that this point has now been completed. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u237	Mr President, on the housing market. I don't understand anything. The adage was always "hands off the mortgage interest deduction." Then there was an intervention in 2013. We shouldn't have had to do that, but that should bring peace and quiet again. "People know where they stand for the next 30 years, this is it," I still see Mark Rutte. It is now accelerated and the mortgage interest deduction is reduced in four major steps. What's the logical reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u238	I believe that here too we have tried to put together a package which is balanced and, in particular, creates even more dynamism in the housing market, if I may put it that way. The cabinet has chosen to come up with a two-disk rate and at the same time wants to ensure balance. Perhaps I could put both this question and Mr Van Rooijen's question on the Hills Act, which I saw just now, to the Secretary of State. He also really wants to see some of this party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u239	Well, no, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is about taxes, but this is a policy choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u240	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u241	This minister has a mouth full of peace, cleanliness and I know a lot more. Now we have peace in the housing market. People know what they're up to for the next 30 years. The air is slowly left out of the mortgage interest deduction with half a percent per year. And what does the Cabinet do? It throws an old appointment out the window and tells all homeowners that they only have to bleed, because it is reduced in three, four steps to 37%. That's not the deal. That's not the reliable government you want to be. That has nothing to do with peace and purity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u242	Well, I'm gonna say something about it for the sake of precision. Mr Van Dijck also knows the pictures about purchasing power. They show that homeowners in all categories will also improve in the coming years. Yes, it is true that in this context the cabinet has chosen to align the mortgage interest rate deduction with the basic rate in four steps. However, for the category of houses below 1 million, the proceeds are also channelled back through the lower house forfait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u243	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u244	People don't want to see that locked back. People just want you to stay off the mortgage interest deduction with your flicks. That was the deal two, three years ago. Now the Minister can say that it does not yield anything under the line, but people have signed a mortgage contract for tonnes of houses in recent years, knowing that the deduction will be reduced in small steps over the next 30 years. Now this cabinet says: we do it in three, four big steps and you get it back in your own home forfait. If the people had the choice, they'd rather have the mortgage interest deduction as it was than a lower private house credit. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u245	I do not know whether Mr Van Dijck and I are coming together entirely on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u246	I am, of course, looking forward to a festive discussion with the Secretary of State, but can the Minister, or else the Secretary of State, respond to the following? Is it not quite conceivable, following what Mr Van Dijck says, that if mortgage interest rates go to the base rate in four years, or the same scenario... Let me say it carefully. I'll get back to you this afternoon. The minister just said I was craving, but I was just walking back. This is a subject that I am in a hurry to discuss. I predict that in four years' time, another cabinet will reduce its 30 years. Then we are talking about a burden increase for older people of 1.1 billion in particular these weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u247	It gets very complicated to answer like-dan questions. I wouldn't venture to predict what a cabinet will do in four years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u248	But you can reduce the risk of my prediction by repealing that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u249	In theory, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u250	That was a short answer. I'm just gonna head back to that housing market. The big problem at the moment with social housing is that there is relatively little supply. Now such a house is still subsidised in the form of the rent allowance. We also see this with residential housing; they are also subsidised, namely with the mortgage interest deduction. What are you going to do specifically financially about this middle segment, which is such a screaming shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u251	I'm afraid I'm going to repeat myself. I have just said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to sit down with municipalities, developers and corporations. What Mr Azarkan and I have seen very clearly is that something must also be done about the housing stock. That's part of the solution. It also has to do with scarcity and that scarcity has to do with specific places. There are places in the Netherlands where house prices have barely risen. That has purely to do with the fact that there is just less demand there. In other places, it's the other way around. It is important that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes some haste about this. That is the place where the solutions have to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u252	I will put my questions to the BZK budget, including Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u253	Moreover, I very much support the concern expressed here. I think that's what the Cabinet is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u254	We will discuss this with the Minister of the Interior, but I haven't heard anything about affordable rents, although I have asked a lot of questions, both to my colleagues and to the Minister. Why cut rent payments at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u255	Let me make a comment on that. I am also trying to find a balance here between the pace advocated by the President and the fullness of the answers. Mr Nijboer has asked why buyers are being compensated, while tenants are being cut. I think it's really different. The tenants, like the homeowners, advance in the overall purchasing power picture. That's important to mark. For tenants, the average progress per year is 0.8%. The effect of the coalition agreement is 0.7%, which is exactly the same as for homeowners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u256	It would also be a major achievement if such an economic growth of 3% per year and more tenants were to decline. My point was this. Buyers are compensated one-on-one. There's a lot of debate about that, but they're being compensated one-on-one, while they're just cutting down on tenants. Buyers eventually advance 1.4% and tenants by 0.8%. This is partly because the cabinet deliberately cuts renters. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u257	It is also important here to tell the whole and honest story. It used to be a cry from Mr Samsom. I also heard Mr Van Dijck say it a few times yesterday. And I'd like to make that slogan mine, too. I think it is important to note that all groups are making progress: young and old, town and countryside, tenants and buyers. I'm just repeating that this progress is visible to the tenants. The effect of the coalition agreement is visible. Mr Nijboer wants more. I can understand that, but this is about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u258	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u259	This is pretty much it for the tenants. 3 million tenants, more than 40% of the people in a house, and they're just being cut back. "This is just a moment." I don't think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u260	No, it's still important to be here exactly. I invite Mr Nijboer and enthuse him to come back to the whole story. Maybe I can say the honest story. The fair story here is that all groups in the Netherlands are making progress. Immediately I admit to Mr Nijboer that in his view it is not enough for the tenants. In Mrs Leijten's view, it is not enough for people with lower incomes. For Mr Van Rooijen it is the elderly who get too little. That is all true, but the reality is that the cabinet has also tried to help society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u261	Now there's a hint that I wouldn't be honest, but there's just a cut on the rent allowance in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u262	Yes, and once again, tenants are also making net progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u263	There's a cut on the rent in the government agreement, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u264	I can keep repeating myself, Mr President, but I do not think it makes any sense. The discussion is continuous: are you picking out a measure that you don't like or are you willing to look at the whole thing? I insist that you look at all categories and that all categories, including tenants, are improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u265	This will be a repeat of questions and answers, Mr. Nijboer. One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u266	We have the mortgage interest deduction for buyers and we have rent allowance for tenants. That is simply being cut back, and I refer to this cabinet, but it is simply being talked about. I'm being pretended not to be honest, but I don't agree with that political choice. I think that the Minister should not go so far as to make that choice, but should simply say: I am cutting back on the rent payment, because I have chosen to do so for my miraculous reasons. I haven't figured out what these reasons are yet and I find this incomprehensible, but I'm not gonna let myself be fooled that I wouldn't be completely honest or honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u267	In the context of this purchasing power: can the Minister explain to me why it is just that someone who earns €25,000 is improving €210 and someone who earns €100,000 €1,400?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u268	I think there are also all kinds of purchasing power cards in the material that has just been distributed. I would like to go into this in a moment, but I would like to leave that discussion for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u269	You'll come back to it, I understand. Good. I suggest you move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u270	Yes. Now I would have liked to say a few words about energy, about the buffers at banks and so on. I suppose I could finish that for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u271	Yeah, sure. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u272	I will see if I can shorten the text here and there and concentrate on the questions, Mr President. I would like to turn to GroenLinks' question about the Council of State and the energy transition: how does the cabinet deal with the recommendation to show how and where the cost of climate policy will fall towards 2030? Let me start by saying that I can well imagine that question. The next question I have to ask is whether this is the right time and whether the Council of State will then be the appropriate body. I can imagine the wish very well, but there are a lot of sliding panels on the energy file. I would therefore like to agree that we should give Mr Wiebes some time and that I should like to share with him the need that exists here. Would it be okay if I put it that way? Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about the mileage tax on freight. His question was: can't that be faster? I can well imagine that question, because it has something remarkable, let me use that word, which the cabinet wants to do, as soon as possible, but that it still has a five-year introduction period. So I understand his impatience. I have had this explicitly checked and it has to do with the implementation. There has been a very good look at how much time it took abroad to get this introduced and what you have to take into account. I'm also quite impatient by nature. I often think things can go faster. The other side of the story is that we have seen more often on other files in the Netherlands that if you put too much pressure on the execution, you are left with something that looks just different than you would have wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u273	Were you ready? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u274	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u275	No, I mean with the subject of "energy."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u276	Oh, with energy? Yeah, well, about the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u277	Okay. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u278	There is no money in the coalition agreement because it is not yet certain that it is possible. I saw this in the plan of the three opposition parties, so you will understand that I am very much in favour of it if it does. But I still don't understand this, because we're copying Belgium's system here. That's where it's running. I am the first to stress the importance of careful implementation and feasibility, but it is a very long time. That is why I am asking the Minister to speed up the pace here. We will also come back to this in the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. It's one of two: it works, and then we have a more yield, or it doesn't work, and then it's extremely sad. But we're gonna hunt here at maximum speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u279	Once again, I can very well imagine Mr Van Weyenberg's impatience. Of course, he's seen speed as I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u280	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u281	So we'll soon agree on that. I would like to say a few words about the financial sector and the banks' buffers. It is clear that well capitalised banks are crucial for lending in the Netherlands and therefore also for private investment in the Dutch economy. There are rules on this in Europe. In the European debate, the Netherlands also focuses on strong buffers for banks, including with regard to the liquidity ratio. It is not yet clear, because the cabinet believes it is important that the Dutch demands should also be brought into line with European requirements in the coalition agreement. The groups of GroenLinks and DENK have asked whether that will mean that the leverage ratio will be reduced. I can very well imagine that question. I can say a few things about it, but I think it would be wise not to pre-empt the negotiations that are currently going on on Basel, but to let the ball do the work there. I think the approach is the same as you reason from the thought that a little more likely is safer than a little less. But we also need to take a look at what we are achieving in Europe with the overall package. Mr Omtzig asked, also in the banking and buffer category, whether the directors would like to work for a stronger banking sector. He mentioned, among other things, that there are serious concerns about the Italian banks. Important steps have been taken in recent years to increase resilience, but I am the first to acknowledge. I am about to tell you about my visit to Brussels.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. There are European negotiations on risk reduction and there is still a strong debate on risk reduction first and then risk sharing or, as some countries would like to imagine, in a different way. This includes the level of bank buffers to enable bail-in and the leverage ratio. This is where the cabinet focuses on tightening the rules. But I see very well, like Mr Omtzigt, that the discussion about the NPLs is a tough and difficult discussion, and I believe that we in the Netherlands are all pulling on the same side of the rope. Mr Omtzigt made another comment on interest rate derivatives. That is a very different kind of file, but of course there is a lot of pain in that too. He specifically asked me if I'm willing to turn the thumb screws on even more. I think those were his words. The restoration framework was drawn up by experts at the request of my predecessor. This is intended to do justice to the very legitimate interests of the SMEs concerned. Although that may be operationally complex, banks, external reevaluators and the AFM are focusing with me on completing that dossier. Unfortunately, there has been a delay. I regret that because I believe that the vulnerable customers of these products should not suffer from this delay. My proposal to Mr Omtzigt and to the Chamber is that I should inform the Chamber shortly. In the boot camp of the past one and a half weeks I have explored one spade here, but not two spades deeply. But I am very motivated to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mr Omtzigt, Mr Azarkan also wanted to ask a question. I sent it back, so I'm still looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u283	I would like to say a few words about the trust offices and the gold stock and then I come to the relief. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has asked why the Supervisory Trust Office Act takes so long. The proposal for the revision of trust legislation has been under preparation for some time. A consultation on a draft proposal took place last year. Of course, there were important developments, not least this week, but I also mention the revelations surrounding the Panama Papers. The parliamentary interrogation committee has, of course, been working on this. As I understand it, it was also considered important to include the findings of that committee in the proposal. For the summer, the committee produced that report. My predecessor told the Chamber that some of the issues contained in the report are also directly included in the legislative proposal. That bill has been finalised and will be sent to the Council of State for advice in the very short term. I hope and expect the proposal to be submitted to your Chamber at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u284	Was this point ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u285	Yes. I come to Mr Van Dijck's question on gold supplies. He asked where the gold was stored. I have to admit that of all the questions that were asked yesterday, this was one of the questions that I was most curious about. And I can give you that answer, because that's what we've been looking for. The annual report of 2016 of DNB shows that they have at my disposal, and of course I would have liked to have had it differently, but that money lies with DNB, it is not with the Minister of Finance about a gold stock of 612 tonnes. The market value of this, which we will all realize, is fluctuating, but it was EUR 21.6 billion on 31 December 2016, I have just had a detailed check done. I already mentioned that the Minister of Finance is not about it, but it is also good to say that DNB is about location policy. That stock is spread across the Netherlands, the US, Canada and the United Kingdom. I hope I have answered this intriguing question. Not quite clear yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u286	I won't allow any interruptions. Or is the Minister ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u287	This was the last thing I wanted to say about banks, buffers, trust offices and the gold stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u288	Then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u289	So, if I understand correctly, De Nederlandsche Bank, and not the Minister of Finance, is about the placement policy. But the Netherlands Bank is ultimately the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, isn't it? Or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u290	I think yes and no. This is, of course, a broad discussion, which has been going on for some time now, and also with the ECB, about what the minister is talking about and what the bank is talking about. Mr Baudet, I think, is very familiar with that. Here it is that DNB itself conducts the location policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u291	And if we want to change that location policy, what are we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u292	Mr Baudet means: if Mr Baudet wants to change the location policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u293	We as a Chamber in a majority, in anticipation of an unmistakably favourable majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u294	That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u295	I would hope, but I'm not quite sure there are more locks on the door than a majority of half plus one to take the gold stock somewhere, but the honest answer is that I don't know. I can check with Mr Baudet. In the end, of course, all decisions are subject to the assent of Parliament. That's the way it should be in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u296	So that's what we get a letter about? How are we gonna figure that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u297	No, no, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u298	I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u299	Of course it's very important. Only, if the Chamber wants something, it's up to the Chamber to find out. It's not up to the cabinet to tell us how to do it. That's what we should do as a room. If you really want to know how to do this, we really need to find out in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u300	However, I have just heard the Minister of Finance say that he would like to find out. So he offered, and I'd like to take that offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u301	Yes, but it's also about the separation of powers. We control the government, and if we, as co-legislator, want to do something in that direction, it is really up to the Chamber itself. I think it is very nice that the Minister would like to help us...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u302	Then what do you suggest I do now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u303	If you have a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u304	I would like to know how we can influence the location policy of our gold stock. I want to get that gold back to the Netherlands eventually. That's all I care about. If the Minister of Finance says he does not know who is talking about it or how it is decided, I would like to take a next step in this matter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u305	No, Mr Baudet is making it much too easy now. I didn't say I don't know who's talking about it. I explicitly said that DNB itself is about the location policy. The debate then arose as to whether Mr Baudet, a majority of the Chamber or a qualified majority would decide on this matter. I have indicated that I would like to consider the quality of the answer, but the President would point out to me that it is a matter of state law that the Chamber should, if I may say so, do part of the homework itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u306	Okay. I'm on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u307	I think that Mr Baudet, who owns and controls De Nederlandsche Bank, could be surprised. Let's get back to the reserves, the leverage ratio. The Minister indicated that he would go for harmonisation at European level and for a common ratio. I am very curious, because this is basically about protecting consumers in the event of crises. What is the commitment of this cabinet? What ratio is this cabinet going to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u308	The coalition agreement is clear: we are in favour of this 4% leverage ratio. At the same time, we think it is sensible that the Netherlands should join the agreement that has been made about this in Europe. These are two things that we hope will be compatible with each other, but the discussion is still ongoing. My answer just in the direction of GroenLinks was also: let's let the ball do the work there. We're talking about that. I do not think there is any light between the commitment of the members of the Chamber and the cabinet, I suspect, but I would like to see the outcome of the negotiations in Basel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u309	We await the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u310	This is a little too easy for me. The previous cabinet deliberately decided to set the buffer requirements, the leverage ratio, at 4% for the Netherlands, while in Europe this is not yet the case. Now I see the Minister is in a relationship with Basel. I also understand the concerns of banks in dealing with the mortgage portfolios. We cannot discuss this debate entirely now. Can I suggest to the Minister that he write a letter about this, partly because the government agreement is actually very concise about the financial sector and to continue this debate at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u311	The continuation of this debate seems to me to be useful anyway, because the subject has our common interest. I would like to have the room to play with the timing, because it would not make much sense if I wrote a letter to the Chamber next week stating that the negotiations are still going on. It is important to say what the Dutch government intends to do and to negotiate a wide range of risk reduction measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u312	But then the cabinet's commitment is not entirely clear to the Chamber. I see that there is a relationship between Basel and Europe, but I think that does not necessarily have to be analytical. If an agreement is reached in Basel, that does not mean that the leverage ratio should fall in the Netherlands. Perhaps it would be interesting for the Chamber to know the government's view on this in a little more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u313	Let me add one more sentence, perhaps to reassure you. The Netherlands is committed at European level to storing the requirement for system banks. Many parties have referred to this as a starting point. So there's a lot of clarity about this negotiation commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u314	I just want to get back to my question about the gold supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u315	I was hoping you would.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u316	Because of course it's very simple to ask how much gold we have and where it is, but my question went much deeper. In Germany, Austria and in the Netherlands too, there is a tendency to recover the gold. Because it is not without danger that our gold lies in the United Kingdom or Canada with a forthcoming Brexit or with a Trump in the United States. The trend both in Germany and worldwide is: retrieve that gold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u317	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u318	The question to the Minister is: are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u319	If I have not immediately understood the unfathomable depth of the question, then I am going to try to correct it now. I just stayed at DNB, which is about the location policy itself. I told you there's a spread between the Netherlands, the US, the UK and Canada. DNB evaluates with a certain frequency, periodically, whether such distribution needs to be adjusted. That evaluation took place for the last time in 2014. At that time it was decided to return some of the gold stored in the United States to the Netherlands for a more balanced distribution. I think it is real that an institute like DNB is constantly looking at what is a balanced distribution. We all know that you have no certainty, but I think we also recognise that there are good arguments for a certain degree of dispersion. Apparently they took an important step towards Mr Van Dijck in 2014, because more has been brought back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u320	But in 2014 there was no Brexit and politics in America was very different. So in other words, the world doesn't stand still. There's just a tendency. I hope the Minister recognizes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u321	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u322	Also in Germany they recovered a lot of gold and that is not without reason. I would like the Minister to at least look at this and perhaps initiate a new evaluation to see if we need to get more gold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u323	I was just about to propose the following to Mr Van Dijck. I hope he's okay with it. Let me check with DNB when the next evaluation is planned and inform the Chamber. I should also like to mention that this is a matter of particular interest to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u324	It is so much of an interest that we had the opportunity to inspect it a number of years ago, both in New York and in the Netherlands. This committee has been extremely well informed about the location policy in recent years and has been very well informed about it. In recent years we have repatriated much more gold than the Germans could repatriate from New York. I have a question about SME derivatives. I am very pleased that the Minister will inform us about this. Can he also take with him in that letter why in his eyes all the banks are lagging behind and really put some pressure on that file? This has been going on for years. Each letter from the minister's predecessor was a letter of delay: it cannot, it cannot, it cannot. I am counting on us to receive, in the short term, a letter stating how long it will succeed and what is really going to happen, because the banks have not kept their promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u325	Sure, I'd be happy to. Again, it is really a complex and, in some ways, to file for those involved. I understand that some people look at the speed or lack of it with curved toes. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. If necessary, we should discuss with each other the question of how even more speed can be applied, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u326	Good. I would like to know from the Minister how much time he thinks he needs to finish the third issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u327	The third block is ready. I've arrived at block four.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u328	That is the subject on which we have had an arrangement of work this morning. A letter has been asked for. I don't know if that letter is there by now? Or how you think you're gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u329	Just for the sake of precision: I have taken note of two roll-call votes on my absolute debut here in the Chamber. There are questions in it which were then rejected by a majority. I said it would be wise for a letter to be sent. I understand the Chamber in such a way that it would be desirable to receive this letter in the relatively short term. I believe that Mr Nijboer would like that letter before the start of the second term. I haven't even seen that letter yet. I have, of course, been here in the Chamber, so I do not know what kind of coordination has taken place either. I suggest that I continue with a number of other topics and then let myself be informed about the state of play. I think the Members of Parliament know more about the letter right now, at least in terms of trial, than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u330	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u331	I don't know anything about it. So at least less is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u332	The Minister says he can continue. Does he mean by the last two subjects, 'international policy' and 'economic figures'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u333	There's a lot of interest in that letter from General Affairs. There's no misunderstanding about that. I'll see what else we can talk about. We've had a lot. I also assume that things which, for example, have to do with a balanced reduction of charges and purchasing power may still be dealt with there. I can try to add a little bit more. A lot of other questions have already been asked. May I suggest the following? Perhaps that will satisfy your desire to continue and take on something that can be done in its entirety. Will I do the block about Europe and everything that has to do with European budgetary rules now? I think that is separate from the other subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u334	How long will that take you? I think there is also a need for a short suspension of half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u335	Really? The pattern that I recognize now is that it is not my own text that is the obstacle in time, but the questions and answers, and it is undoubtedly because of the quality of my answers that it does not go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u336	How much time would you need without interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u337	I guess I'll be able to name all that beauty in 15 minutes. Maybe in less time than that. Would you like to try that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u338	I would like to try that, albeit I see a few Members of Parliament standing before me, who may have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u339	The Minister says: I probably know even less than some MPs. Let me leave it at that. The question remains, of course: when is this letter coming, so that we can talk about the main subject, the case belli, "dividend tax"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u340	I'm gonna ask for some clemency. I've been standing here, and I haven't had a chance to make a speech with anyone. There must be a letter from General Affairs; at least that is the wish of the Chamber. I understand that wish in itself, but I cannot answer that question now. Mr Van Rooijen will understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u341	I like to have a suspension and then maybe a little longer than half an hour. Indeed, I do not expect the Minister to be able to agree with a letter and inform the Chamber here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u342	I see you all standing, but I'd like to suggest we suspend for half an hour and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u343	Mr President, shall I do 'Europe'? I think that will be relatively quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u344	I still have a point. You're in charge of suspension, Mr. Chairman. I can understand why this is the Minister's first time. He stands there confidently, but he just needs to know what the constitutional position of the Chamber is. Each individual member of the Chamber shall be entitled to written information and to obtain it at the time he so requests. We voted on the question of when to start the debate. That is what the Chamber is about, but every individual Member of the Chamber, when he asks for a letter containing information on lobbyists, what the Prime Minister has said about, is entitled to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u345	What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u346	We just want that letter as soon as possible. We're not gonna start with that dividend tax until that letter gets here. The Minister interprets that a little more freely, but we have to be precise about this. This is a right I stand up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u347	Just for a second. The Minister just said he didn't have time to see what time that letter was due. That is also a real point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u348	Sure, I understand. But he also said: you voted and we're looking at it and this and that and that. No, we didn't vote on that. We're just entitled to that information, and we need to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u349	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u350	I do attach myself to this, because there is now really a misrepresentation of things. The procedure has been voted on twice. I've been a part of that and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u351	Don't talk through it, please, because then it's for no one to follow. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u352	I've been a part of that, and that's the rest of the room. It is quite clear that, when a Member of Parliament asks for information, the cabinet will respond to that as best as possible. The only comment I have made here is that it is humanly a bit complicated to be in conversation with the Chamber and in the meantime to accord a letter. In fact, I don't know where we stand in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u353	Exactly. And that is why I would like to propose the following. If you say: I can deal with the subject of Europe in about 15 minutes without interruptions, then I suggest that we do so and then suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u354	It can be shorter. Shall I try?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u355	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u356	In the beginning, I would have liked to ask a question, and you were right to have the Minister make his start first. I've been looking all the time for an opportunity to ask my question. I would like to ask if I can ask that question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u357	Depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u358	It is between trust offices and Europe, in fact between trust offices and the world. This minister says he's going to be strict: strict in the Chamber, strict in the Cabinet. But is he also going to be strict with ourselves? For starters, does he recognize that we're a tax haven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u359	Mrs Leijten, this has been the subject of discussion. I would ask the Minister to hold on to this point and come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u360	You're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u361	Otherwise we will move from one subject to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u362	Mr President, the trust offices are part of the tax haven and in Europe we have been criticised for being a tax haven. I couldn't find a better time. And if the Minister wants to think about it before he says "yes, we're a tax haven," I'm okay with that, but I'll ask the question again later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u363	It's an important subject that's going to be discussed. I think that the Secretary of State will say a few things about this, because he is also the one who has previously communicated with the Chamber about the so-called Paradise Papers. So, as a cabinet, we are definitely discussing this with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u364	This Minister has responded in the German news. Then he can respond in this room, too. Are we a tax haven, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u365	No, I didn't respond to the German news at all. I have not spoken to any German or international journalist. I have indicated to Dutch journalists that the previous cabinet has already done a number of things in the area of tax law: ATAD 1, ATAD 2, sharing rulings and agreements. The current cabinet is taking a number of steps in this direction. Perhaps the Secretary of State should also have the opportunity to put that into words. I think that we, as the Netherlands, have taken a really good path and oppose the qualification of Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u366	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u367	What qualification? Tax haven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u368	Mrs. Leijten hits the nail on the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u369	That's not my qualification! That is the qualification of the whole world when it comes to the Netherlands. There was a big article in the Guardian yesterday. There are six European tax ports, tax havens, and 350 billion profits from companies are channelled through them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u370	This isn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u371	There are all great terms for that: the double Dutch-Irish sandwich. As a company, you can get rid of most of your profits. Isn't that a qualification for "tax paradise"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u372	I will gladly tell you about the warm welcome I received in Brussels. I think that in Brussels and in the Eurogroup there is, quite frankly, very broad appreciation for the Netherlands on a number of issues: how we have the budget in order and how we participate in some of those discussions, which are, by the way, much more complicated in the Netherlands than in other places. I think that there is also a very clear recognition that the Netherlands, which I must admit to the previous cabinet, has taken a new path. I mentioned ATAD 1 and 2, I mentioned the ruling policy, and it will not have escaped Mrs Leijten's notice that this cabinet is taking a number of further steps, as they stand in the coalition agreement. Moreover, I think that after that I would really like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to say that what the Secretary of State has said about this in recent days is sensible and goes exactly in the direction I am describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u373	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-09-tweedekamer-8.u374	I am not going to propose it now, but I am going to decide to suspend it until 2.25 p.m.
