ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Road Traffic Act to the final introduction of accompanied driving, Section No. 34693. I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. There are four speakers and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I am the first speaker in this debate, but the last member of the D66 Group allowed to make his maiden speech during this period. It is still a little early in the morning, which is why my colleagues are all walking into the room now. I'll deal with the Road Traffic Act in a moment, but I'd like to start with a short personal note. Already at a young age I became interested in politics, not in my current hometown Nijmegen, but in Uden, the beautiful Brabant village of my youth. It all started with some teachers in my high school, who always talked passionately about world peace, emancipation and solidarity, and got me thinking about my ideal society. But besides those teachers, my view of the world during that period was largely determined by the attacks of 9/11 and the murders of Pim Fortuyn and Theo van Gogh. Our safe progressive West with our ideal democracy was suddenly attacked by terrorists, but that West also put itself on trial. How do we prevent everyone from being treated in the same way and turn in all our freedoms for false security? In particular, the aftermath of the murder of Van Gogh has impressed me deeply. I remember how I was stuck to the tube to record all the latest news in me. Later that week I stood in the evening in disbelief watching a primary school with mostly Turkish-Dutch children go up in flames in my own village, in what seemed to be a retaliatory action for Theo's murder. Like many others, I did not want to accept that this assassination would lead to a spiral of hatred and violence. Together with some fellow students from my graduation class I therefore organized sports and games for the children of that burnt down school, we walked in a quiet trip through the village and I was allowed to give a speech in the city council about how we as young people in our village wanted to live together: with respect for each other, regardless of origin, faith or color. That's how I discovered at a young age that with a small contribution you can have a big impact. That was the reason for me to become politically active and become a member of the Young Democrats and D66, a party that relies on people's own strength and always looks at the world with an open eye. After seven years of group chairmanship in Nijmegen, I find it an enormous honour to be standing here now. As a Member of Parliament, I will use my full energy to contribute to a sharp but always respectful debate. (NL) Mr President, that brings me to the proposed amendment of the law, which will bring us to the final introduction of accompanied driving. Driving a car from the age of 17 instead of 18 seems like a small step, but can make a big contribution to road safety. D66 is therefore in favour. In recent years a test has been carried out on accompanying driving and the evaluation shows that the accident risk is 26% lower than for young drivers who had not participated in the experiment. Less accidents, that's what we're doing. I do have some practical questions. Why, in spite of the suggestion made by the prosecution and the police, did not the choice to apply a fixed initial period regardless of the category of driving licence behavior behavior? Can the Minister clarify its decision? How does the Minister assess the conflicting signals from the police and the OM that the adjustment of the initial period may encounter enforcement problems? How does the Minister intend to deal with these problems in practice? Mr President, D66 considers improving road safety to be very important. My colleague Salima Belhaj for a long time insisted on the need to better record the cause of traffic accidents. If you know the cause, you can also prevent accidents. That also proves this amendment to the Road Traffic Act. For a long time, young people used the rankings as the cause of road accidents. By naming and recognizing that, we have been able to tackle the cause. Let us look open to new road safety challenges. There are two developments that I am particularly concerned about: distraction from the smartphone, especially from behind the wheel, and the increasing number of accidents, often also one-sided accidents, caused by older people. What is the Minister's view of these trends? And what contribution can the Empire make to the mobility industry's initiatives to discourage appende behind the wheel? What lessons can we draw from the approach for young drivers for road safety in the elderly driver? I hope that the Minister will see opportunities to come up with smart solutions on these two issues too, so that we can stand here again in a few years' time and conclude with each other that we have achieved a significant reduction in this type of accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I congratulate you most warmly on your maiden speech. It is very nice that the parliamentary work has actually begun for you too. I shall suspend the sitting briefly so that all those present are able to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	I give the floor to Mrs Visser on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin with the content, I would like to officially welcome Mr Jetten after his maiden speech, which had a nice personal note, but which I think also reflected where his heart lies, in mobility. I think he is a good representative on behalf of the D66 Group in order to bring his liberal approach to this Chamber in the coming years. I'm going to the subject myself. I think every kid just before he or she's 18 thinks, "Wow, I want to get that driver's license." A driver's license gives you a sense of freedom, you can go anywhere and it's a first independent, mature step you can take. So basically, the sooner, the better. If you can get the driver's license sooner, that's a hell of a thing. But the experience also teaches me that everyone in this room knows that you only really learn how to drive once you've been behind the wheel and just learn what it's like when other people make unexpected movements. That is why 2toDrive has also been introduced, to ensure that young people are more able to gain experience behind the wheel and get their driver's license. That is also why the VVD also agreed a number of years ago when this experiment was proposed. Now the Minister proposes that this experiment should actually be transformed into legislation and regulation. As far as we are concerned, this can count on our support, even though the results are not entirely uniform. The Scientific Institute for Road Safety, SWOV, says: on the one hand, it is positive when it comes to the number of kilometres, when it comes to the number of accidents, but on the other hand, there are not really very hard data to be able to make a unanimous statement about this now. My question to the Minister is therefore: is she prepared to gather sufficient information on this in the coming period so that in five years' time, if we go back to evaluating this law, we can involve it? There are some good improvements to the bill. First of all, the supervisors must meet stricter standards. That can count on the support of the VVD, which we have also asked for when it comes to a counselor who is under the influence of alcohol and drugs next to a young driver. You don't want this being abused in the context of avoiding the Bob campaign, Mr. President. That's good. It's just that there's some confusion. In an earlier consultation with the Minister, we asked what exactly is the criminalisation if you, as a counselor, do sit next to a young driver under the influence of alcohol and drugs. What consequences does that have? What we do not find is that you cannot lose your accompanying card. That's actually really weird. You have an example, a young driver is allowed to drive under your responsibility, but in no way, even though you've behaved badly, even though you've committed serious traffic offences, you can lose that escort pass. Can the Minister reflect on why it has not been chosen and whether she is prepared to look into it? Because we believe that this role as a model is extremely important, so that we would like to argue in favour of it. Then Mr Van Aalst has tabled an amendment on behalf of the PVV Group in order to ensure that the starting period is actually equal for everyone. I can follow his reasoning, but I have another question first. Why does the Minister choose to take the rookie period only for young drivers to five years now? In her bill she herself states that it is to grow more spirit for 2toDrive. Well, when we read the bill and see all the figures, we actually only see that the mood is increasing, that more and more young drivers want it. So that can't be the reason. Then the question is whether road safety has been investigated. What are the consequences? Because we haven't ever chosen a seven-year beginner's term for nothing. So for the first seven years you have to be careful what you do, otherwise you can lose your driver's license, whether it's for your moped or for your car. Did you get a look at that? Because it was always about involving the age, but also the inexperience behind the wheel. In addition, Mr Jetten asked just now that the prosecutor and the police were very critical about this. They say it leads to problems in ICT, it leads to enforcement problems. We simply do not read back to what specific problems this leads to. Can the Minister confirm that this has been discussed? Can she further confirm that there are no more enforcement problems and that this bill, if adopted in this way, will lead to proper implementation? In that context, I would like to dwell on the beginner's driving licence. We received an evaluation on this last year. If you look at the total target group of young drivers who are driving under a beginner's driving licence, you can lose your driver's license within a certain number of years if you are seriously misbehaved, you can see that it covers about a million young drivers. And only three driving licenses have been revoked. One million drivers who could be covered, three drivers who have actually lost their driving licence. Then the question is whether the beginner's driving licence actually works and works. One of the reasons was that the chain, as it is so beautifully called, so the Central Bureau Driving Certificates, but also the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, say: yes, our chain is not connected, our ICT system is not working. Then the question is why this bill is chosen, despite the fact that prosecutors and police say they are concerned about ICT, for changing the starting period. I would like to ask the Minister if she can reflect on that and on the success of the beginner's driving licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to my colleague Jetten for his maiden speech. I would also like to make a point. We regularly see requests for debates about a cow fart. That's what the stands are full of. We notice that we are talking today about road safety and that the Netherlands on the left is absent. I'd like to make that point anyway. Mr. Chairman. Road safety in our country is under pressure and the number of road deaths and serious injuries has risen again in recent years. The PVV considers this a worrying development. It is not for nothing that many organisations have put their heads together and earlier this year the manifesto "Transport safety: a national priority!" have offered to the Chamber. I am not going to discuss the content of this manifesto further on this bill, but I would like to pick out the thread. This is because these organisations argue that road safety needs to be improved on the basis of knowledge and facts. It is precisely this knowledge and facts that are lacking in the evaluation of the experiment that is accompanied by driving. The experiment accompanying driving was introduced at the time to bring down the accident involvement of young, novice drivers. However, on the basis of the evaluation, it cannot be concluded whether this experiment has been successful or not. Indeed, the questionnaire is not significant. The questionnaire study even shows that relatively more people who participated in supervised driving have been involved in an accident. However, these figures do not say anything, because most of the people have not participated at all in this non-binding survey. When the experiment was introduced, it should simply have been registered with every young person under 24 years of age who was involved in an accident whether they had participated in the experiment accompanied driving or not. Why didn't this happen? In any case, there is every reason to improve accident registration. This is already apparent from the first pages of the explanatory memorandum to this bill. Beginning drivers have a more than four times higher chance of getting involved in an accident. The explanation is that this is due to poor impulse control, self-overestimate, group behaviour and poor driving experience. However, when we asked for this in the written submission, it appeared that there was no further information on this matter. This has thus already been observed in 2010, but no further measures have been taken unless accompanied by the test. Mr. Chairman. The PVV considers that this is totally inadequate and unacceptable and therefore calls for a further increase in the registration of accidents, including the registration of a number of cases concerning the cause of the accident, so that, if possible, we can take real targeted measures. It is therefore necessary to consider not only whether those affected by alcohol, but also a number of characteristics, such as previous offences, criminal record, years of driving experience, the country of issue of the driving licence and nationality. Is the Minister prepared to do this? As long as there is no such necessary knowledge and facts, the road safety debate will continue to be filled with symbolic policy characterised by increasing bans, restrictions and exceptions to all kinds of rules, in such a way that it is no longer possible for the road user to follow. This bill, too, has a striking example of this with the mess of beginner times. The standard beginner's term is five years, but if you're under 18, it's seven years for your AM driver's license, over 18 it's five years, but if you're over 18 with an AM driver's license and you get your B driver's license then it's seven years again. In short, there's no strings attached, not even for the D.A. and the police. They therefore argue in favour of a fixed start-up period. That is why I have tabled an amendment to apply the most frequently used five-year period for all types of driving licences and ages. After five years, you can't really talk about a novice driver, it seems to us. However, if other groups would prefer to have a standard term of seven years, that is also negotiable as far as we are concerned. We are talking about putting an end to this mess of rookie times, which means that it is impossible for the public prosecutor, the police and certainly the driver himself to follow. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr President, concluding. Because of the lack of data and proper evaluation, we are not really able to give a ruling on this bill. My farmer's understanding tells me that it wouldn't hurt to have 17-year-olds ride under supervision. However, the high accident involvement among young drivers is of great concern to the PVV. I hope that the Minister and the Chamber will be able to support our measures to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I warmly congratulate Mr Jetten on behalf of the CDA Group and certainly on my own behalf. I think he's really a big asset to the House of Representatives. This is not only because he was born in Veghel and he grew up in Uden, although it is fantastic that the Chamber is filled with members from such beautiful places. But he is certainly also an asset because he shows in his maiden speech that he takes care of his place of residence and all the people who live there, even if something goes wrong there. We appreciate that very much. And we see that Mr Jetten considers it important that people in their homes can be themselves, regardless of religion or origin. He also indicates that a religion can play an important role in this. I like that. That is very good and we very much appreciate it. Mr. Jetten, welcome to the House of Representatives. I like to welcome you, as far as it's up to me to do this. Now about the law. In general, the CDA can agree to this. We can start by saying that we are particularly seeing positive effects of this. There are, however, a number of aspects to which we would particularly like to draw the Minister's attention. In the opinions of the SWOV (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) I read that it will still be necessary to limit exposure to the most dangerous traffic situations during the first period of self-driving. According to SWOV, this can be done, for example, by applying protective measures, such as a total ban on the use of alcohol and drugs, the non-transporting of passengers and a ban on driving at nights at weekends, because precisely than in that group many accidents happen. As the driving experience increases, these measures can be lifted each and every one of them. In this way it becomes a driving licence which gives the driver access to more complex and dangerous traffic situations. Earlier, we asked the Minister how she felt about this, but we had the impression that the Minister was skilfully slamming around these questions in the note on the basis of the report. For example, according to the Minister, the question is whether the imposition of additional restrictive rules on this particular group reduces the risks, although this may have a negative incentive to participate in the accompanying driving. It is stated that we should not make it too difficult for young people, otherwise no one will gain experience in accompanying driving. That's gonna push it a little hard. The Minister says that it is important for young people to gain experience with accompanying driving in normal circumstances. The question is what normal circumstances are. According to the CDA, for example, in the case of alcohol consumption while you have just succeeded, there is certainly no normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	I ask a question to my colleague from the CDA. Nor is the PVV in favour of constantly imposing restrictions, but does my colleague agree with me that it should be better organised in the case of accident registration? Would it not be better if much more facts and knowledge were recorded in the accident registration process in order to be able to take very effective measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	Absolutely. Definitely. Of course, before the elections, we really argued in favour of that. D66 too, Mrs Belhaj has put forward motions for this on a regular basis, and I would be failing her if I did not say that she did this and we supported it. In that sense, I fully agree with the PVV. We are all in favour of this. Knowledge is one thing. You can do something about it with that. Knowlegde is a Victory: the Romans used to collect all knowledge and that is why the Roman Empire has lasted for so long. So, I totally agree. Apart from that, I was just about to finish this piece and then I would like to continue with my speech. I would like to ask the Minister why SWOV's suggestions, such as that of imposing a total ban on alcohol, are not desirable. Perhaps the Minister could answer that question in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, with that last sentence, in response to the interruption, I continued my speech. The tests carried out in the Netherlands have not yet been completed. The 2toDrive test will not be completed until 1 November. Why does the Minister not wait for the results and recommendations? What's the rush? That question is, of course, a little double, because when it comes to road safety, we are always in a hurry and then it has to be done as quickly as possible. But we know that this test will be completed on 1 November. Wouldn't it be helpful to bring them back, or have the Minister already been informed of preliminary results that she says we already know, and that is what we are taking into account? Finally, I have a question about the impact of these measures. In order to get a good idea of the road safety effects, we should also look at the actual accidents and infringements that have been registered, and I also answer Mr Van Aalst's question from the PVV. In the case of infringements, this is not possible because fines are mainly issued on registration and cannot therefore be allocated to persons. In the case of accidents, such an image can in principle be given, but we hear that there is a problem, including privacy considerations and that sort of thing. Is that true or is the shoe wringing elsewhere? Both the normal circumstances of the beginner and the privacy considerations are of course very important, but ultimately we want to have as few accidents as possible. There is a need to make a difference from time to time. Is the Minister prepared to get that information and to share the final report with the Chamber on this matter? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	I give the floor to the Minister for her first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Jetten on his maiden speech. Despite the fact that his maiden speech was here, we have already had the opportunity to hold a number of debates in general. I think he's a welcome addition to this House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Today's agenda is the adaptation of the Road Traffic Act to the 2toDrive experiment. It is very important that we talk about this at the moment, because it started as an experiment and I want to shape it legally now because I think it is a very good initiative that can improve road safety. The Members of Parliament who have contributed also indicate that they are in favour of it, but still have a number of specific questions. I will start the other way around, with one of Mr Van Helvert's last questions: why not wait until you have completed the evaluations? That would then be November, when the latest investigations are carried out. The reason is that the experiment 2toDrive started on 1 November 2011 and lasts six years. This is also the maximum duration that can be set for an experiment under the Road Traffic Act. If you want to give young people the opportunity to get their driving licences sooner but you wouldn't make this legal adjustment, there would be a gap that would prevent 17-year-olds from participating for a certain period of time. That is why we have said that we want to amend the law now, so that this gap does not arise and we can finally give young people the opportunity to obtain their driving licences sooner. Why do we believe we can do this already? We have seen a lot of positive effects on young people participating in this experiment. I shall come back to the statistical representativeness of the investigations. One of the issues that most of the questions have been asked about is why the beginner duration of 2toDrive is adjusted to five years and why we do not immediately adjust all the deadlines, which is the thrust of the PVV's amendment. There are two reasons. One is that we choose to adjust 2toDrive to five years because we see that some participants on 2toDrive who are about 17,5 years old, wait until they are 18 years old. They do so because they can participate in the five-year period if they wait six months. If they obtain their driving licence just before that, they are covered by the seven-year period. It can be a good thing for them to wait. We think this is bad again, because we want as many young people as possible to start driving accompanied and thus participate in the experiment. They may decide when to apply for a driving licence after they have passed their examination. We see that 12% of the 2toDrive participants wait for the licence to be applied for until they are 18 years old. That's quite a high percentage. I think they do so because they then fall under the five-year period rather than under the seven-year period. When a 2toDriver obtains and applies for a driving licence for his 18th birthday, it is covered by the current regulations by the seven-year period. After his 18th, he falls under the five-year period in one go. I don't want to harm them anymore. For me, that is the reason for changing the deadline to five years. Then the question is: 'I understand why we do not do so for all groups, so that it is clear, including in enforcement.' For reasons of road safety, I am not in favour of doing the same for moped and moped drivers. That is, in fact, the only group that does not. The reason is that they start getting their mustache driver's license earlier, often at 16 years old. That would mean that, if you were to apply the five-year term to them, that group of young people would no longer be covered by the beginner scheme at the age of 21. It is very important for that target group to watch for extra long due to bravure, unsafe driving and not always having the right judgment. So both the age and also the vehicle on a moped or a moustache bike you are also much more vulnerable for me because I would like to keep that group under 17 years. I also find experience with an AM driving licence really different from experience with a B driving licence. That is why I do not recommend the content of the PVV's amendment, although I understand why they proposed this systemically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	I do have a response to the Minister and some questions. The question that also came up is: what about enforcement? I think this would also solve a problem for enforcement. I also hear the Minister say that she thinks that people do not apply for their driving licences, but wait until they are 18 and do not do so at 17. Can she explain that to me or at least show me what that proves to be? In my view, we have just found that the research on the basis of the accompanying driving leaves a lot to be desired. With regard to the discussion of discouraging people with those five years or seven years and making the difference, I think we have just found that the accompanying driving is a success. I am still not convinced why we should not simply go to one term to make it easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	Well, chairman, regular drivers' licenses from the age of 18 apply for five years. You can't get it for one in seven years; at most you can get it all to a term of five years. That's one. Two is, why do you think they're waiting for that? This is because a SWOV study shows that 12% of the 2toDrive participants wait for driving licences to become 18 years old. This means that they wait six months to a few months, because they know that they will then fall into another beginner's scheme. We do not want that, we really want them to be accompanied. That is why we believe that we should make that right. Of course, they are often somewhat older than the moped rider. That's why I think that's possible. That's one of the reasons. Another reason may be that they do not want the effort or the cost of the accompanying passes, because that is, of course, also mandatory. They may have passed just before their 18th year due to a late start or a disappointing training course. There may be different variants. In any case, I do not want to put the 17-year-olds at a disadvantage compared to the 18-year-olds when it comes to the beginner's term, because I think that this will lead to more people participating in 2toDrive-guided driving. Enforcement, says Mr Van Aalst, what about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	Is there another interruption by Mr Jetten on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, Mr President, keep going at that point, because the Minister says a few times: 'I think'. It seems interesting to me to investigate some of these things better, because what if 17-year-olds start with 2toDrive because it's just fun to start with driving lessons at 17, but people don't really have a supervisor at all and that's why they wait until their 18th year. The whole philosophy behind 2toDrive is thus lost, because it is precisely driving with a companion that leads to someone having more experience and being able to get on the road without guidance from the age of 18. Does the Minister see any possibility of examining this further if we introduce it definitively now, so that we can keep our finger on the pulse over the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	We will certainly keep our finger on the wrist as well. Look, if you don't have a supervisor, you can't experience the benefits of the guided driving either. I can imagine that then you will actually have to wait until the 18th, because in principle most young people do not have to participate in accompanied driving. You can just wait till you're 18 and then go get your driver's license. On the contrary, many young people would like to start early. We think it is an important development from a road safety point of view, because we all know that if you have got your driving licence and you have had all those lessons and you are then alone in the car the first time, which is still very exciting and that at least the first year most accidents are made. By boys often because they have a lot of bravado when they start driving, by girls because they are a bit more nervous. Unfortunately, the experiences we have here are still not gender-neutral. But accompanied driving simply helps to assess traffic together with someone else, to lose the nervousness and you name it. So we think this is a very important programme for young people. We want to do everything we can to make sure they get in there early. We can't help it if someone doesn't have a handler; we're not gonna take care of it for them. But they think "hey, if I wait a few months, then I can end up in a different regime at once and then I only have five years to participate in the rookie period," and that's why they don't participate, then that would be annoying. SWOV investigated this. She says that it is not clear why applications are being waited. There are several reasons for this. I mentioned them all. I am certainly prepared to monitor this further in the future. The PVV asked for enforcement. Mrs Visser and Mr Jetten also asked about this. At first, prosecutors and police asked themselves whether all this was manageable and said that they should be able to see where they were going quickly. Some of the comments made by the D.A. and the police have led to adjustments. After the D.A.'s and the police's advice, we had another meeting. In that consultation, the reaction of both the D.A. and the police was discussed. They indicated that, according to their estimates, this proposal would not lead to enforcement problems, even specifically with regard to the initial period. So they indicated that themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	That last answer is, of course, nice: it does not immediately lead to enforcement problems. But they clearly state that it will help if one time limit is used. Then why does the Minister choose not to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	There will then be a time limit for those who have a driving licence and an exemption position for mopeds and mopeds. If you have to maintain, the difference between a car and a moped and a moped seems pretty easy to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions have been asked. I'm gonna see if I can discuss them a little in conjunction. Let me first go to the statistical justification of the research. That's what the PVV asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	On this point, I would like to begin with an interruption by Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I'm gonna go back to the beginning anyway. A number of years ago we introduced a start-up period, precisely because of the risks faced by young drivers. The Minister himself states that SWOV research makes a number of statements, but SWOV research also says that no uniform conclusions can be drawn on road safety, while road safety was one of the reasons for introducing the initial period. Can the Minister respond to this and establish a relationship with the adjustment of the initial period? In the context of the written consultation, we have asked questions about the prosecution and the police. In those documents it was stated that there were all kinds of consultations. It is also said that the costs are not yet clear. Can the Minister give us a little more insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	In fact, Mrs Visser asks me whether it is clear that it will actually lead to more road safety. This also depends on the statistical significance of the PVV. I'm gonna keep answering that question, 'cause I'm gonna come to that. SWOV has sent a questionnaire to nearly 100,000 young people aged between 18,5 and 20 years who have their driving licence for at least six months. There's a 30% response; I really think that's a very high response for such a study. This high response shows that the accident risk is 26% lower. It is said that this is not statistically significant because this effect occurs within the group of young people who have completed the questionnaire. It is, of course, not certain that this effect also occurs within the group of young people who have not completed the questionnaire. You can't force everyone to join us. So this is the best that can be achieved at the time. That is also what I indicated in the letter to the Chamber and the press release. I wrote it down myself. Unfortunately, there is no scientific method that can work better than that questionnaire. It has already been said that the actual accident data cannot be linked to the data of 2toDrive for privacy reasons. So you can do accident registration and see on that basis which groups cause accidents, but you can't link that to the names and persons from a specific program. We see 26% less accident risk in the group that filled this out. That's what we see in all foreign investigations. The Germans have been doing this for some time, also with a very positive effect. At the same time, however, we always keep saying that this is not statistically detectable and that it is difficult and actually impossible to come up with a better option for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	Are you at the end of the answer on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mrs Visser asked whether this is demonstrably better for road safety, on the basis of the information we can get and on the basis of experience abroad. She also asked about the D.A. and the police. There's no discussion about costs. The police take the improvement of enforcement as a small adjustment in its ICT system within the regular ICT updates, so that too is out of the blue now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then I come to Mr Van Aalst for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	Let me come back to the issue of accident registration. We had asked if we could add additional features. As far as we are concerned, road safety is so important. We don't ask for names. In fact, accompanied driving has just been introduced to reduce the number of road victims in that category. It would be very important for us to establish whether young people are suffering from behavioral problems or with a criminal record, or people of a certain nationality. That doesn't have anything to do with privacy, does it? That is something we must have in mind in order to be able to take the right measures so that the good do not suffer from the evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's the answer that was coming. Mr Van Aalst said that it is also a broader wish in the Chamber of Commerce that improving traffic registration is necessary. I totally agree with him. That is a discussion that we have been having for years and in which we are getting a little better each time but where there is still a lot of profit to be gained as far as I am concerned. I have already promised to send a letter to the Chamber about the improvements that have been made to further refine that registration. You'll be expecting that letter soon. On this basis, depending on how long we are left, I or my successor will discuss with you what registration can mean for road safety measures. Why is it sometimes complex in the context of privacy, but also in the context of accident registration? You should imagine when an accident occurs that people are primarily focused on helping the victims and that they are not going to check their phones at that time to see if they were grabbing. If they are still alive, you can see if alcohol has been used, but if they have died, the body is hardly ever examined to see if alcohol has been used. There's barriers in there where we're gonna see what you can and can't do. For example, the privacy regulations show us how many people have been arrested on the basis of drinking and drug use or what unsafe physical situations have caused accidents, but they are not linked to the names of the people who were involved, what is their background and whether they had a criminal record, etc. But we will, as I promised earlier, send everything we can and what we want to do and improve to your Chamber, I think in a few weeks' time. Then we can continue to debate whether that is far enough, or whether there are more possibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Minister continues her speech. I suggest we get her to wrap that up. We are always in a position to answer the following question with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	Of course, that's because everyone is curious about how it's all gonna end. I'll try to do it a little faster. Mrs Visser wonders whether sufficient data will be collected to be able to evaluate in five years' time. We just need to keep monitoring and evaluating. That is what is happening, only with the restriction of privacy regulations. If we send that letter to you, let us also show exactly what further information we collect. Mrs Visser is concerned about the beginner's driving licence. We've had that discussion before. She rightly wonders how it is now possible that only three beginners' driving licences have finally been withdrawn. My colleague from V and J and myself have indicated to the Chamber in a letter that the beginner's driving licence does not always work well and that this is due to problems in implementation but also to the design of the scheme. That is why an improvement plan is now being drawn up. As far as implementation is concerned, the WODC evaluates the beginner scheme and, when the possibilities for improvement exist, will indicate to the Chamber what we are going to do to further improve it. Mrs Visser also asked about the introduction of the accompanying card in the event of a violation by the supervisor. I think you should distinguish between handing in the escort card and being able to punish the escort. If you're looking for a counselor, it must be someone of unspoken behavior and must be over 27 years old, have a driver's license for so many years and have never been arrested for excessive drinking or drug use in the car or other types of offences. Now it's really about what happens if that person does something like that afterwards. If, for example, he has to blow and then gets caught because he has too much to drink, this is not covered by those very serious offences, but if, for example, he is caught for such serious offences that his driving licence is recovered, it will have an effect on the accompanying driving. Why is that? Because of course it sounds very strange: if someone first has to be of unspoken behavior and he is not after that, why not take his name off the guide card? That actually has to do with punishing the younger and not the one who committed the offence. A young person can always put one to five different guides on a pass. If that young man is smart, he'll put several escorts on that pass, so that when the counselor he has commits an offense, he won't use it anymore. If you declared the accompanying card invalid, it means that the young person can only drive under supervision again after he has applied for a new pass, paid and received. In the intervening period, he may not drive. That's disproportionate to the younger one, when you actually want the younger one to be able to go on and not use that counselor anymore. How can you arrest or stop that handler if he's on the watch? For example, if he no longer has a driver's license and he is held by the police while he does supervise the young person, he is punishable. He can't drive accompanied if he doesn't have a driver's license anymore. So that's settled. Mr Jetten asks how we are going to go about getting behind the wheel. I recently looked with a lot of social parties to see if we could sign a covenant in which the parties will also be committed to taking action. That's what we do with industry. We are also looking to see if we can arrange a ban for cyclists, for example. Last Thursday I was at the IAA in Frankfurt, where all kinds of new car techniques were presented. If you see what you can do on the screens next to you you can write and you can see anything and everything.I'm actually really worried about what you can do in a car like this and what you can be distracted by. At the same time, you can see new inventions there, allowing you to follow the driver's attention and also give signals when that driver is no longer focused and focused. I'm thinking of the steering wheel that gives a signal, sounds up to and including shutting down the car, or even moving all the way along navigation systems with someone's eyemovement. You can see on the one hand that new technical solutions are coming. On the other hand, as far as the cyclists are concerned, I am trying to ban the tapping behind the wheel and I am also looking at what we can do with the cars, in the meantime we can see what we can do with the ban. Mr Jetten also asked about road safety in the elderly. I am constantly working on the elderly, because of course they have a lot of road safety problems. They are mainly dealing with problems on the bicycle and with one-sided accidents, so we are very much in the process of doing so, but they also have road safety problems as a participant in traffic. Taking over certain driving tasks by cars, such as braking on time, can of course offer solutions, and parking is becoming increasingly easy. The new strategic plan to be presented in 2018 will address the way in which the other road managers and I will give an extra boost to this over the next ten years. Finally, Mr Van Helvert asked why we do not introduce a stepped-up driving licence, as happens in other countries. This is because we in the Netherlands have opted for a beginner scheme and for stricter alcohol limits for young people. I think that was once a request from Mrs Visser to apply those stricter limits on alcohol. I see no reason to switch to a completely different system. This debate will also take place at European level this year in the evaluation of the Third Driving Licence Directive. Then we will see what the Member States are bringing in and whether we are going to change that. Mr. Chairman. That was my response to the questions that have been asked today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u37	I waited until the Minister's reply was completed. I have two more questions to answer in response to her. The Minister himself states that the WODC was asked to examine how the beginner's driving licence could actually be improved precisely as a result of the findings on the beginner's driving licence. The question is how this relates to the 2toDrive experiment that is now just being introduced legally. That's what that's all about. You can only get your driver's license sooner, but then you'll just have the rookie driver's license. How does that relate to each other? Can the Minister answer that? And then there's the handler's pass. I also asked when the escort is actually criminal. We have asked several questions about this in writing, but we have not received a clear answer. The Minister himself now states that it does not apply in the case of alcohol again. I assume that someone with 1.3 promille simply withdraws the driver's license and that that person should no longer be a supervisor. Can the Minister give a more detailed answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u38	If a person withdraws his driving licence for excessive drinking, that person must not be an escort and is also punishable if he or she does so. I mentioned the example of the small offence which sometimes occurs and where the driving licence is not withdrawn, but which is, of course, annoying, because you simply cannot expect an escort to behave improperly. This does not result in the withdrawal of the beginner's pass, because we consider it unreasonable for the young person to do so. But if it is really about excessive behavior, then the driving licence is withdrawn and that person should not be a guide either. Then that person is punishable if he or she does. The other question was about the connection between the beginner's driving licence and the 2toDrive experiment. The rookie driver's license has to do with the behavior that someone exhibits. You actually want young people to get an extra boost to show good behavior. That is why in such a beginner's driving licence there is a kind of penalty-size system, whereby points are deducted and beginners can eventually lose their driving licence. That's the punishment. The 2toDrive experiment is actually the positive side. Can we not encourage young people to start earlier under guidance, so that they also get positive impulses from accompanying driving and the knowledge of someone who has experience? Those two things don't bite each other. It concerns the use of the five-year system for the 2toDrive driving licence. We see that the 2toDrive participants are all over 17 years of age and often over 17 years of age. Then they are very close to the 18-year-old, who then also has the beginner period of five years. For both groups, therefore, they gain five years of experience. They're subject to the same rules. The moment they make the mistake, they get the same credit deduction. One only starts with it a little earlier, under guidance, while the other does it alone. So that's the connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'm gonna pulse if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the first-term questions. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their congratulations. We've worked very well together in this Chamber in the first few months. In the first period, there was broad support for better recording of accidents and causes of accidents. The Chamber adopted the Belhaj motion last year. I would like to stress once again that it is really important that we implement this motion properly. Indeed, many of the parties in the industry still indicate that we are still not sufficiently registered and therefore are not able to make good new policy choices. I would like to make two brief points: deadlines and enforcement. With regard to the deadlines, I support the Minister's response. In the first instance, it seemed logical to me to align these deadlines as much as possible. That is also what Mr Van Aalst of the PVV said. But I agree with the Minister that there is indeed a difference between the young motorist and the young scooter or moped rider. The latter starts at a much younger age as a participant in the road traffic, but I think that is the most important point.. also has a less intensive course than we see at 2toDrive. That is why I think it would be wise for motorists to align these deadlines, as the Minister is proposing, but to continue to make an exception for mopeds and mopeds. I shall now turn to the PVV's amendment to item No. 11 therefore do not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u41	I have a question for my colleague. The Minister made it very clear that it was all very easy to recognise in enforcement. If it's so easy to recognize in enforcement, why do you think the police and the D.A. have indicated that it's a tricky point? On the contrary, they recommend that one starting period be used. Shouldn't that appeal to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u42	I fully agree with you that the written reply did not make it quite clear whether the prosecution and the police are ready for this and whether they see any problems. I have just heard the Minister reply that the D.A. and the police have indicated that they can handle enforcement and that a number of ICT challenges have also been resolved. On this point, I am confident that the different starting dates should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u43	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. If it's so easy and you can easily recognize it, why was it a problem for the police and the D.A.?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u44	That question should not be put to me by Mr Van Aalst. I do not know either, but I am glad that the Minister has given us more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u45	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u46	Finally, I come to the little debate between the Minister and Mrs Visser on whether or not to take away the accompanying card. In my view, it is not so much a question of taking away the accompanying card, but rather of preventing a companion who has committed an offence from still acting as a guide to the young driver. The minister said, "I don't want to punish young people by taking the escort card." That's wonderful, but I think we'll punish those kids too if we put them in the car with a wrong handler. I want it even sharper. How are we going to ensure that escorts with a pass who commit these offences can no longer act as escorts, and not by taking that pass but by taking other measures? For me, it is no reason to stop this change of law, but it seems important to me that we stay on top of that when it comes to implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you. I call Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for giving some clear answers. I agree with Mr Jetten's comment on enforcement by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. That was also the reason why Mr Van Aalst spoke with an amendment. I myself asked some questions about this in the first period. It literally states that an impact analysis needs to be carried out by the police and that a priority should be given to the police when it comes to adapting software. The Minister makes it very clear that it happened. So I'm assuming that impact analysis took place. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that. It would have been good if the Chamber had received information about that. Perhaps that would have been an amendment tabled by Mr Van Aalst, but he will be able to answer that. I understand what the Minister is saying, precisely because there are so many young people who still go on this route just before their 18th, at least get their license. I am inclined to support this because we too believe it is important that young people should be able to obtain their driving licences under supervision and then continue to drive under supervision. I am a little bit stuck with the fact that there is not quite clarity about road safety. The Minister clearly states that data are being collected and that they continue to do so. The same applies to road accident registration. At the end of the debate, I do not feel entirely satisfactory, although I understand the context in which we are doing so. It's just rowing with the belts we have. I'd like to dwell on the accompanying card. The Minister states that she punishes young people, but the counselor is also entitled to a good counselor. It's crazy if the counselor's misbehaving, but he's still allowed to drive. I have raised it several times in written consultation, but I have not received a clear answer. So I'm still looking for what we can do when it comes to the counselor. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. Maybe the Minister can respond to that. Then I might be able to hold the motion. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that 2toDrive offers young people the opportunity to gain one year of additional practical experience for their 18th birthday under the supervision of a supervisor and thus has an important role as a model;]] [[noting that the requirements to be met by escorts in order to be able to provide guidance have now been tightened;]] [[Whereas it should be possible to ensure, even after the accompanying card has been issued, that accompanying persons comply with traffic safety requirements and obligations;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to be able to take away his accompanying card when the escort is under the influence or is guilty of other serious traffic offences;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of losing its accompanying card if a counselor has been found guilty of a serious crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34693-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u49	You've run out of time, Mrs. Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes. I would like to make a brief comment, Mr President. Drug legislation has recently been implemented. Can the Minister say anything about the initial results, given that we are talking about risks here? What is the status of enforcement so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I call Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. I've heard the Minister's answer. Thank you for that. I would have hoped, given the written input of the various groups, that I would have been able to convince my colleagues, in particular, of the adjustment of the starting dates. One more question for the Minister. The simple recognition of this by the public prosecutor and the police when it comes to enforcement seems to us to be special, especially since I think the prosecutor and the police indicate that it is difficult to enforce. That makes sense to us, too. Again, the standard beginner's term is five years. If you're under 18, the term for your AM driving licence is seven years, but over 18, five years. If you're over 18, you've got AM driver's license, and then you get B driver's license, then it's seven more years. That is a fantastic example of how everyone is getting along at some point. We therefore once again call for the introduction of an overall starting period. I believe that we will avoid a great deal of misery towards the future. I shall come back briefly to the accident figures and the investigation. We are surprised that the Minister states that a 30% turnout in an investigation is a proper response. As far as we're concerned, it's only 30%. I do not understand that we now have to test a legislative proposal for only a 30% response. How's the secretary gonna secure that in the bill? Do we choose to require all those who have used accompanied driving to complete a survey, so that at least an image of how successful this has actually been? The PVV is not convinced of what has now been provided with facts and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. There are no further speakers on the House's side in the second term. I'll see if the minister can answer right away. That's the case. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for their second term contribution. Mr Jetten referred once again to the broad support for improving accident registration. I have already indicated that there will be a letter on what else we are going to do. The discussion is not so much that it is not done well enough. The discussion is more what you like and what you can't do, what you can't connect to each other and what you can't do, and what's priority at the time of an accident. Those things fight a little bit with each other. It's not like in the past that it just wasn't looked at anymore. The police are aware of the need to look closely at the causes and to report on them. I welcome the fact that Mr Jetten supports the deadline, but he still has further questions about the accompanying card and its clarity. The same applies to Mrs Visser. What exactly is the impact of what a counselor can and cannot do? It is indeed not about the accompanying pass, because the accompanying pass is something that the rider, so the younger, owns and not the older. It's mostly about the behavior of the person who guides. At the front you need to be screened completely. If you still commit an offence while accompanying or at the time you drive yourself, then the following applies. During the supervision, the police will check that a supervisor meets the requirements of the supervisor. If not, the supervisor will be given a report, but so will the young person, who will then be driving with a counselor who does not meet the requirements. For example, when accompanying, a counselor should not be under influence. So the younger can't act as the bob for the supervisor; otherwise he has nothing at all to do with the supervisor. The accompanying person must have a valid B driving licence. Therefore, that should not have been recovered, withheld or declared invalid in the context of an action procedure or on the basis of the recidivism procedure. That seems important to me to know. Why wouldn't you be able to deal with a counselor who doesn't meet the requirements through the driver's license? Because it's complex. The measures relating to the driving licence are the result of acts carried out by a person as a driver of a motor vehicle subject to a driving licence, e.g. driving under the influence, a serious speeding offence or causing an accident. For example, under the recidivism, you can only impose driving disqualification if a driver of a motor vehicle has committed serious traffic offences. When accompanying a young person, a companion does not act as a driver and that makes it complex to take the driving licence even if the accompanying person makes a mistake in the supervision. So these are two different things: his own trespass and his offense as a guide. For a tutor accompanying under the influence I refer to this as an example of a sanction........................................................................................................................................................................................ Pursuant to that Article, the maximum penalty shall be a prison sentence of not more than three months or a fine of the third category. That's equal to a DUI driver. Well, that goes for the counselor. The penalty requirement to be included in the criminal proceedings directive which follows is not yet clear, but it is likely to be similar. What happens if the counselor, during the period during which he can act as a counselor, is himself caught as a driver for driving under the influence? Then there is also ordinary art. 130 of the Road Traffic Act and is imposed on him an educational measure and an examination of suitability. If he's been ordered to do so, he's not allowed to act as a counselor anymore. If he does, he's a criminal. That will be arranged in a soon to be offered to your Chamber draft AMvB regarding the driving licence regulation. So there are all kinds of elements to do that. The answer to the question of the current state of law enforcement must remain to you, Mrs Visser. Of course, it started recently. There is also discussion about drug versus drug use. I can ask the Minister of Justice if there is any information on this, but I think there are questions from the Chamber that are currently being studied. So maybe that's what that information comes up with. We will continue to investigate the impact further. Of course you hope that you will be able to see more effect on road safety over the years. But again, they have been doing it abroad for a long time and have also shown that it works positively. Mrs Visser has tabled a motion to examine how the accompanying card can be withdrawn. If the escort has been found guilty of a serious traffic offence, as I have just explained, and loses his license, he is no longer an escort. Only the pass doesn't belong to the handler. That makes it complex in Mrs Visser's motion. In fact, you should change the motion in the sense that a name can be crossed off the pass or something like that instead of the accompanying card being withdrawn, because on the pass can also be four others, which are good. I would actually ask Mrs Visser to look at it again. We agree on the fact that the supervisor should be punished and not be able to act as a supervisor, but that is different from taking the accompanying card because it does not belong to the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u55	I think we are in agreement, and I actually want to make a suggestion. I withdraw the motion, because the Minister states that she is working on a draft decision, which also regulates the criminalisation and the like, in the spirit of this motion. If, having heard today's debate, it is incorporated into the draft decision, then we can, as a Chamber, assess whether everything we have done here today is being adequately met. I hereby withdraw the motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u56	Since Mr Fisher's motion (No) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u57	I am glad to hear that, and I will certainly take that into account in the draft decision as we are making it now. I come to Mr Van Aalst's questions. He regrets that he has not received more support for the amendment. I said earlier in the debate that I understand his reasoning for trying to make things right. He also mentioned many terms, seven years, five years, seven years, five years. This makes it more uniform for the motorist, only not for the moped and moped user. Yes, the police and the D.A. have said at first that an impact analysis must be carried out. That's what they actually say in all the changes we want to apply. The reaction always comes about an impact analysis and the question of how much it costs. That's perfectly right. You can come up with a lot of policy ideas, but the performers must, of course, be able to do it and be able to maintain it. In the end, therefore, it has turned out that they see this as a small adjustment of their ICT, i.e. the cost side, and that the enforcement side is no longer a major problem. Mr Van Aalst also reiterated his concerns about representativeness. If you ask a group of 100,000 young people to fill out a list voluntarily and there is a 30% response, I think that's high, especially for young people. We do not, however, make mandatory obligations on this point. We simply continue to conduct investigations under the guidance of SWOV and other parties who always do so for us in order to make a good picture of road safety. We will do the same for this route, but making surveys compulsory will not be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. Then we arrived at the end of the second term from the government and at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-3.u59	The bill and the amendment will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
