ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u1	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. My group believes that national legal frameworks are important precisely in the case of decentralisation, as is actually happening with the shift from environmental law to local authorities. That does not mean that my group has no confidence in local authorities. However, if you want to ensure that trust and make it clear and transparent for citizens, legal frameworks are extremely supportive in order to achieve good decision-making, including the democratic legitimacy associated with it. I would like to comment on a number of answers from the Minister. I come first to the separation of functions in cases where a local government is both the initiator of a project and the guarantor of quality and decision-making. It is a good thing that the Minister has indicated in this debate today that she will strive for a more rigorous separation at administrative level. It will do so not only at the level of individuals, but also at the level of executives. We are pleased with that. The Minister has chosen this direction in consultation with the Commission for the M.E.R. She has promised us that she will send us the hand-out in which all this is laid down before it is finalized. However, my group still has some doubts about this. We wonder, for example, whether the separation at the level of managers is really sufficient. We also question the administrative separation. The Minister says that it is not necessary because Europe does not ask for it and does not want to do more than what Europe is asking for. She also says that the General Law states that any administration must decide without prejudice. But then you might ask yourself why, in the case of initiatives of which the local government itself is the initiator, you would not exactly arrange for the administrative separation. My group believes that this will give clarity and clarity to all parties. Citizens can be so confident that a good decision can also be made independently at this level. My second point concerns the Commission's independent review of the EIA project. As the Minister himself pointed out, the environmental impact assessment is crucial to ensure the environmental importance of all decision-making for which this is relevant. The Minister says that the Environment Act makes the independent review optional in all cases. It stated in its written reply that this would not be a problem and cited the example of the Crisis and Recovery Act. On this basis, it trusts that the competent authority, for example local authorities, will almost always carry out an independent review. But from my information from the Commission for the m.e.r. It appears that only 5 out of 100 projects under the Crisis and Recovery Act have been subject to a voluntary independent review. That is contrary to what the Minister is putting forward here. I'm a little worried about that. In a letter, the Minister can provide the Chamber with further information on how we assess the Commission's position on the issue. on the independent reviews carried out so far in the context of the EIA project? I also asked for an assessment of the impact of the sharp increase in costs. The Minister says it will not arrive until 2018. That means we have to wait a long time for that. We would like to have a quicker understanding of this. I would like to mention two examples of the Commission's approach to the m.e.r. who don't feel optimistic about me. I refer to the project at the southern ring road Groningen, the A7, which had a major impact on the environment, not only on citizens and businesses, but also on all kinds of other parties. That project is never for review by the Commission for the m.e.r. presented, not at strategic level, the planning level, but also not later at project level. Another example is the expansion of the A27 between Houten and Hooipolder. A review took place in 2010 at the plan level, the strategic level. The Commission for the m.e.r. There were major concerns about the noise level, but there was never any test at project level to see whether the noise reduction measures were actually taken. The Commission for the m.e.r. is still very concerned about whether it is satisfactory at that level. I therefore urge you to be very critical on this point. I would therefore like to put the next motion to the House. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Stienen, Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the compulsory independent review of the EIA project is abolished and it is now up to the competent authority to decide whether or not to allow the Commission to carry out an independent review of the EIA project.;]] [[Whereas, in the case of complex projects in particular, an independent quality test is of great importance for ensuring the quality of the environmental impact assessment;]] [[Whereas independent quality testing makes an important contribution to objectiveisation, transparency and participation by citizens and stakeholders;]] [[calls on the Government, in the case of more complex projects, to monitor annually how often and in what cases an independent test by the Commission for the m.e.r. take place and report to the Court;]] [[In addition, in two years' time, the government calls on the Commission to evaluate the effects of removing the obligation to carry out an independent quality review of the M.E.R. in the case of complex projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34287-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u3	We also asked questions about monitoring. We lack a legal guarantee that ensures that monitoring is mandatory at all times. That is not the case now, because the competent authority is assessing whether this monitoring is necessary. We do not think that is enough. As far as we are concerned, there is also an omission here. With regard to participation, the Minister stated that citizens can not only go to court, but also be involved in the project from the very beginning and have opportunities to submit views. That is true, of course, but there are a number of tough conditions for this. It is precisely then that the objective, independent information, which the Commission has tested for the m.e.r., is the objective, independent information. It is of great importance that it be delivered. That makes information objectivable and neutral. That also makes information available to those citizens. It is precisely on that point that the Minister does not take good care of matters. The same applies to the possible lack of monitoring. It is also important for citizens to know that environmental impacts are always being considered. The appropriate separation of functions, if the project is in fact the initiator of the project, must also be optimally secured, in order to ensure the confidence of citizens and the ability to speak properly. In conclusion, I repeat what I started with. Of course, there is every reason to have confidence in local authorities, but that trust must also be supported and earned. Then it will only be positive if, through a number of clear legal frameworks, you ensure that that trust can really be achieved. That is why I have made a number of critical comments on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, the Animal Party is not at all reassured that this law allows a thorough assessment of the environmental impact of projects. In line with what Mrs Vos just said, rules are not an expression of mistrust. As far as we are concerned, rules provide clarity for local authorities, citizens and businesses. It would only make sense if a separation of functions at administrative level was also mandatory, in addition to the legal principle of exclusion from bias. The latter is something other than the legal guarantee of a specific separation of functions. That is not a question of mistrust, it is a bit of the frame in which the Minister pours it but provides clarity about the way the procedure is set up. In the limited procedure for projects in the m.e.r. the independent review is optional. That's what we've been asking questions about. The Minister indicated that citizens still have the opportunity to object and appeal against a project, but that is a correction tool and should not be taken for granted as civic participation. Of course, it's part of that, but we'd rather avoid it. The Minister also said it was a correction option. That means we only have to use it if things go wrong. Therefore, it is wise to make the EIA test mandatory for projects. This also prevents a competent authority from carrying out the test because of the costs. I would like to join the Commission's concerns for the m.e.r., to which Mrs Vos referred, namely that fewer applications for a test would be made because of the costs. The Minister's argument differs fundamentally from that of the Animal Party in this respect with the Cabinet. We do want a mandatory review and we will discuss it later in the context of the Environment Act. We talked about the giga goat stable. Given the great risks to public health, all the damage to animal welfare and the major environmental risks, it is very strange that in our livestock-proof country such a giga goat stable can be introduced into the current Dutch legislation at all. With a good test, it would not have had to be made clear to the Council of State that not all nature areas were included in the impact assessment. This, too, points out that at least in this EIA directive we must have good guarantees for a proper independent review. I haven't heard any arguments from the Minister yet which show that certification is not necessary. All I keep hearing is that it would bring higher costs for business and government. However, the Minister states that no proper study has been carried out on the positive effects of certification on the environment. My group therefore sees insufficient grounds for apparently rejecting this potential additional quality test in advance. The European Commission has proposed it for a reason. The argument that it leads to higher costs certainly requires a well-founded argument in relation to the environment. In the whole process, therefore, sufficient substantive and independent information must be available to the competent authority, to representatives of the people and to citizens, in order to bring about decision-making that does justice to the living environment. An optional test for projects and the lack of certified advisors do not do well in my group for the availability of such information. That is why we will not, still, agree to this directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The underlying factor is that there are simply too many outstripped environmental and climate rules in this country, often imposed by the European Union. This makes processes unnecessarily viscous and does not give citizens real security; it is often false security. It is precisely for this reason that it is good to continue to look critically at this type of EIA guidelines. On the one hand, the EIA procedures therefore provide for over-bureau-cratisation. This is particularly evident in road projects. In my view, that is what the motion before us means by 'complex projects'. I think that nine out of ten infrastructure projects are involved, with a very high degree of bureaucracy. Eventually it will only cost more time and money and it only causes more annoyance to Dutch drivers who are in traffic, because they are forced to catch their car because the trains often do not drive. On the other hand, things are being pushed through very firmly in certain projects in which the government itself has an interest, such as the maled wind farms. In the first period, I have already argued that precisely this proposal leads to less legal certainty for citizens, because the criteria for monitoring are now more or less released to local authorities. In this respect, there is a little less certainty for citizens when there is a wind farm in the backyard. This degree of arbitrariness can be increased if wind farms are combined, so if a wind project is carried out within the maximum thresholds set and there is another one a little further, and all those wind farms together make our country possibly one large wind farm. We are certainly not waiting for that, but we must be able to test these effects. I'm asking the Minister for a response to this. Then the cost shift related to the monitoring data. The Minister already showed the example of a PAS monitor, an IPCC monitor, but all such monitoring data will soon have to be paid by the initiator. It is rather light in the written documents, but I think that the costs will be considerable for the private promoters in particular. They already have so much to do with Natura 2000 regulations, which require them to meet very high standards because of Brussels nature rules. If this data gets back on top of that, the end is completely lost in view of all these climate and nature regulations. Finally. I have not yet received an answer to my question on the current state of implementation in the other European Member States. Is the Netherlands taking the lead again or is it already settled in other countries? I would like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for answering many of our questions. This has certainly taken away some of our concerns. I think we all agree that a number of issues will come back to the discussion of the four AMvBs of the Environment Act and the handling of the introduction law. We reserve the right to return to a number of questions that were raised today. I would like to thank the Minister for making it very clear that she is taking a very serious look at the environmental impact of all projects. We think it is very important that the Minister has made it very clear how she looks at the separation of functions and that she should add some more depth to that. We agree with the GroenLinks spokesman that this should also be done at administrative level. The Minister has promised to send the report to the Lower House with the evaluation of the rates and costs. I assume she'll send that to this room, too. However, I have one more question that could perhaps be deepened a little more: the fact that the costs have to be borne by the initiator could eventually lead to fewer requests for scrutiny by the Commission for the m.e.r.? Finally. My group has another concern. What happens if citizens or companies disagree with the outcome of an EIA? Is it said that there are sufficient opportunities for participation? Colleagues have already mentioned a number of examples of this. In a number of places in the Netherlands, it would be helpful to have a clearer reference to the legal remedies available, for example because of the administrative culture in the relevant municipality, the size of that municipality or perhaps the population of that municipality. We look forward to the remaining answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with what my colleague has said. I recently read about a ruling by the Council of State in the case of the Reusel-De Mierden municipality. In that case, a zoning plan was suspended because the requirement for sufficient participation in the process was not met when the relevant zoning plan was adopted. That is a bit of a pain in this debate: what can we do to avoid going to court or the Council of State unnecessarily and too much? What can we do in the system to ensure that governments are sufficiently willing and able to respond to the need for participation and information in such a way that citizens can learn about it in an accessible, neutral way before a decision is taken? I have raised two points in my contribution. The Minister said to come back on my first point in second term. This concerns the separation between the information report, which should provide full and adequate information to citizens in the context of the impact of the project or plan before it, and the administrative advice and decision-making process. I am not talking about the administrative advice, but about the information report that is underneath, which should provide complete information on the basis of which administrative decision-making can take place. I believe that in the context of this administrative separation, as implemented in the EIA Directive, it can be useful for this report to be made public before the administrative decision-making takes place. On my second point, we have philosophized a little more extensively in the framework of the Environment Act. This is in line with Mrs Stienen's question as to what is to be done in the context of the environmental law. We would very much appreciate it if we could go through a further debate in the context of conclusions that will allow citizens to use a neutral facility to test public sector information. The Minister has rightly said that the administration is deemed to be governed by the General Law, without prejudice to providing that information and preparing the decision-making process. But precisely the fact that the General Law on Administrative Law points out to the government that it should do so without bias shows that there is a natural tension in this. After all, the board was elected politically and administratively on the basis of a programme of projects to be carried out. My question is how this can be resolved, so that the information can be checked in a proper, possibly scientifically prepared manner, without immediately leading to a mandatory procedure within the framework of the EIA, precisely in the context of the participation dialogue that it involves. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I too thank the Minister for her answers. However, something has remained unclear to me. The Minister says that the checks-and-balances, the environmental interest and the competent authority, can be settled by the judge. Then I thought: you're a citizen and you'll have to watch everything in time; you'll have to stop time, money and effort to go to court to ask for a ruling. If people are not so alert and on their qui-vive, then perhaps the environment is the child of the account. The Minister also says that the citizen can participate in the front, i.e. at the beginning of the process. Well, then, of course, everything has to be right. The information must be correct, the distribution of powers must be correct, all the conditions must be right. I would like to hear from the Minister that the framework conditions are really all right and they are all right. These words will not surprise the Minister that we will support the Vos motion. I do believe that we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their second-term questions and comments. I understand that I have been able to deal with some of the concerns of some Members, but not all of them. In some cases, I do not think I will be able to remove the concerns, but that is the case in a multiparty system. I shall begin by answering Mrs Vos's questions. She is still concerned about the administrative separation in terms of the responsibility you have when you are also the initiator of the authority. Again, we will include in the hand-out an official divorce, including at the management level. We will also make a comment on the possibility of introducing an administrative separation, but I do not want to impose it with this bill. Well, I'll take that as an idea in the hand-out. That is what I am saying to Mrs Stienen, who had a bit of the same concern. Mrs Vos spoke about the independent review of the EIA project. It has a different picture of how that has happened than the Commission has of the m.e.r. himself. If the evaluation is there, it's good to watch it with each other. We do the evaluation on the basis of the amount of projects. Mrs Vos is actually asking how the Commission is doing. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can therefore also ask the Commission. ask her how she feels about this. I can take that judgment into account in the evaluation. The evaluation of the cost increase in relation to the m.e.r. will not come in 2018 but in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u10	When can we expect the evaluation that the Minister points out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u11	I think it's due in 2017. In spring 2017, you will have to complete the evaluation, so you can take the whole of 2016. This has to be processed first. After the summer of 2017, the evaluation can go to both Chambers, so also to the Upper Chamber. Mrs Vos and a number of other Members have tabled the motion under letter G. I'm getting a whole bunch of extra cheating slips. I'll try to organize it in a minute. The motion points out that an independent quality review of projects no longer exists. It is proposed to evaluate this and to evaluate its impact after two years. I see this point popping up every time. Since the entry into force of the Law on the Modernisation of the Environmental Impact Assessment in 2010 I have always said 2012, but the law came into force in 2010 and a distinction has already been made between the extended procedure and the limited procedure. It has also been said that the project procedure should no longer be used. That is not, therefore, a consequence of this directive. The amendment of the Commission's rates in particular has also been arranged and discussed before. I think it is a good thing that the same questions keep coming back to other proposals, but they have been raised before. Do you have to evaluate that separately? There are concerns about this in this Chamber, also in view of the broad signing. I would dissuade it in this way and in this form, but that does not mean that I also advise against the content of the motion. Let me explain. There is an annual reporting of the Crisis and Recovery Act. There's a lot of information in there. The Commission is also aware of this. has an annual report in which this information can be found. I am prepared to pay particular attention in both evaluations to the specific questions raised in the motion. Otherwise we will have a third evaluation similar to or similar to the two evaluations we already know. If the authors of the motion can agree to this, I will respond to their concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u12	I thank the Minister for this commitment. It now proposes that the questions raised in the motion be included in the review of the Crisis and Recovery Act. The motion also asks that only if the law that we are discussing today has been passed and the Environmental Act is in force continue to report on how often and for which projects independent assessment at project level by the Commission in particular. and to evaluate its impact. The motion not only calls for the review of the Crisis and Recovery Act. It is also a question of how things will proceed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u13	We now have an annual report of the Crisis and Recovery Act. When the Crisis and Recovery Act enters into the Environment Act, there are of course also evaluations of the Environment Act. I do not know exactly whether these evaluations will be carried out annually or biannually, but there will also be a report on this. In addition, the Commission also took note of the Commission's proposal. annual reporting with this information. That is why I also suggested that this aspect should be taken into account in both evaluations. The Commission...................................................................................................... will remain as long as we want to be with each other. If it's done that way, it's secured in two ways. After two years, I have been asked to evaluate the effects of no longer requiring an independent quality test in the case of complex projects. If we were to introduce things only now, it would not be possible, but since it has been going on for some time now, I think we can do the same. The question is to what extent you can estimate all that. If something isn't done, you can't know what the effect is. I leave it to the Commission to decide. to see how best to implement this. I therefore advise against the motion in this form, but I am prepared to adapt our own assessments to it. We have also been asked when the evaluation of tariffs will take place. As I have just said, this evaluation will be carried out in spring 2017, so that the 2016 data can still be taken into account. We've been asked about the separation of functions. It has been said that it is difficult for citizens to invoke the General Administrative Law Act. That question was also asked by Mrs Meijer. I see she went back a little bit. There is a possibility of participation at the front. The city council, which is also a representative of the citizen, also takes decisions on the route. It may be possible to appeal to the courts only afterwards. So that's not the only option. It is, of course, difficult, especially for citizens. This applies to many other legislative issues, and not just to this. You don't solve that with the law, because the other way around it would be hard. It is difficult to include in the law how to prove that competent authority does not adhere to separation of functions. In the end, it is a matter of giving each other the opportunity to say something about the view. The city council is the controlling body. After that, you could go to court if you could prove that things have happened that are really not acceptable. But as a Empire, you can't solve this at the front, given all the decentralised situations that can arise. The Party for Animals has asked about the administrative separation. I just answered that question. It also asked for the independent test at the EIA project. Here again and again, I feel that it has become optional with this directive. That is not the case. It was thus regulated by the Law on the Modernisation of the Legislation on Environmental Impact Assessment. The Environment Act doesn't make it any less. It states precisely that it is possible to request an independent opinion. So there's just something coming up instead of something going off. I come to certification through the European Commission. In the Environmental Policy Act, the Commission's opinion on environmental issues remains. Stand by. A system of additional certification is therefore not necessary. The Commission's opinion After all, it just stays in place. Therefore, no further research has been carried out into the system of certification. This concerns the implementation of the EU Directive. There is therefore no change to the current rules. The PVV has indicated that it is not in favour of the law on European involvement. It asked for the cumulation of an effect of wind farms. If there is a risk of accumulation of an effect of a wind farm, there is also a potential for significant environmental impacts. It's got to be in the m.e.r. are being investigated. The competent authority should also take into account that information on cumulation in the decision. Therefore, the cumulation of effects is certainly being considered. I see Mr Van Hattem is also in another place. They also asked for cost shifts. Strictly speaking, it may mean a cost shift for a group of individual promoters, but the overall size of mandatory monitoring is decreasing. The competent authority must now monitor all environmental impacts of a decision. It does so partly on the basis of information to be provided by the initiator. With this bill, you can monitor much more closely. The competent authority should specify the effects to be monitored and how the effects should be monitored by the initiator. In addition, the EIA assessment may take into account measures to avoid significant environmental impacts. This will prevent the creation of an EIA if there is no significant environmental impact. I do not expect any increase for all initiators together, but it can lead to this in an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u14	I am particularly concerned about the PAS monitoring in Natura 2000 sites. It is already very complicated to properly map all the calculations for nitrogen measures in so many natural areas. I fear that the costs for individual promoters, private promoters, will rise dramatically. I would therefore like to have an insight into the effects of this. Maybe it's going to be a little more or a little less as a whole. I read that there will be a greater need for monitoring, so overall it may even increase. But I would like a little more clarity on the effects for private promoters, particularly in the area of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u15	I cannot specifically indicate whether more or less will be asked for in the area of nitrogen. The information houses will make it easier, because then there will be much more information available to a large group. Now almost every municipality or initiator has to ask their own consultancy firm to map this out. Of course, this is a lucrative business for consultancy firms. Soon that information will be present in the information houses. It will be validated, checked and accessible to everyone. I think it's gonna matter about the cost. But if an initiator wants something, he must of course also make it clear whether he is not doing any damage. In an individual case, this can well lead to more costs. Everyone will eventually have to look into whether he has a good business case and will have to ask himself: does what I want outweigh the cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u16	If you want something and you can do with it supposed environmental damage... Especially the agricultural sector is subject to a lot of rules, both from local authorities and from Brussels. Certain deadlines are set: you have to comply with these and those environmental regulations before then. That's a lot to do in a couple of years. If the monitoring comes up again, I think that a lot of farms, especially agricultural holdings, will at some point reach a point where they can't make it anymore. That could be another head blow for the agricultural sector. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she sees this risk. Does she want to see if this risk exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u17	You must now monitor all the environmental impacts of a decision, but you will be able to do so much more effectively. I don't think this is gonna get any worse. This is what makes it better and more targeted. I will give you a practical example that I have given before in the First Chamber. Years ago, I bought a pawn that once belonged to my house. That had gone to the neighbors in 1910, but came back into my possession in 2005. I then had to submit a proposal to the municipality to see what the effects of the annexation of the Secret Annex were. However, that back house was already there and nothing changed in the sunshine. Only one door was moved from the side to the front. Those rules lead you to wonder why you need to visualize certain things, when that is not strictly necessary. That will be done in the future. The monitoring will look into what matters are important to know. You're gonna have to map them all. This reduces general costs. The VNG sees that decrease, too. It expects it to go down in a number of parts, even though it is not so much the result of this proposal. I think it only improves on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u18	We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr Van Hattem asked about the state of implementation in other countries. The directive has already been implemented in Poland. It is remarkable that the country that is now the most opposed to Europe has implemented this directive first. Other Member States are at the same stage of legislation as the Netherlands and are trying to reach the stated date of 16 May. The Commission will monitor this as well. If that doesn't work, you'll be defaulted. D66 has indicated that it is less concerned about the debate, but still calls for specific attention to be given to a few points, either now or in the context of the Environment Act. I've just gone over the administrative separation. I will also pay attention to this in the hand-out. An evaluation of the rate and costs was also requested. I just responded to the motion co-signed by D66. In addition, D66 was concerned that fewer applications might be made to the Commission for the m.e.r. if the evaluation of the projects is no longer mandatory. We had that discussion a few years ago. It will undoubtedly have an effect. If it is no longer mandatory, it will be less than if it is 100%. But the question is, of course, how it ultimately works out, because by not forcing it anymore, of course you want to avoid doing it at times when it is not necessary. It seems particularly important to me to make the substantive review transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u20	I would like to clarify this point. If the initiator is also the performer and the driver, especially in the case of a small municipality, we are concerned that the initiator may consider not to apply because there are additional costs. I can imagine that this could be particularly a problem for small municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u21	This is in itself separate from the directive we are implementing. This has to do with the previous proposal for modernisation. We have agreed that we will evaluate that. That evaluation will come in 2017. It will then become insightful. Again, if the competent authority is both initiator and a small municipality with little money, it still has to do with citizens who can express their views and with the city council who can say something about it. The judge may also indicate at the end of the trial whether or not it has been done carefully. Environmental impact studies are, of course, carried out anyway, but on top of that there is no independent review. I think it is important to continue to underline this. If we stop doing independent testing, it doesn't mean we haven't looked at the environment at all. I will make it all available and transparent, including for the D66 Group. D66 has also indicated the importance of participation. She has indicated that she would like to talk about this, also within the framework of the Environment Act. Of course, it must be much more than just a handout in terms of participation. For example, a change in the administrative culture is also needed. We do a lot of that in the context of the Environment Act. For example, we do a lot of introduction guidance. It focuses on working under the Environment Act. The Crisis and Recovery Act also makes it possible, under circumstances, to experiment with the Environment Act. A lot of municipalities already do that. This does not require an adjustment to this implementation. There will be extensive information and attention to be paid to this in the hand-out. The PvdA asked for the opinion of the official on the EIA. It indicated that it is not so much about the opinion of the official but rather about the information. I do think that's a good thing. I would always like to protect the official's judgment. It may be payable through a WOB request, but I think that as a driver I should consider a personal policy concept and the importance of disclosure. We will make the information available in two ways. The draft report on an environmental impact assessment will be sent to the Board for the decision and the final report that will serve as decision-making for the college will also be available to the Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u22	I was concerned not only with the EIA procedure, but also with those situations where there is no environmental impact report, but with an independent file with an information level on which the decision-making of the College can be based.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u23	I'll do it in two steps. I was indeed talking about the concept of the EIA and the possible environmental impact report in which decisions are taken. Mr Verheijen also referred to the fact that, on some points, the independent review of the environmental impact report was to be carried out. But when the independent review is gone, there is still an EIA with information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u24	I admit it's confusing, because we're talking about an official separation of functions. I was concerned that where no EIA procedure is used, i.e. in an optional situation, a decision with a report is prepared by the College of B and W or by GS. Is the independent information report, which must describe the adequacy and completeness of the effects of the project on its environment, irrespective of the official advice whether or not the project should continue, publicly available in its objectivity, prior to the decision-making process between B and W and the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u25	You need to map the environmental impacts and then the Commission will check for the m.e.r. Whether that's done well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u26	If that's what you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u27	Yeah, if that's what you're asking. Now, here's what you're asking. Suppose you don't ask for that, is that environmental impact information available? Yes, because that report is not the environmental review report, but the environmental impact report itself will be sent to the board in concept, and later the final report, which is part of the decision-making process of the college, will also be sent to the board. If there are environmental impacts, a college must always produce an environmental impact assessment. That is sometimes the confusing thing with the independent review. In short, yes, we will do what Mr Verheij asked for. Finally, Mr Verheijen asked for objective information for the citizen. The purpose of the information houses is to make all relevant and underlying data available objectively and transparently to everyone, including citizens. Many institutions will also be involved, such as the RIVM, but also the Commission for the M.e.r. I agree with Mr Verheijen that the information houses should also be validated. I agree to look at how we can shape that further in the Environment Act, in committee or in another way, so that people can ask again if it has been properly processed. How can unbiasedness be secured without going straight to court? Citizens and interest groups may submit views on the draft decision. Later, they may, if necessary, appeal against the final appeal. They can also contact the city council and the provincial states, and are enabled to do so through good, neutral information, which is made available through the information houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u28	Most of the SP's questions have been answered in the previous one, but I had not answered one question. At least I had already answered that question, but new questions arose with the SP spokesperson in response to the answer. The question is whether the environment is adequately protected. The EIA legislation is intended for this purpose. If there is an environmental impact, you have to make an environmental impact assessment anyway. If you are planning an EIA, you still have to ask for an independent review. Only with a project-MER you can choose whether or not to do so. That depends entirely on whether the competent authority thinks that this is wise. It is often useful for them too, even in the later procedures, so it is an important instrument. It is precisely intended to identify environmental impacts. Once again, with this implementation of the directive, I have not further weakened the environmental impact. The discussion we are having today is largely based on previous changes to the laws. For years the SP may think that it should not have been, but that is not what is on the table today. With this, I hope to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-5.u29	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I therefore propose that we vote on this next Tuesday.
