ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the European Summit. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor. Perhaps it would be useful if we knew how the Prime Minister's speech was built, so that we could take that into account when interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Yes. Then you're mild. Then you assume that there is an argument. We got Brexit. I thought I'd separate that subject. All things to do with EMU. Then migration, social and then a rest post. That is where the Middle East peace process, PESCO and European identity are at. Those are the things that have been asked a few separate questions about. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Brexit. I can, of course, make a very long or short speech about this, because, frankly, we do not know much more than that the Commission is now advising to establish that there is sufficient progress to move on to phase 2. We know, of course, on the basis of which the Commission advises. This is done on the basis of the opinion of the chief negotiator Michel Barnier, and it also seems that the European Council will be able to agree to this. That's good news in itself. This was done on the basis of discussions which resulted in more detailed agreements on the three subjects last Friday: the border, citizens' rights and the divorce bill. The point is, of course, that you are not quite sure whether this is going to work, because this must then be put into an Article 50 Treaty. We won't know until March 2019 if this worked out in time. An over-the-clip scenario is still possible because, as you know, we can only really negotiate a new relationship in a legal sense after March 2019, but the substantive discussions, the more political discussions, will of course start next year. It cannot be ruled out that the United Kingdom will also establish a political link between the final adoption in legal texts of last Friday's agreements and the degree of progress in the political discussions that are taking place on the future relationship. That is about where it is now in the very complex system that we have in the Union, so the good news is that sufficient progress can be made to actually move on to the second stage. What would that mean in a legal sense? A number of questions have been asked, among others by Mr Buma. This would mean that such an Article 50 Treaty would provide for the UK to commit itself to guaranteeing citizens' rights and that there would also be a role for the EU Court of Justice. That's what it's provided for. Secondly, the UK has committed itself to fulfilling all its financial obligations. Thirdly, further negotiations are now needed on what alignment means for the Irish/Northern Irish border. But at least it has been established that in the texts that are before us it has taken shape which seems sufficient for the Irish Government to be able to move on to that next stage. Mr Azarkan van DENK asked what would happen next. This means that the agreement in principle is now being worked out in treaty texts. In addition, negotiations on the first phase topics which still need further elaboration, such as Euratom and data protection, should be concluded. Thirdly, we are working on the new negotiating directives for the next stage, for the transitional period. And we're going to design all the internal homework about that future relationship right now. It is only after the additional guidelines for the future relationship have been established by the European Council that these exploratory talks on the framework of the new relationship can also begin. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, Mr Mulder's question was: what are the expectations of that outcome? When I look at this future relationship, my suspicion is that this relationship will be less profound than in the case of EU membership. We are, of course, trying to limit the damage as much as possible from the Dutch point of view, but you can also see the statements of the British negotiator, who says: I want a kind of Canada-plus-plus-plus-plus-plus-plus. That might indicate that I'm going to interpret that they also want the services to remain part of a future relationship. So not only products and goods, but also the services market, so also the City. That is only the question, because we know that this can only be done if you are part of an internal market. Being part of this means that the British must also respect, for example, the different freedoms, including the free movement of persons, which was one of the problems in the Brexiatre. The other extreme is, of course, that it goes wrong. Then there will be no agreement on the future relationship and so you will fall back on international agreements and international law, such as WTO rules. This means customs controls, waiting times at the border, no air traffic between the UK and the European Union, at least on the basis of existing conventions, and no exchange of information, for example with regard to criminals. That would have far-reaching consequences, and of course no one wants to do so. Anyway, that's the ultimate consequence. Then Mr Buma asked about the reckoning which you can now take into account, what amount. First of all, the UK will continue to contribute to the annual budget up to 2020, as there is also now a transitional period. They have promised to honour all the financial commitments they have made as an EU member. This is also in line with the commitment made by the EU-27: that the things to which we had committed ourselves with the twenty-eight of us will also be paid by the 28. Furthermore, an important agreement is that the UK will continue to contribute and participate in the multiannual financial framework that runs until 2020. So this is also about the implementation of the EU budget 2019-2020. The UK will contribute to the EU's obligations until the end of 2020. In addition, the UK remains responsible for its share of the conditional obligations of the European Union, e.g. guarantees for the European Stability Financial Mechanism and the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which have been built up until the moment of exit, until they are fully phased out in the future. The same applies to guarantees in the loan portfolio in the European Investment Bank. The point is that there are no exact amounts here, because there is actually only some kind of formula on the table. As far as we are concerned, that is also fine, because it is now visible which elements are in it. This includes all the elements to which the Netherlands and indeed all 27 countries have always attached great importance. Where that ends in a financial sense, exactly, will become visible as we move forward in time. Of course, this constructive ambiguity may also have helped to get out now, because different parties can now make different predictions about that exact final amount. That's just a bit of a part of this phase. It is important for the Netherlands and the 27 that all these elements have now been recognised by the British. The second element, as I understand it, also asked Mr Verhoeven, is the question of citizens' rights and the role of the European Court of Justice. I think we all agree that people should not be the child of the account. We believe that it is now so arranged that the rights of EU citizens and their family members in the UK will remain guaranteed after the Brexit under this agreement. This means, among other things, that after five years in the UK EU citizens and their family members will have permanent right of residence and in most cases they will retain the right to family reunification. It also provides certainty about safeguarding rights for existing EU citizens in the UK in the field of social security. The current rules in this area continue to apply to these citizens. This concerns, for example, the export of benefits, care and the compilation of periods in the building up of social security rights. Think of the WW insurance periods. And citizens can actually enforce their rights before a British judge. Those British judges, then, I come to the point that the Court of Justice is obliged to respect the relevant existing EU case-law and to take due account of relevant future EU case-law. They can then also refer cases voluntarily to the European Court of Justice during the first eight years following the entry into force of this Article 50 agreement. There was also a special question from Mr Verhoeven, about the application of those rights. The exit agreement provides for an administrative procedure for applying for a permanent residence permit which will have the same guarantees as those provided for in the Directive on the free movement of persons, including support for non-digitally connected applicants. The sole reason for refusal may be if the applicant is not covered by the scope of the exit agreement, or for public policy or security reasons. In other words, procedures should not create additional conditions and costs should remain low. I think that's important. As far as Ireland is concerned, I now believe that it is important for both the Irish and the British to say: it is indeed the case at the moment. The EU-27 has agreed to this. I myself was in Dublin last Wednesday with the Irish colleague, who listens to the wonderful job title 'taoiseach'. He was, of course, very concerned about the state of the negotiations at the time. They were jammed on Mondays and I was there on Wednesday. Then the knot had to be pulled on Thursday. I know that this is a very important point for them, but well, there will now be a separate route on that border issue in the second phase of the negotiations. In doing so, the United Kingdom will have to indicate how they will fully implement the term "full alignment." Here too, we are waiting for proposals from the United Kingdom, where of course two things are very important for the Netherlands, namely the prevention of a hard border and at the same time preventing the Irish/Northern Irish border from becoming a back door to the internal market, and two: we must ensure that political stability is not called into question in both the Republic and the province. I am referring in particular to the province, where this stability returned in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement. I see Mr. Buma getting ready to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	I have to be very careful with my interruptions, so I'll put it in one question so I can ask a question later. Is there anyone in Europe who has any idea what this could look like at all? Because I can figure out what I want, but I have no idea how to combine the exit, so the Brexit, with no border, with the European market, with what the British want, but no border between Northern Ireland and England. Am I right that no one knows that? That we hope the British know, but that in March 2019 there can just be nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yeah, that's all right. That's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	Of course, there's something worrying about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	There are variants conceivable, but then I'm going to speculate. A variant may be that you make a cut between the internal market and the customs union. A haircut could be made there. It is even conceivable that this border will eventually be in the Irish Sea and not between Northern Ireland and Ireland. But, yeah, I don't know. It will really be up to the British to come up with proposals for how they will implement that commitment to alignment. But I fully agree with Mr Buma. Those citizens' rights, citizens' rights, and the divorce bill, they're still fairly straightforward trials. But this is extremely complex, both legal and political, because of the position, of course, and then I am going to interfere with the internal British political relations of the Northern Irish Unionists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	In that last scenario of possibly no deal: the English regularly shout "we'll get out and then we'll pay the bill of whatever it is, just not." How do you look at the scenario they're saying "we're holding it back"? They're good negotiators, these British, they're famous for that. Isn't that a weird way to go next stage with each other when that sword of Damocles is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	That sword of Damocles remains, as long as there is no final agreement on an article 50 divorce contract. What we now have are the political contours of it. It contains a handshake from the British Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission. That's worth something. There's a gentlemen's agreement. There is a very detailed and comprehensive piece of work underneath, but this must now be further developed, eventually also in legal texts. So what I said: yes, it is theoretically conceivable that you will not get out before March 2019. Nobody wants that at all, because that has far-reaching consequences for the British in the first place. Their trade relations with Europe are extensive. A large part of the trade, of their economic links, are with Europe. It's very bad for everyone if that were to happen, but it can't be ruled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	Then let me reverse the question. Is it conceivable that the negotiators on the part of Europe will say to the UK: if we don't get a deal because we can't get out of it, even if we want to, then we have to accept that we don't get that money? Is that a reason to say: well, then let's get a lot of water on the wine, because we want the 50 billion and then we give the English part of it but their way, otherwise they won't pay the 50 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	Well, no, the point is this. The Netherlands considers all three equally important: the rights of citizens, the money and the border. That is what I said to the Irish colleague. There is, of course, a certain fear in Ireland that Europe will eventually say: those two are more important than that border. We consider all three equally important, for the reasons mentioned by Mr Buma and others. And because you have to prevent backdoors in every way, that fuzzy future relations are created between the UK and the Union and that island, the republic and the province, get an unclear construction. They won't be able to pressure us by doing one and the other. It's all three equally important. It would go a long way if the UK were to say: we are not getting out, and with that the whole deal is off the table and we no longer feel obliged to pay the costs. Even morally, one could argue that the UK's financial obligation to the Union is completely separate from Article 50 and whether or not to reach an agreement. In the end, even in such a black scenario, they still have an interest in any relationship with Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	Wait a minute, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	I think so. That is what the British feel so far, and I have no reason to believe that there is a different view in the United Kingdom. However, bearing in mind your 'what if' scenario, I would be surprised if the British were to say that if everything goes wrong, they would no longer feel obliged to pay any contribution to their obligations towards the Union, where they then started to argue. Mr Asscher asked to keep an eye on issues such as standards and the race to the bottom at the next stage. I agree with him on his own. The high social standards we have agreed on in Europe must be preserved. Indeed, it is important to avoid a race to the bottom where, for example, there is competition on wages and labour rights. We will also keep a close eye on this in the next phase. Then it's Dutch importance. Of course, it is known that the Netherlands belongs to the group of countries that have great interests in this whole, perhaps even more than most others. I think most of all after Ireland, together with Flanders, Belgium, Denmark and, in part, France. Of course, we have very strong trade relations with the United Kingdom. Therefore, paradoxically, I would say that we are very much promoting that the EU-27 stays together. Count on it that there are people who think: well, the Netherlands has such a big interest, we can get them out of that connection of the EU-27. We have an interest in not letting that happen and doing our job well within that EU-27. Of course, the question was also asked about the growers, fishermen and agriculture as a whole. These are, of course, important issues for the Netherlands which are at issue in the second phase. Things will change, because on balance, however you turn or turn, this will not be good news for Dutch trade. But we're gonna try to limit the damage. There are, of course, Dutch sub-interests in sectors and themes that can be particularly hard hit: indeed, fisheries, but also aviation and the fight against international crime. Mr Bruins and Mr Mulder have drawn attention to this. Dutch cutter fishermen fishing for plaice and sole and Dutch trawlers fishing for mackerel, blue whiting and herring, which are to a large extent in the waters of England and Scotland. Maintaining access to those British waters and the allocation of fishing quotas is of great importance to them and their chain participants. We are mapping them well at the moment and we are also bringing them to the attention of the European Commission. Of course, the British themselves also have an interest in accessing their fish products to the European market. If they want to keep that access, then there must be something about it. So it is not the case that we are completely empty-handed, but it is an element that defines, in particular, the relationship between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom as regards trade and economic links.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	I can follow the strategy outlined by the Prime Minister very well, but I note that, in certain respects and at certain times, tension can arise between the EU's strong stance towards the UK and the Dutch interest. My question to the Prime Minister is then how he intends to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	That is a question that also came from the VVD in the first term. How do you see these coalitions at this point? I can say that, of course, we are looking for cooperation with many other countries on many issues in Europe. I refer to the talks with the Balten and the Nordics, and the consultations that we intensified with the V4 from the Benelux countries in June. The other consultations were also held from the Benelux countries. We are trying to strengthen the relationship with Spain and Portugal. And of course there is a special relationship with France and Germany. All contacts, whether on the future of EMU, on Brexit or on the future of migration policy, will address this issue. So we're building these coalitions and relationships there. It is very important that we maintain the unity of the 27 outwardly, because the British, of course, are known for their good diplomatic skills and they might have an interest in them. I don't think that's in their favor, but there might be people who weigh that up. So we must avoid this division. So behind the scenes, together with other countries, we must defend our interests towards the Commission. Every time we have to look for these coalitions, broad across the board, or specifically about fishing, about air rights or so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yeah, that's clear. Thank you for this explanation too. But I'm actually referring to the following. You will hear how those involved in the European Parliament sometimes act and you will hear how this sometimes happens from the European Commission. When you hear that, you notice that sometimes it rubs with just the interests of the Netherlands. That is a point on which I am not entirely reassured. I understand the strategy, and I appreciate it. But how are we going to do that towards the European institutions that are taking a tough stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	I don't know if they're tough on themselves. I think it was right at the stage we had that Europe was very clear. Europe said: yes, boys, listen, if we don't agree on the bill, the border and citizens' rights, we can't move on to the next stage. That's what I thought was a proper solid line-up. It is sometimes suggested that some countries might have an interest in making it as unpleasant as possible for the UK. I myself do not have that experience, because the countries that are then called, for example France, would also be severely affected by an disorderly Brexit. The French too have very close trade relations with the British. Moreover, since the Entente Cordiale, they have had a long-term defence cooperation. So the French have no interest in that either. So I'm not so terribly worried about that, but I can't give you any guarantees. And I think sometimes: well, that tweet might not have been necessary. So of course we try to slow down certain expressions behind the scenes. But, of course, that only works to a certain extent. We don't have everyone on a string. But this is really well built together. And you can also see that eventually the front closes again and again
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr President, Mr Bishop also asked about this idea from the United Kingdom about a CETA-plus-plus-plus-plus-plus-plus-plus. I have just said a few words about this. In general terms, I can say that the Netherlands, too, is in our interest to ensure that these future trade relations can be broad and deep. At the same time, however, we must of course maintain the logic of the European Union, namely that certain obligations also exist with regard to certain elements of free trade, involvement in the customs union and the internal market. If only to keep the 27 system intact. But also to remain an honour broker in, for example, the relationship with Norway and Switzerland. So we will always have to find a good balance in this. The item on British seats will come back in February. The question is, of course, raised. The European Parliament must come up with a proposal on this. At the beginning of January, the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs will vote on that proposal. Then we must vote unanimously in the European Council on this issue. The field of force in this area is currently unpredictable. The Dutch position is clear: our plea is to drop all 73 seats, in line with the Maijer motion. However, we must now wait and see what the European Parliament comes up with. Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group raised the question of the future on PESCO. What you see, both in the United Kingdom and in the rest of the European Union, is that there is broad recognition that cooperation in the field of security and defence is of real importance even after Brexit and that mutual security is closely linked to it. That means we're gonna look there, too, now that the second phase is starting, how we're gonna shape that relationship. There are no concrete plans yet, where the United Kingdom, of course, has a relatively large capacity, if you compare this with other Member States, whereas the actual contribution is small at the moment. So we still have some things to do there. However, my suspicion is quite frankly that at this point, security cooperation, PESCO, everyone is actually saying: we should try to keep it up as much as possible, even after Brexit. This does not affect internal market conditions or other agreements within the European Union about what can or cannot be done. To be honest, that's quite unrelated. You can even see Ireland, not a member of NATO, now participating enthusiastically in PESCO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	I am concerned about the contribution of the Netherlands to the European Union. Because the noises are getting louder, also as a result of a resolution from October, that the contribution of the Netherlands to the European Union may well go up considerably. And we're already the biggest net contributor. How's the Prime Minister gonna prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	By negotiating well. We will have to put a lot of time into that in the coming period. Then we will certainly come to talk about this. Then you talk about the two goals that we have: modernising the Multiannual Financial Framework, so that, for example, agricultural resources are not only used for maintaining traditional agriculture too much as is currently the case, but also for modern, environmentally sound agriculture such as the Netherlands is developing. Innovation in a general sense is what we are trying to promote, i.e. modernisation of the MFF, combined with the fact that we naturally attach great importance to the existing payment position, which we do not want to deteriorate. That's what we're gonna negotiate. I have no certainty now about the outcome of this; that will have to be shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	That's another soft approach: we're gonna negotiate. The motion for a resolution simply states that the Netherlands' rebate must be abolished, that the European Union must have its own resources, that European taxes must be introduced so that they do not have to keep their hands on the Member States every year. 1% of GDP is 1.23 GDP. So from all sides, such as the European Parliament, ALDE and our friends from the CDA, the Commission is called upon to generate more money for the European Union so that they can do beautiful things and beautiful projects. The question is: how is this Prime Minister going to prevent the Netherlands from paying more to the European Union and is he prepared to veto it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	Well, that MFF is achieved by unanimity in the European Council. Parliament has a limited role in this. I would also like to refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	A limited role in it? So this Prime Minister has a veto. The only thing he's saying here is I'm gonna negotiate. But I'm sure he'll come back next year and say, yes, we're making 8 billion and that's going to be 9.5 billion, because Brexit, the resolution, and it's all so important what they're doing there in Brussels. In other words, can the Prime Minister promise here that the Netherlands will not pay a dime extra to the European Union, not because of Brexit, not because of this motion for a resolution and that he will veto it if necessary to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	Well, if this is your negotiating strategy, you're sure you're gonna pay more. I'm glad the PVV isn't touching the buttons, because that would cost us a lot of money. I believe that the negotiating strategy I have just outlined is a sensible one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr President, the answer is incomprehensible. If your negotiating position is... I'll put in my veto if I don't do what I want, then you have a very strong negotiating position. So would the Prime Minister care to comment on this justified point? Is he going to negotiate hard enough to ensure that the Netherlands does not have to pay more to the European Union? Is he prepared to use the Dutch veto as a means of exerting pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	What do you mean, the Dutch veto? This is a conclusion you have to draw as 28, or as 27. So everyone has a veto at that table. That's why it always takes a whole night. So by definition, everyone has a veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	All countries have a right of veto and the decision is taken unanimously. So that means that as Prime Minister, you can say, "I'm sorry, but I'm not signing up for this." If the European Union feels that and knows that you mean it, then we will meet our demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	Here the European Union is just a logo, because these negotiations are taking place between 27 Member States, all of which need to be agreed. The European Union therefore does not exist here. This is really nothing more than a logo, it is a negotiation between 27 Member States. And they all have a right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	Is the Prime Minister going to stand up in these negotiations to stop paying to the EU? Is he going to use the Dutch veto as a leverage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	You know our position. We want to modernise the budget and we do not want to pay any more. That's what we've been saying. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about EMU. Maybe I can start by saying something about that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	If it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	Sure. It also helps to answer the questions, because something very essential is going on here. In the banking union, we have said at some point with each other: you need to move towards a European deposit guarantee scheme, but first you need to make sure that risks are reduced. The Netherlands and other countries have always said that there must be a proper weighting of government bonds. So: if that, then the other. What is now at risk in Europe is that there is a kind of logic in many countries and it is said: that is nice, that is 'if, then' in the banking union, and that should actually apply to the whole of EMU. So if a number of requirements are met at some point in EMU, those countries say, then it is also obvious that there will be more opportunities to support countries in difficulty. I want to get rid of that. I will put that forward on Friday, supported by the Chamber, I see. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, the position is that there is another agreement under the euro, namely that we would all do our best to generate more prosperity, collectively, by putting our public finances in order and by reforming them. Then it gets interesting. If you do that, it will not only increase the collective prosperity in Europe, because that means that countries can export more to each other, that more money can be earned and that there will be more jobs. The beauty is that it also leads to the ability to absorb shocks, for example through the Netherlands. If there is a shock on our economy and if it is a shock that does not take place widely in Europe, but very specifically in the Netherlands, the chance is not as great for an open economy as ours that we are going to get a unique shock, but if it does happen, then the Netherlands can now, because we are below 60% of public debt and our public finances are now in the plus, without too much difficulty, lend 10%, 20% of our national income to cope with that shock. Some argue for a shock absorption fund. I am also very much in favour of a shock absorption fund, but at national level. I am therefore in favour of 19 shock absorption funds in all Member States. This can only be done if the Member States reform and have public finances in order. So that raises the question of what to do to encourage countries within EMU to make the most of that commitment from 1991, when we started shaping the whole project institutionally and since 2002 also in the wallet. The Netherlands has made a number of proposals for this. I will not repeat them all, because they have already been briefly mentioned, but it was, among other things, the SDRM and the linking of cohesion and structural funds to compliance with country-specific recommendations, i.e. the actual implementation of reforms. If you do that kind of reform, you can certainly succeed in eventually encouraging countries that are not yet sufficiently reformed to do so more. I believe that the debate should focus on this: going back to the original promise of the euro and how we can achieve it. Now the idea is emerging that if a few conditions are met it should be possible to allow more transfers to countries that need them. No, let's put countries that need it in a position that they don't need it anymore. What's it gonna take? Reforming and putting public finances in order. This is something that Europe can collectively stimulate and the Netherlands has put forward proposals for it. I will bring that up on Friday morning. Then it is obvious that there will be some kind of task for the Finance Ministers to study this further. That should come back in July. The President of the European Council, and thus the President of the Eurozone Summit, then believes that it will probably be possible in June next year to take steps with regard to EDIS, that European deposit guarantee scheme and possibly also with regard to how that ESM could be used further. How could you handle that ESM in a smarter way? On the first point, I have already said that the Netherlands must actually reduce the risks of the NPLs, the non-performance loans. I also think that we should have made some really good agreements on the weighing of government bonds. The bank union roadmap says that an EDES can be created at some point. The force field here is favourable in the sense that many countries find it. The second point is the conversion of the ESM. We have to be careful with that. The government has proposed to convert the ESM into a monetary fund that not only manages the money, but also runs the programmes. Very good, because then you'll get rid of that crazy split we have now and that complicated troika. There are also countries that say: no, that fund needs to do more. That's actually a very nice one and a sweetest okaykasion: make sure you shape such a buffer, for example for countries that are in trouble. That is precisely what we are opposed to, because of the reason I just mentioned. We believe that the countries themselves should do their best to get there. In Europe, this is completely apart, so I think Tusk, the President of the Eurozone Summit, is right to note that if we can reach agreement on something in June, then we will have to move on to the next steps for the ESM and what is really needed in terms of road map to get closer to such a deposit guarantee scheme. In the coming month, the Netherlands will try, in particular, to reverse the narrative from some sort of automation in transferring funds in Europe to a situation where we are actually encouraging countries to do what is necessary. I would like to make this as an introductory remark. I think I have answered a lot of questions with that, but it also shows where we stand in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	I wholeheartedly support the steps and conditions outlined by the Prime Minister. This is, of course, a crucial issue. Can I remind the Prime Minister that, as the Netherlands, we want national budgets and banks to be in Europe-wide order before we take further steps on the integration of financial instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm going one step further. We really want to get rid of the logic of adding all kinds of financial instruments. We say: if you do the first, you don't need the second. You don't need a shock absorption fund, because then the national economies will be able to absorb shocks. Mr Buma outlined it as well. If a country with a 97% State debt, such as France, or a country with a 132% State debt, such as Italy, is shocked... Wow! So we need to encourage those countries to reduce their public debt, to reform and to get their finances in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	So I hear a "yes" to my question as to whether that diligence is in any way present. We all hope, of course, that these shocks do not need to be absorbed in the same way as they are at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	It may be that I misunderstand Mr Bruins, but I was equally afraid that he also threatened to join in that narrative of 'if you did the first thing, you can do second'. I do know him well and I see him nodding comfortably now too, and he agrees with me that the first is necessary. If you do the first thing, you would basically not need large shock absorption funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	Exactly, but we shouldn't do the second without the first being in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	No. In fact, I would try to avoid the second, by going back to that basic promise. There is now a narrative in Europe that says: well, you might be able to do the second if you meet a few conditions. I just think that if you do the first good, you don't need the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	It's even stronger. In Europe they say: "Shall we start with the second step by step? Then let's walk that step by step parallel to the first." That is what is happening now with EDES. They say, "Let's introduce that phasedly. Then we'll take those risks off the banks. Then we build EDES in parallel." My question to the Minister is: what does "roads of government bonds" mean? Is that a condition for this Prime Minister to agree to EDES? Do they indeed have to be risk-weighted? Should the non-performance loans, worth around 1,000 billion, be eliminated on the budgets of the various banks? Is that a tough condition, or is it another way to bargain with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	Well, that's another negative conclusion, but I want to keep it positive. There's a road map. In that roadmap, the eurogroup has more precisely agreed, according to the lines as Mr Van Dijck sketches, what is needed here before you can do this. You will notice that there is a lot of political pressure from a number of angles to put it a little bit more together. In addition, countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and fortunately other countries are keeping a close eye on these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	As I said in the first term, the condition is that the banks are healthy. Only, that's a snapshot. In addition, health has been tested, but afterward the banks turned out to be covered with bad loans. How relative is the condition that banks should be healthy before we can agree to EDIS? The Prime Minister must say that the government bonds must be risk-weighted and the non-performance loans must be zero or amount or something like that before we talk at all. Because now it's happening in front of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	This is the road map like it is. At least that road map is based on the non-performance loan. The banks must become far-reachingly healthy. What the Netherlands also considers important, together with a number of other countries, is that, apart from the NPL issue, the weighting of government bonds is also taking place. We now assume that government bonds are equally at risk everywhere, but that is obviously not true. If a country has very large debts, government bonds are at greater risk than countries that do not. We believe that one way or another you will have to weigh that in order to ensure that a European deposit guarantee scheme does not result in countries that are healthy in this respect having to pay for countries that are not. I think Mr Van Dijck and I are pulling on the same side of the rope here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	I must admit that I am concerned about the document presented by the Commission on 6 December. That is what I said in my speech. The Prime Minister calls it a wrong narrative. Almost there. If you read the piece, I can find very little that I would say is something that the Netherlands would like to agree to. That makes it even more important what exactly are the frameworks with which the cabinet deals with these talks. I realize there's a vision coming up right now, but we're gonna have to start these conversations later. Is there going to be a time when the Chamber should really be able to say "it is and still isn't"? It is very soon about Dutch money, which, for example, with an EMF, if it were to continue, would no longer be our money but would go into the European pot to move on. I don't see anything in that. My question is how the Prime Minister is going to take these steps, so that we have the frameworks clear quickly, with the cabinet looking at them and we as a Chamber can say in good time that it really cannot go on. I do not see the Prime Minister's clamp in that it is not a question of negotiating in Brussels, but there is little that we, as the Netherlands, can say: that is nice, that is what we put in the pot. There is a great deal going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	Our proposals are in the pot, but they do not immediately resonate with, for example, all the countries in the south. Such a sovereign design restructuring mechanism is not immediately approached with great enthusiasm. That makes sense, as we are not enthusiastic about other plans. A few things. I therefore believe that we should first start from what we think is necessary as a final objective of the policy and then put the instruments under it. This means that we want to co-operate even more, the Netherlands has put forward a proposal on the extension to an EMF. We wouldn't feel anything if we didn't have a right of veto in such an EMF. This is the case now in extreme situations, but in normal situations it is simply intergovernmental and all countries have the right of veto. We want to keep it that way. We have also said very loudly that we think that the idea from the Commission to bring the Commissioner for Monetary Union together with the President of the Eurogroup is a bad thing, because it is important to separate it institutionally. That's the Mogherini Route, the high-level sense of representation. It may be useful there, but we find it unwise here. There must be a countervailing power, a counterweight, from the euro group vis-à-vis the Commission and vice versa, but above all from the euro group vis-à-vis the Commission. You can see this when you see how modestly the SGP is currently being observed and how cautious the Commission is with countries that do not comply with the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact. We are therefore not satisfied with this proposal. We also don't feel anything for such a big shock absorption fund that has to absorb asymmetric shocks, with a size that scares the hell out of you. We want to ensure that this is no longer necessary at all, because you must have an alternative. That alternative must then be: how do we encourage countries to be able to cope with these major shocks themselves? Now it is true that a country that gets into trouble can still knock on the door of the ESM. That's the existing system, but preferably you wouldn't even find that route necessary anymore. You don't want to close that route, but you want to prevent it by encouraging countries to do the same good things. So these are a number of things that we have said we are simply not enthusiastic about, but I think it is particularly important that we show in this discussion what we do want and how we can influence the discussion positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you for this clear reply from the Prime Minister to Mr Buma. The question I have is whether the Commission's scenario, with all the proposals made last week, 6 December, Mr Buma pointed out that the Commission is not in the process of getting the euro group in place, inter alia, by creating a kind of Mogherini for finance, but also by replacing that intergovernmental with a European roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yeah, they'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	They want to, but how is it that people in Europe think that the northern countries, especially the Netherlands, can simply be pushed? I'm very worried about that. So they're gonna try to get the best of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	I wouldn't be too worried about that. Of course, we have to do that smartly, because as the Netherlands, of course, you want to avoid being alone and having to use a veto; preferably not, if you don't have to. So you're obviously trying to build coalitions on these points, but look at, for example, the ideas that were there a while ago about a euro area budget and Member State contracts; that was in 2013. Then we were also pressed: "this is inevitable; the Germans, the French and everyone want this." That didn't happen. In the end, it is very important that we say what we want. The narrative, the story line, is that you can defend the euro and such a currency union in a European Union with considerable differences only if all countries make their contributions and all do what is necessary in their homes. Then we'll be able to maintain the street together. We all do, but we all have to support our cottage ourselves. What you can't do is ring the doorbell to the neighbors and tell them to paint your house. You really should do that yourself. You must have saved up for that; you must have made a pot for that, et cetera. I think the disadvantage of some of the proposals that are now before us is that they assume too much that the street should then collectively take care of the house where there is no painting. Then you have to say, "How can I encourage this resident to do that?" The Netherlands has put forward a number of suggestions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	What worries me is what the Prime Minister thinks about this: on Friday morning there will be a meeting of all 27 countries, not just the euro countries, on the euro dossier. Well, that's kind of weird in itself, of course. Moreover, as I have just said, the Commission is trying to hijack the eurogroup in Europe to bring it under a kind of financial Mogherini and develop everything from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	I just told you, we're not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	...from an ESM to an EMF, 500 billion and so on. That is a completely different future, which I do not think we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	No, watch out. I fully agree with that first one. I just said it. I also reacted immediately when Juncker made proposals in September to merge the functions of President of the Commission, President of the Council and President of the Eurogroup into one function. The Netherlands doesn't feel like it. Hardly anyone feels like that. The conversion of the European Stability Mechanism into a European Monetary Fund, on the one hand, is sensible, on the other hand, provided that it remains intergovernmental, provided that we have the right of veto and that we also give the EMF the opportunity to run programmes. Only then you will have to be careful what other countries want to do. You have to be careful with that. In the end, the euro has brought much to the Netherlands. I have sometimes put down the position that has not yet been crediblely refuted; I would like to be convinced that, if we had the guilder, we would have had enormous problems and had been speculated if we had the guilder, because of the big banking crisis in 2008. So the euro has already brought us something in this crisis, namely stability. At present, the Netherlands has one of the fastest growing economies in Europe and the western world. This is partly because of the euro and partly because of our trading position. So I think that we are taking part in the question of how to improve the functioning of a non-perfect euro area. We must also put forward our own proposals. What you just need to avoid is that countries that have not reformed and have not put public finances in order can rely on the collective. I don't want to. Because when that happens, you lose your support, with me and with a lot of people in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now that I've said that, I've answered a lot of questions. Maybe this is what we're gonna do after all. There is often talk of the Franco-German axis. He'll be either a problem or no problem. Honestly, I think it's both: it's both a problem and not a problem. It is a problem if we do not have our own ideas and the Franco-German axis is making great progress. It's also a problem if there isn't one. We also know that a lot of things in Europe go very slowly when the two largest Member States go all the way down the street with each other. We must therefore ensure that we always have a good influence on this. Of the 28 Member States, the Netherlands currently has the sixth economy, and the fifth in the euro area. So we really do have a role to play. After us, nothing comes before the next country. So we just have to maintain our own relationships with the French, the Germans and others to make sure that sound is heard properly. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna take a quick look through my set, because we've actually been through all this. I would like to comment on a question by Mr Bruins on the European Central Bank's buying-in policy. First of all, I have to say here that I always start by saying that the ECB is independent. But Mr Bruins knows that about me. Let us also be pleased that the ECB is independent. So let us try to make as little political statements as possible on monetary policy. I can say that the phasing-out of the buy-back programme can in theory lead to an increase in interest rates in Europe. It could be. We have to deal with that soberly. The effects of not extending the balance sheet of the United States central bank have been limited, at least in the US itself. Also, the beginning of the balance sheet discount at the beginning of this year has not led to major shocks. It is, of course, once again the case that self-regulation at national level can help to limit the effects as much as possible. However, in Mr Bruins' question I do hear the concerns about the buy-back programme. They have also been expressed by other parties. I understand these concerns; I've always said so. But I choose to limit the public comment. Mr Azarkan asks me what I am going to do to restore confidence. This is what I would like to say to him. I've been looking for a good translation of "underpromise and overdeliver." That is the way the Netherlands is trying to stand in this debate. Then the best translation is: not words, but deeds. Mr Azarkan must do so for all kinds of reasons. A few questions have also been asked about the political situation in Germany. I do not want to comment on that as a kind of Clavan, because in the end we have our hands full with the Dutch political debate. In my view, these were the questions about the euro area, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	A final interruption by Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	Did I just hear the Prime Minister refer to the United States when it comes to phasing out the buy-back programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	What I am describing is that the United States has started taping and that its effects on interest rates are still to be seen at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	But those are the United States. Here, of course, we are dealing with Italy, which has done nothing and has a huge debt of 2,500 billion, 132% of GDP. If the ECB stops buying Italian debt, what will happen to the interest rate in Italy, according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	That really depends on more things. This really depends on the overall state of the economy, the European economy. The European Central Bank has, of course, begun to restrict the buying-in programme. That has not yet led to major shocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	I can tell you that what is going to happen there is Greece to power 10. Then we'll have the next question. This is untenable. Then the ESM must act, or the ECB must forgive the debt. That debt must go to a sustainable level. 132% is not sustainable. It has to go to 60%, so: boys, all right, we're taking over $1,250 billion from that Italian debt. That's what's about to happen. You should not be naive about it and refer to the United States, because we are in a European Union with some very rotten apples. You need to be prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr President, I will leave this for Mr Van Dijck, because the comparison between Italy and Greece is very far-reaching. I share his concern about the level of Italian public debt. The Italian Government itself shares them. But the Italian economy and its resilience are really, fortunately, in no relation to Greece five years ago. The Commission is very positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	The main thrust of the Prime Minister's speech is very clear. It's about getting your own buffers, getting your own house in order, painting your own cottage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	Get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's Rotterdams.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	Get out of here! Get out of This is all clear, but we still have 28 countries in a European Union, where one country's policies have a direct impact on the ability of another to conduct policies. I have mentioned two examples. I'd still like to present them to the Prime Minister. Trade policy and balance of payments have all kinds of influences on what other countries have to offer. There is also tax policy. If we lower taxes, we force other countries, as it were, to do the same, and so on. There is therefore a interdependence between them. How does it relate to the story, to the Dutch commitment that the Prime Minister is going to put forward Thursday and Friday, that you first have to put your own house in order and that then it is no longer necessary, if we are lucky, that we do something for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	Then I'll come back to a country like Italy, with a high level of public debt. If that Italian sovereign debt had not been so high, it would have been able to absorb shocks. What's it gonna take to lower that government debt? Boosting economic growth and reducing public expenditure. How could you drive economic growth? By implementing necessary reforms. In Italy, of course, there has been a long discussion about the right of dismissal and the introduction of the services market. There are still a lot of protected professions in Italy. These are all obstacles to economic growth. These are all things that you can just do nationally, as we have done in the Netherlands in recent years, partly with the support of GroenLinks. The important thing is that you manage things neatly, in a decent way, while maintaining your social model, precisely to keep that social model financially viable in the future. This allows you to have both a nice social security system, which works as activating as possible, and economic growth. Mr Van Ojik, of course, points out that this also has indirect effects, for example on your competitive position. This competitive position can once again translate into a possible surplus of payments on the trade balance. I have never been ashamed that the Netherlands does. This also proves that we are a competitive economy. Then other economies also need to become more competitive. Then we will have a less large surplus on the balance of payments. This is still in our interest, because if Italy becomes more competitive, we can export more to it and we can also import more from Italy, because the pricing of products becomes more attractive. It all has advantages. So I'm not so afraid of it. Then about the race to the bottom, because he's behind the questions about taxes. I'm against that. I do think it is important that a country such as the Netherlands, a small economy with major economic interests, should continue to be able to apply tax competition to our VPB tariffs, for example. We are. Big countries do it, too. If France goes to 25% and we do not go down too, it is true that France, which has a much larger own economy and marketing area, would have a huge competitive advantage over the Netherlands. That's gonna cost jobs here, so you're gonna have to do something here, too. That's not a race to the bottom. That's the sensible tuning of your rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	It's about whether the Prime Minister's story is consistent. It is not a question of whether he is ashamed of the fact that we have a surplus in the balance of payments. The divergence in the European Union is increasing. That should be a concern for all of us. Strong countries are getting stronger and weak countries are getting weaker, to put it simply. That is a potential bomb under the European Union and it also causes and explains the ongoing discussions about transfers, buffers, risk spreading and so on. If you don't want it, the Prime Minister has made it very clear that he doesn't want it to have consequences for your own policy, and for how you deal with your tax policy and trade policy. That's a realization that I don't belong back to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	Because I don't think I agree. We could have taken certain measures here that would have killed ourselves. Suppose we had stripped our social security and made extreme savings on health care, which, by the way, has only gone through more money. So let's say that we would have done that and that we could have produced cheaper and had too large a trade surplus. Then I understand Mr Van Ojik's point. I think the Netherlands has always done it in balance. We have the richest social security system after Sweden. We have the best health system in Europe, and perhaps the world as a whole; at least we are in the top three, top four. At the same time, we are very competitive and we can export our stuff well abroad. This is a matter of hard work, reform and putting public finances in order. I really recommend that recipe to all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	What the Netherlands can do is not everyone can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	Why not? Why wouldn't Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	Because it is simply the case that if one country benefits from a large surplus, at the expense of another country in Europe with which it trades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	But can Italy, Mr Van Ojik, reform his labour market? Surely it is possible to open up the 2,500 protected professions a little, so that there will be a little more economic growth? But there are great social and political interests to not do so. I just don't feel like giving money to Italy because it's so hard to reform there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	Sure, and that's not what I mean at all. Of course, there are things that any country can do very well on its own. My point is that the intertwinedness in the European Union is increasing by the day, so to speak. This means that policies we take in the Netherlands have an impact on often weaker economies in southern Europe. If you don't want transfers and joint buffers and if you think everyone should put their own house in order and paint neatly in the street, then that also has consequences for your own policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, too, sure, always. At the same time, the deficit of France, for example, is still around 3% and has a public debt of around 100%, but I greatly appreciate President Emmanuel Macron's commitment to strengthening Europe in many areas. I also agree with him on many points, such as the external border, migration and defence cooperation. On all these points, we support the French. I also agree with him that the euro area needs to be strengthened. I am not immediately enthusiastic about all of his proposals. We have talked about this gradually today. He has very handsome, while we were still working on the formation, reformed his entire labour market. But, yes, the proof in the French pudding will really be in reducing the deficit and public debt, and in being able to boost economic growth further. That will give the credibility to make progress in this discourse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Prime Minister would prefer not to respond politically to the ECB's buy-back programme in order not to go into the area of the independent ECB. Does he agree with me that this massive buy-back programme has actually brought the ECB into the field of politics, especially in view of the intertwined nature of sovereign debt and banks and the fact that such a buy-back programme in fact makes countries lazy to start reform? In that case, the ECB is also, in a way, politically involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	That's kind of the chicken egg story. In 2012, Mario Draghi said: if there is not enough from the countries, I have to do something. Theoretically, I do not want to make a political statement about it. It is conceivable that Mr Bruins has a point here. At the same time, I am not going to turn that into a political statement, because I really think that I should stay away from a political assessment of ECB policy. That is because, as a newspaper reader, I remember how the ECB was created and what concern we had at that time that France, in particular, in the 1990s, would gain control over monetary policy in Europe, with the Netherlands and Germany stressing that it should be independent. If we are not to be able to follow the policy theoretically in every respect now, we must be careful to make political statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	I thank the Prime Minister for this theoretical answer. Would he be prepared, as the government's attitude, to indicate at the forthcoming summit that the Netherlands is in favour of a narrow set of tasks for the ECB which, theoretically, may be narrower than the current set of tasks used in Frankfurt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	I agree with the first half of his sentence, because that is a general statement on the policy framework within which the ECB operates, namely that they are dealing with monetary policy and that political decision-making is up to the Member States. Therefore, I do not want to honour the second half of his sentence, but the first half is, but that is more of a statement of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue on behalf of the Netherlands that we advocate a narrow vision of the ECB's task?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yes, but that is a statement of fact, because that is actually what the Netherlands considered to be the task of the ECB from the outset, without commenting on the current exercise of the ECB's task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr President, I have had the two main topics. On migration, Chambers and Cabinets have a violent agreement, namely that it is important that solidarity includes the fulfilment of their obligations, including in the future. On the question that Mr Tusk asks us whether we can no longer go to a consensual approach in the future, I would like to say that that was very nice, but if all countries do what they have to do. I therefore agree with all the speakers on this point. The situation in Libya has been specifically asked for. There are justified concerns about the terrible conditions of migrants in Libya. I also spoke about this with the chief of government of Libya, Mr Sarraj, at the Côte d'Ivoire summit and, by the way, with the President of Mali the day before in Bamako, who, of course, was also very concerned about the images of CNN that are also on display throughout Africa. A common approach is needed. This is also being worked on in Africa. It consists of three elements. Firstly, African countries of origin are moving faster to issue travel documents to anyone who wants to return home. Secondly, the Libyan authorities are now providing access for the IOM to detention centres. Thirdly, the IOM is also building small camps for between 25 and 50 people. That also costs money, and we are also making money available for that. This is also to support voluntary return through IOM programmes and to help migrants build a new life. Then about the Coast Guard. It is also important to note that the European Union does not return refugees to Libya. We support the Coast Guard in carrying out their legal duties. One of the coastguard's tasks is to save people and then bring them ashore in Libya, and they do so in Libya. In this sense, you also see the importance of capacity building. Of course, I very much agree with Amnesty that we must work to combat the terrible conditions in detention centres. We've been doing that for a long time, as good and as angry as it gets. There is a motion by Mr Van Ojik, which he might want to put to the vote; I can see that in his face. I am going to ask him, perhaps I should do so in the second term, but perhaps I can take a shot at him in order to hold that motion for a moment, because that gives Mark Harbers, the Secretary of State in this area, the chance to have his talk with Amnesty. He'll have it on Monday. Then he will discuss the situation with Amnesty International in detail. He will inform the Chamber in writing about the support to the Coast Guard before Christmas. Maybe I can leave that as a suggestion here. However, I have answered the question as to whether Mr Van Ojik is going to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	Since this morning, I think it's only with yes or no. That is not my strong suit, Madam President, but you already knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, I know that side of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	I will certainly hold that motion until the Secretary of State talks with Amnesty. The Amnesty report really contains very hard, precise and shocking figures. Almost 20,000 Libyan migrants have been brought back by the Coast Guard and have been detained in centres where systematic torture is being carried out; I quote more or less literally from that report. In view of the topicality of the Amnesty report, I would say that this is something that the Prime Minister can really raise when he sees his colleagues this week, all of whom are involved or some of whom are involved in supporting the same coastguard. It's fine if the Secretary of State also talks to Amnesty on Monday. My question to the Prime Minister is: are you going to raise this point with your colleagues in Brussels over the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	Well, not especially in the next few days, because I'm already doing that. I therefore agree with Mr Van Ojik. I have spoken about this with many colleagues in Côte d'Ivoire, because there were many European colleagues there. It was also discussed there in a number of bilateral talks, including with the President of Côte d'Ivoire, the President of Mali and Prime Minister Sarraj of Libya. Since the summit, 1,500 migrants have fled Libya and returned to their country of origin. This year 15,000 migrants left Libya, back to their country of origin. That is also my point with the President of Mali. He said, "What a terrible thing." I said yes, but the question is why the people from Mali were there in Libya at all. In some parts of Mali you may be in danger, but in itself Mali is a functioning democracy, with major problems. So when people run, it's for economic reasons. That's what I told him. You can also see that these countries understand that they have a special responsibility to bring their countrymen back. I am not talking about Eritreans who might have the right to asylum, but I am talking about people who really flee for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's the whole oversight we're having these conversations. This lives very widely in Europe. I talked about it in the car with the French president. There is also a joint initiative in the Security Council, in which France, as one of the P5 members, plays a major role in relation to the situation in Libya. The Netherlands will join the Security Council next year as a non-permanent member, so it is really working intensively with countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	Last remark, last interruption as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	If I am right, a look back at the EU-Africa Summit will be on the agenda of the European Council in the coming days. The Prime Minister is saying, and I say with him that the evacuation from Libya is now well under way. That's very good. That is a concrete outcome of the meeting in Côte d'Ivoire. But then you can't imagine the Libyan Coast Guard bringing people back to that hellhole in Libya at the same time, from where we're evacuating people? Surely it makes sense, I would say, that in the next few days, when he sees his colleagues again, the Prime Minister will put that item on the agenda with a great deal of emphasis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	It's on the agenda. Of course, I can also pay attention to this in my speech, but my point was more: we are already doing it. But I am, of course, prepared to mention that again in the debate in the European Council. I need to think about a way to do that has an effect there, because it's complementary to what we're already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	I see Mrs Ploumen wants to interrupt. It will take note of Mr Asscher. I take it there's no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. Closer to home, the situation of refugees in Greece is also very bad. It's been that way for a couple of years. I know that the Prime Minister has also worked to improve this situation. Is that another subject that he would like to raise in his speech, perhaps even in a tête-à-tête with his Greek colleague, precisely because winter is not just on the doorstep but is actually on the agenda and the situation is really dramatic?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	I do not know if this is going to happen in plenary, but it is being discussed regularly in the Greek-Germany-Netherlands triangle. This is where the point arises that we are prepared to do whatever is necessary to help the Greeks. But then they must also want to be helped. There is also the problem that refugees are too often transferred to the Greek mainland, with which they are, in principle, excluded from the functioning of the agreement with Turkey. That also has the risk of a suction effect. Furthermore, there is the fact that too few people's cases are dealt with in the asylum procedure, that there are only a few people so that they can return to Turkey. The bizarre fact is, therefore, that Turkey is keeping to the agreements with the European Union and that on the Greek side there is a lot going on. A great deal of attention is paid to this, precisely because of the misery that is now threatening to occur in the winter months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	Would the Prime Minister be so good as to inform us in the report whether there is any progress in these discussions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	Yes, we shall return to that in the European Council's report. So I'm not entirely sure I'm doing that in plenary. Moreover, there is a chance that the Greek Prime Minister will talk about his talks with the Turkish President. Then that might be the reason to say something about it. If this is not the case, I can indicate in the European Council's report what is happening behind the scenes. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	Yes, Mr President, I would like to turn to the theme of socialism. Maybe I can be brief about that, too? Mr Asscher has said a number of commendable things about this. He talked, among other things, about combating premium hopping, competition at minimum wage and combating cheap labour migration, also in line with his work in a previous period in the field of the Posting of Workers Directive and the principle of equal pay, equal work and equal conditions. That's what we're gonna do. I therefore agree with his comments on this point. This is also a very important part of this commitment to the social pillar for the Netherlands, because this is something where you can work together. We do not want to talk about the level of benefits and that sort of thing, which should simply remain with the Member States, but, of course, the social pillar has great added value in terms of combating these abuses. This also includes the enforcement of social rules. We are working together with a number of countries, the French, the Norwegians and others, to get to the point of consuming all that good work. After all, you shouldn't just talk about it. However, perhaps I could say briefly that I agreed with Mr Asscher's speech on this point. Mr Bishop asked whether it would continue to be done within the existing division of powers. Yes, all this must be done within the existing division of powers. I think that's what's happening. We'll keep an eye on that. But that whole point of free movement of workers and how it relates to the principle of equal pay in equal conditions is certainly in this context. This is without prejudice to the allocation of powers. Finally, the application of the rules on the posting of international drivers. There must be separate rules for this. We're tough on that. As you know, this has so far been outside the terms of the directive. It is important, however, that it is eventually also haunted. For the sake of clarity, I do not have much to add, or really nothing at all! President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I think there is also broad consensus in the Chamber that this is an unwise and counterproductive action by the Americans. A question has been asked about PESCO: is that a transfer of sovereignty? No, it's not. I can tell a whole story about that, but maybe I can leave it at that. Is there any willingness to argue against Muslim discrimination at the forthcoming summit? We are tackling Muslim discrimination widely. We are tackling discrimination widely at all, for all people and groups, for Muslims but also for others. So we are tackling discrimination widely, with different measures. It is above all about what is happening in the Member States. I would also like to draw attention to the respect for fundamental rights and the plea that our Minister for Justice and Security made last week in the JHA Council for the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights. In view of the Council's agenda, there is no need to raise this now. Mr Mulder had a question on European identity. That Commission communication contributed to the informal lunch meeting at the Gothenburg Summit on 17 November, as initiated by the President of the European Council. The cabinet sees the European Union as a value community. I've said it many times. Why Europe? For the sake of security and trade, but we are also a value community. There is great cultural diversity. Nor can it be caught in a single identity. You can all have your identity, but the underlying values of equality, of men and women, gay and straight, white and black, the free democratic rule of law, freedom of religion and freedom of expression are not negotiable in our eyes. That is something that also connects the countries of Europe. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions with this, unless someone jumps up mad right now. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	If not all the questions had been answered, Members of Parliament would have walked to the interrupting microphone, as Mr Bishop is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	I had taken the opportunity to outline some of the outlines of a redesign of the EU. I would like the Prime Minister's reflections on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	So it's about reflections. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	I would have liked to have done so in my introduction to Brexit and EMU. If I understand Mr Bishop correctly, he says: if you look at it pragmatically, there is no risk that it will lead, one step at a time, to a superstate in Europe. There is, of course, a risk. That is why we must always define very precisely why the European Union is here. This cabinet considers the European Union and its membership to be necessary for three reasons. First of all, we live in an unstable, unsafe world. There is a great ring of instability around Europe. Something's going on in the world. The embedding in the European Union and the fact that we work together also offer security. This applies to large Member States and small Member States. Secondly, an open trading economy has a major interest in free open trade relations with other countries. This concerns services, products and, as far as we are concerned, the digital single market. It offers enormous opportunities for the Netherlands and for other countries as well. It makes the cake bigger. Then you're away from the discussion about redistributing the cake. The third point is the community of value. Perhaps I can also mention the aspect of migration and the common management of the external borders. We must therefore check every time whether the steps taken on the basis of the criteria on which we are members of the European Union are sensible. You can make that special. We have done so in detail today on the issue of the euro and EMU. The question was how to proceed in the future. There, too, there are a number of preconditions that you say should ultimately lead to a higher level of prosperity. So I understand the care in my own right. I often notice that we have to be careful not to see the Netherlands as a kind of calimero, which is trying to prevent worse. It won't work. Then we put a cap on our heads and we say, "They're big and I'm small." It's not like that. The Netherlands is the fifth and sixth Member States of the European Union. We're one of the founders. We can really influence internal discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	Perhaps this is a response to Mr Bishop's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	Okay, thank you. Then I'll look around and see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. We shall now proceed to the second term of office and I shall give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66 as the first speaker. I understand you don't want to make a lot of motions. Then you'll keep it short, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you for that advice, Mr. Chairman. You might be able to get me on my way again. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. I have a few things very briefly. I welcome the way in which he has responded to the questions about the actual content of the efficient progress on the three parts. In doing so, he has made the position of the citizens a little more concrete. There will be a number of things going on and also issues arising from practice, but we will see that. But the attitude to ensure that citizens retain these rights as much as possible is clear. The limit and the complex combination of promises to be fulfilled by the UK are indeed very curious, but we shall see. That pressure is not with us, so it seems to me that we should not say much more about it here than that. What he said about the amount I found a very good way of thinking: let the objective parts of that amount be hardened instead of mentioning the amount all the time. Make sure the components are identified by the other negotiating partner. I shall then table a motion in between, because otherwise I will come to the time, with regard to the situation in Libya. Following the discussion, I have written the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Amnesty International recommends the establishment of independent human rights monitoring in a report on the abuse of migrants in detention centres in Libya;]] [[whereas an EU monitoring mechanism for the Libyan Coast Guard has already been established this summer but is not yet functioning satisfactorily;]] [[Calls on the Government at the European Council to make every effort to ensure that the work of the Libyan Coast Guard is effectively monitored independently by the EU monitoring mechanism so that these human rights violations can be brought to an end;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-1265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	I am tabling this motion because it is important that there is monitoring of human rights and that there is a mechanism. This is now being left to the Libyans, while we believe that it should be the EU mechanism that responds to this. So it's a way of trying to improve the situation there. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Finally, a few brief things. Thank you also for the Prime Minister's comment on the way in which financial stability and commitment to reform is being looked at. There is sometimes cynicism about the ability of countries to strengthen their economies. It's always said "we don't make it and we just keep transferring money to the south," but there are also successes. I think, for example, that Portugal is really a country that has shown that putting the economy in order is best possible, even for a small country that has been put away for years as a non-opportune country. So let's not pretend that's bullshit. It's possible. Finally, thank you for the Prime Minister's response to my question on how Tusk proposes to release the principle of solidarity on migration policy. When I hear what the Prime Minister has said, I will summarize it as: we simply must not do that, and that is absolutely not going to happen. I am pleased with that, and that also fits well within the coalition agreement. And with that coalition agreement, D66 has a positive feeling. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. See you next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you. Very positive. Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for what I said in my interruption just now about the clear way in which he presented the Dutch position on the future monetary policy of the European Union this afternoon. I have already said that I think that there is still room for improvement and I have tried to discuss the relationship between monetary policy in a more narrow sense and the way in which it, for each country individually, is ultimately linked to the policies that are being pursued in other countries. I believe that this cohesion must also be taken into account in a debate and debate on the future of the European Union. I am sure we will be able to speak to that later. The Prime Minister has promised to address the situation in Libya and in particular the role of the Libyan Coast Guard at the European Summit in the coming days. That was high time because, as I said, we cannot, of course, support a coastguard that brings people back to circumstances where, at least according to Amnesty, and the Minister has not contradicted this, there is systematic torture. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister, of course afterwards, how this discussion went. I would like to leave it at that, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you. You've been talking about a motion you've held up before. He's gonna stay in custody, too, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	Yeah, I actually just said that when I was interrupting. I've filed a motion. I will wait for the Secretary of State's conversation with Amnesty and then look forward to the letter he has promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Yes. Thank you. I just wanted to check that out. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, who will replace Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Lodewijk Asscher was present in the first term, but he is now at the address of his sister. She becomes a professor, with which it is of course a special day for the Asscher family. It is also good news for the Netherlands because there are far too few female professors. I'd like to table two motions. I hear colleagues in the Chamber agree with that and I hope that they will continue to draw attention to this in the Education budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that unfair competition between workers in the EU should stop;]] [[noting that the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive has taken an important step but that the fight against social dumping through premiums has not yet been won;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the European Coalition against social dumping, to discuss with them as soon as possible how to combat premium shopping, and to report to the Court on progress prior to the next European Summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr. Chairman. My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good education, good care and good social security require everyone to pay a decent tax;]] [[noting that multinational companies and workers are increasingly contributing to our collective provision;]] [[noting that the real negotiations on the Brexit are only now beginning;]] [[calls on the government to work internationally to prevent a race to the bottom in corporate tax rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	Finally. I agree with what Mr Van Ojik said about the possible human rights violations by the Libyan Coast Guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	Madam President. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers. I had put two issues first: the Brexit and the discussion on EMU. As far as the Brexit is concerned, I think the big problem at the moment is: what are we doing with the Irish border? That has also been extensively changed. That problem is more than just Ireland, Northern Ireland. Some in this Chamber think the Brexit is always beneficial, but certainly in this scenario there are many possibilities that it will not be beneficial. I think it is important for the House to take a decision on this, and that is why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom that there will be no hard physical border between Ireland and Northern Ireland for the time being;]] [[whereas the British Government has ensured that there will be no obstacles between Northern Ireland and Great Britain;]] [[Whereas this may distinguish between trade and traffic via the Irish border to the UK and from the rest of Europe to the UK;]] [[Whereas it remains unclear how this agreement relates to free movement, the internal market and the protection of external borders;]] [[calls on the cabinet to ensure that, in the final agreement, the Netherlands and the other European countries are not penalised by a specific Irish regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Bruins, Bishop and Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	We have also talked extensively about EMU. I have the Commission's paper of 6 December with me here. We shall come back to that, says the Prime Minister. I understand that very well. And he indicated a number of frameworks that are incredibly important. The Prime Minister says that countries that do not reform cannot call on the collective either. I think that is very important and I keep it at the forefront, and I think that should also be the core. I'm worried about that. We're gonna see how we're gonna do that. Italy has been mentioned here several times. That country owes 132%. But the first time that the current banking system entered into force and thus did not have to be resolved by the State, compensation was immediately given and the government was immediately given room to do so. Hop, there went the sovereign debt. That's where I care. The same applies to France. France's economy is doing well, but there is a deficit of 3%. We are going to talk about it in detail and I found it clear what the Prime Minister said about it. But he may be convinced that the CDA will follow him very closely in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. "One's own house in order." Of course that sounds very nice, but it is also a bit naive and a bit of an ideal image. In the meantime, we have 500 billion in support programmes at these different houses, especially in the south. And there are just countries that don't want their house in order and can keep their house in order. They are democracies. The demos, the people decide. Italy does not reform, cut back or reduce the debt. And why would they go there? The ECB is already buying up the sovereign debt, which means that interest rates are relatively low. After all, if things go wrong, the billions in the emergency funds will be ready. Why would I paint my own house if I could let the neighbor do that? Because if he doesn't, his house is gonna be worth less and that neighbor has a problem. That reminds me of the following. If I owe €1,000 to the bank I have a problem, but I have a debt of a few million to the bank, then the bank has a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	You want to make three more motions, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	And so it is in the European Union. That's why I have a few motions to help the Prime Minister with his choices. For as far as we are concerned, he leaves the matter too much in the middle and leaves the door too much open. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable for Dutch banks to guarantee the deposits of savers in other Member States;]] [[Whereas there will always be differences in the degree to which banks are healthy;]] [[Whereas losses from Dutch banks are directly charged to Dutch account holders;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a European Deposit Guarantee Scheme (EDIS),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Commission is drawing up proposals for taxation at European level, such as the CCCTB, the FTT and the equalisation tax;]] [[Whereas the tax domain is and should remain a national matter;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to European taxes in any form whatsoever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1269]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mind if I file my last motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	Yeah, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. In any case, I am so pleased with the answers on Brexit and PESCO. EMU will continue to be the subject of frequent and much discussion. We'll follow that very closely. The Prime Minister spoke a little lightly about political legitimacy. A little more will have to be done there than we will have to overperform and promise as little as possible. 'No words but deeds' was the summary, but I think the Prime Minister said that we should not make too much promises and do a great deal. But in English. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first concerns the abolition of the redistribution system for refugees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use at European level the commitment that the abolition of a compulsory redistribution system for refugees is unacceptable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to seek, at the forthcoming European Council, a supported declaration by European Heads of State or Government on the decision of the United States Government to move its embassy to Jerusalem, which, in agreement with the United States Government, states that this decision is extremely unwise and highly counterproductive in the context of the peace process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	Then it's closing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that European research carried out by the Fundamental Rights Agency shows that experienced Muslim discrimination has increased in Europe;]] [[considers that discrimination is fundamentally contrary to the fundamental principles of the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, a European alliance against Muslim discrimination and to endorse, at European level, the fight against Muslim discrimination with a shared commitment and a shared package of measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We had an exchange of views on Brexit and the future of the euro area. The Christian Union supports the Prime Minister's commitment to the summit to come. It is also good that the Prime Minister confirmed that the first step is and remains that we must first get national budgets and banks in order. And when you get that in order, you don't actually need common absorption funds anymore. It is also a good thing that the Prime Minister and I, although theoretically, were able to discuss the role of the ECB. I would like to add that the Council of State recently noted in its report 'the state of the euro' that, if supervision of banks is properly regulated, the ECB could once again concentrate on its main task of monetary policy. It also states that decisions on the use of emergency funds to Member States in difficulty can to some extent be depoliticised. I would like a brief response from the Prime Minister to these two statements. Because the Council of State adds that in that case the role of the ECB may be reduced. Finally, I would like to remind you of the fact that during the General Financial Reviews I called upon the Minister of Finance to act as a good Viceroy Joseph as keeper of our treasury. A Joseph economy is an economy where, when it is well done, we have enough grain in our grain sheds so that when things get worse, the bottom of the grain barns, the threshing floor, is not so quickly in sight. What is true of the national budget is also true of the responsibility we feel for each other as Europeans. Let us therefore call for a broader Joseph economy in Europe. The question remains, of course, who, if I compare our Minister of Finance with Vice-President Joseph, should I compare the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive and clear answer, including to questions on our part. In the light of his answer, I have another specific question on defence. The UK's exit also has implications for defence. Given the great importance of the defence effort from the United Kingdom within Europe, does he see a role for himself in bringing that effort of the United Kingdom somewhat into the relationship with the future of Europe? I do not want to have Clavan views on what is going to happen in Germany today in the forthcoming coalition negotiations, but let us not forget that what will happen in Germany in the coming months is, of course, extremely important for the future of Europe, the future of the euro and also for the future of the Netherlands, especially since the United Kingdom is going to leave. My question is then what message I do not know if the Prime Minister would like to say anything about it, but I am asking the question 'Germany' in the coming year, even in the direction of June next year when we are talking about EMU, to France. That's essential. What message has been sent to France in relation to the euro, the European Union, the European Council and the European Commission? What will be the relationship of strength between Germany and France? Mr Buma also pointed out that France is a dominant factor, more than we may be aware of. With the shadow of German history, I have the question as to whether that can mean that Germany's counterpower will become weaker in the more dominant role that France will have. I will continue to say, with the Prime Minister and the coalition agreement, that France will have to go well below that 3% and will have to go well below 60%, otherwise their house will not be in order and the Netherlands will not be able to take any further steps. Finally, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the century France and Germany, for various reasons, both came out well out of the 3% standard. We hated that. We felt that this was a mandatory rule after Maastricht. If one of them, whoever takes the initiative, says, "We'll put a line through it for a while, we'll do it and we'll check it out." I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. Mr Anne Mulder gave up the floor. Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Again, it was a pleasure to hear it. It has kept me informed that there is an urgent need for us, as a Chamber, to have a thorough exchange of views on how we see the future of Europe. That still floats a little bit, a little unintended. Our group hopes that you will soon be of service by handing you an own-initiative paper. I have one motion and it is, as it were, a step in that direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, with the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the Netherlands is losing an important partner in the European force field;]] [[Whereas the Brexit seems to shift relations within the European Union in favour of those in favour of further European integration;]] [[calls on the Government to strive for continued cooperation with similar Member States in order to counter the call for further integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	The Prime Minister will undoubtedly hear a form of support for the policy envisaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's what we're gonna hear. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	The international newspapers are full of it: Mark Rutte is the candidate for a top position in the European offices when a new European Commission is in office and when a new President of the European Council is elected. If it is true that, while he is Prime Minister of the Netherlands, he is lobbying behind the scenes for a new job for himself, then we are seriously screwed in the Netherlands. He will not negotiate for our interests at the sharpest of the cuts. Then he'll be sitting there with another hat on. That is why we as a Chamber, or at least as a forum for democracy, would like to know. I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Takes note of the ongoing rumors that Prime Minister Rutte is a candidate for a top European position;]] [[expresses the concern that due to personal career ambitions, the Prime Minister will not fully defend the Dutch interest in the very far-reaching negotiations that will be discussed at the forthcoming European Summit and will discuss them next;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to clarify his personal career ambitions and, in that context, to make the following statement: "During this cabinet period, I will not stand for a European top position or accept a nomination. If I'm nominated, I won't accept such a top position. If I'm appointed, I won't accept the post.',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	I think we're dealing with a motion of censure here. I would appreciate that clarification from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	Well, actually, it's the other way around. We would very much like to have the confidence in our Prime Minister. We would very much like him to clarify this. The rumors are here. That's already been mentioned here. I think you've even been the one to mention this magazine, POLITICO. The Prime Minister is mentioned as one of the most likely candidates for a top European position. It is only logical that we, as a Chamber, should ask for a ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	I did mention that magazine. I have done so knowingly, but I have deliberately failed to draw the conclusions of Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	That is perhaps the difference between SGP and Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	... and that is why I ask my question again: is this a motion of censure or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	Let me put it this way: it is not a motion of censure, because I believe that a motion of censure is different. It says something about "repealing trust in it." That's a different kind of motion. But let me put it this way: if the Prime Minister does not want to give this statement, then perhaps we in the Chamber should have some time to reflect on how much confidence we still put in him as a negotiator in European negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	I'm not quite convinced yet. I was still considering whether this motion would be sufficiently supported for submission at all, but you had already concluded that there were sufficient votes for it. Then I'm assuming that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	I saw enough hands in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	I saw one, but I guess I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	No, no, no, there were plenty more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	We can do a lot of crazy in this room, but this is going down another level. I share Mr Bishop's analysis. This is the explicit expression of "I'm staying," otherwise there is no trust. That's not how the Chamber works. We have faith in rulers unless we send them home. But this is the turnaround of that. Mr Baudet must be honest. This is simply a motion that means resigning, because of course no one is going to make such a statement here, because we assume that someone is sitting down. I don't think this is possible and find it below the belt and below the bar. We shouldn't be doing this. If the motion is filed...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	You may interrupt me again, Mr Baudet, but if you table that motion, it will be the same for my group as a motion of censure. That is how we will deal with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	Okay, that's fine. But I find it very funny and very remarkable that this is the way to respond to it. It strengthens me in the suspicions that perhaps behind the scenes there has been a lot of stuff and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	Isn't it strange to react that way again? It's a perfectly normal request, isn't it? We see this almost every day in the international press. There's a lot of things being said. I would like to clarify the negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr Baudet's suspicious spirit has led to this motion. He may submit it as far as I am concerned, but my group will indeed treat it as a disguised motion of censure or censure. The motion is indeed very inadequate and a reversal of the normal process. We have faith in our rulers until they have no confidence. It's not the other way around. So this motion really doesn't make any sense. Let us vote on it quickly and forget it again very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	That's what we're gonna do today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	Otherwise, let us vote by roll call if there is so much feeling involved!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	I think this discussion... it's clear, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	It is up to Mr Baudet to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	We're going to suspend for two minutes. Then the Prime Minister will respond to the motions that have been tabled. Oh, Mr. Azarkan, did you have a question? To whom? Mr Baudet has already returned to his bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	I have a question on the motion to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	You really need to get to the interrupting microphone fast. I've been there for years, and I was faster than you, always.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	For Mr. Azarkan, I always make time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	You train better than I do, Mr. Chairman! I have a question, so that I may understand the motion as well. I am still dubbing whether I take the motion as my fellow Members do, namely as a motion of censure. I'm just trying to understand. If you are talking about a top European position, are you talking about business? Does this mean that you ask the Minister to state that he cannot work anywhere in Europe in a top position?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	During this cabinet period. It is about a European top position, so it is a top position in the European institutions. That's what the motion is for. As you know, a new European Commission will come in November. That is, of course, what his name is already mentioned for, but of course it can also be about the President of the European Council. I would also like to add that it is perhaps nice to say that these kinds of statements are very common in the American political tradition, for example. People are asked very often: indicate where you are and for which you may be available and for which you are not. I find it really strange that this is so difficult to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	Finally. If I understand correctly, you say that it actually says that 'I will not stand for a political European position'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	This does not therefore apply to business or a football club.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	Well, I have no objection if Mr Azarkan also reads that Mr Rutte is not available for a position at a European football club. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I'll suspend the meeting for two minutes and then we'll move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr. Chairman. As if the presidency of the Netherlands is not a top position in Europe! I've always felt that way, but I'm really glad they love me so much that I can't leave. I wasn't going to. Well, that's convenient, but I'll get to that motion later. Mr Van Rooijen asked me about defence cooperation and the United Kingdom. Yeah, I'll bet on that. I can assure him that. Furthermore, I do not take up the second challenge, namely to speculate on Germany. We are one of the 28 Member States, one of the 27 Member States. We must determine our position ourselves and there are many other Member States with which we work well. I think we should get rid of this fixation on one or two other Member States, which makes ourselves smaller than necessary. Nor should we make ourselves bigger than is necessary, but not smaller than is necessary. I would therefore say that we are even more proud to determine our positions here. The motion in part No. 1265: okay. That means in the new jargon that my suggestion is... I never know when to say "judge Chamber" or "take over." I haven't gotten there yet. I don't really know what the proposers want most. The motion shall be put to the vote in the case of "Room of Judgment."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	They might like that. Otherwise, it's "take over." I just don't know. I've got that list of the new system right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	Yeah, we're gonna practice sometime. Maybe the Prime Minister can tell us what he thinks of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yes. I am therefore in any case in agreement with the motion. Those are the first and fifth options of the form that has been issued to me with reactions to motions. I would like to say, however, that in the case of monitoring, in the case of the Libyan Coast Guard vessels, the EU is involved and that IOM and UNHCR 'do' the situation in the centres, also following the agreements of the African Union and the European Union Summit. So let me add that, because the motion says 'EU monitoring mechanism'. But I assume that is what Mr Verhoeven meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	If I'm going to advise someone with a top European position like this Prime Minister to take over my motion or not, it's getting a little too gritty. I would therefore like to advise neutrally on this, but I am always happy to vote as a Chamber. Then I would "judge Chamber"...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	Judgment Room? Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	... find the most balanced approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr President, this is a good negotiation. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	Well, I didn't mean to. This was also meant not to vote on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	No, but the Prime Minister asked me. And I answer modestly. Then I'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	That's why! Fair enough! And I need to practice. We're gonna have a session once, with the whole cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yeah, I'm gonna check you out next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u189	All these changes, Mr. Chairman. I'm from a center-right party. I can't handle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u190	Main voices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u191	I think it's really complicated. It's all new. However, I come to Mrs Ploumen's and Mr Asscher's motion for a resolution. 1266 on bonus hopping. I should also like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. There will also be a letter from Minister Koolmees about this. It's already been promised. Or do you say take her all the way over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u192	If it's any of your business... if you'd like to take her over, you'd be doing me a big favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u193	That's the spirit. Thank you, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u194	Isn't that right? Less votes and unanimity in the Chamber..............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u195	I'm making friends here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u196	Do you hear that, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u197	Then the verdict becomes: take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u198	I'm gonna have to ask if anyone has any objection to taking over. Mr Mulder would like to vote. That's what we're gonna do. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u199	I can move Mrs Ploumen c.s. in piece No. 1267 live from the second observation: "confirming that the real negotiation of the Brexit is just beginning" and the request to the government. That's fine; I can live with that. But the consideration and the observation above all affect national competences and are all statements of fact. If Mrs Ploumen is prepared to amend the motion by removing the recital and the first observation and leaving aside the final observation and the request, then in my view you have the essence of the motion, and I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. If that doesn't happen, I'm gonna tip her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u200	You knew that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u201	You did me a favor. I'll do you a favor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u202	Fantastic. So the motion will be modified and only the part will remain from the second observation. Then I can say: Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u203	The motion in part No. 1268.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u204	No, I'm not taking over that motion, as Mrs Ploumen is still calling. "Judge Room" would be nicer. With the motion in part No. 1268 by Mr Buma and others I can live well, too. As far as I'm concerned, I'll take it from here. Or is there anyone who would object to that? That's probably what you're gonna ask, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u205	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 1268 by Mr Van Haersma Buma? No? Then this motion is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u206	I see Mr Baudet waving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u207	Oh, Mr. Baudet. Then we shall vote on this motion. The motion in part No. 1269.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u208	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1269 by Mr Van Dijck. We work here according to the roadmap of the Banking Union. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1270 by Mr Van Dijck. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1271 by Mr Van Dijck. This is also not yet discussed and some assumptions in operative part 2 and operative part 3 are not correct. I therefore advise against the motions on the items Nos. 1269, 1270 and 1271. Mr Azarkan's motion on item No. 1272, which is about the redistribution system. A burden-sharing system must be put in place. That's what we want to make agreements about. This motion refers to its abolition. That's not the point. On the contrary, there is still a need for a decision on the precise legal instrument. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 1272.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u209	The Prime Minister went over my motions a little quickly. He said at my motion in part no. 1271 that a number of observations are not correct. I'd like to know which ones aren't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u210	I disagree that the first observation states that the fund will be given more powers. That's not true. We'll just have to wait and see. And it says that it can attract money on the capital market to provide cheap loans to banks and Member States. At least that is not the Dutch proposal. The following observation is also wrong, because the Netherlands has not made any proposal to reduce control. So both of them simply don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u211	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u212	I am not talking about Dutch proposals. I am talking about the legal text of the European Commission which is there and which only needs to be adopted by the European Council. It states clearly that there is more control over that fund and that there is less control over the Netherlands. It is also clear that the European Monetary Fund can recapitalisation banks. Those are cheap loans. And bonds from Member States can be cut on the primary and secondary markets. Those are actually Eurobonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u213	We are not going to deal with the European Commission's proposals here, are we? They're not here, are they? This is about matters relating to the European Council, isn't it? This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u214	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u215	I maintain my advice: dissuade. And I am only maintaining that stronger now, because the chaos that Mr Van Dijck is creating is getting bigger and bigger. Then the motion to part No. 1273 by Mr Azarkan on a statement on the move from the embassy to Jerusalem stating that this decision is extremely unwise and counterproductive. That is exactly what Mr Zijlstra has said about this, so: judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 1274 I advise. We are in favour of a broad anti-discrimination policy, including at EU level. We shouldn't be excluding one group right now. A broad analysis is needed here. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 1275 by Mr Bishop I must advise against the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u216	The Prime Minister quickly discussed the motion in part No. 1273 out. I appreciate it in itself, but I wonder whether it is true that the Netherlands is going to try to achieve a declaration by the European Heads of Government in which the relocation is being criticized in a united way. Is that what's gonna happen? Or is the Prime Minister going to do this now, when that wasn't the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u217	I think this has already happened in the Foreign Affairs Council. I think it's already happened. But I'm gonna let you give me some advice. This is a good question from Mr Buma, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u218	No, because in itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u219	I'm not gonna do anything active right now. I thought this had already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u220	Let me stress this. What happened there, that's right. But I wonder if it will help us if that is the case, and I think it would be best if the Netherlands were to call on the Heads of Government to do so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u221	I fully understand Mr Buma's point. I didn't get a good look at that. This is about the European Council. I believe that the European Council is now on the agenda for the issue of Jerusalem. A statement of this kind is also provided there. Officially, I'm confirmed in my thinking. It is not the case that the Netherlands is now coming up with an initiative. This is an echo of what has already happened in the Foreign Affairs Council. In that sense, I would say: Judge Chamber in the spirit of the motion. I very much agree with Mr Buma. It should not be literally the case that we are now going to make an attempt at the European Council. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u222	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u223	The motion in part No. So 1274 I didn't advise. On the motion in part No. 1275 by Mr Bishop I can say the following. He says to strive for a lasting cooperation. I agree with that, also in the light of the considerations above. However, I am opposed to the general statement of counterweighting the plea for further integration. Because we are in favour of further integration in specific areas. Think of the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u224	It's very restless in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u225	Think of the single market in digital and services. Think of the area of climate, migration and external border surveillance. These are all points on which closer European cooperation is indeed needed. Mr Bishop will probably have more general objectives for EMU here, but that is not clear from the motion. And if that were to prove to be the case, it would be vulnerable, because you cannot make such a general statement about this either. So I would like him to consider putting an end to the word 'Member States' and then removing it from 'counterweight'. If he does, it's Judgment Room. If he doesn't, it's: dissuade. And the motion in part No. 1276 I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u226	This brings us to the end of... Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u227	It's going really fast. Why does the Prime Minister dissuade my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u228	Because this isn't the case. I have no ambitions for another European top job than I already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u229	Is there any reason not to make this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u230	Yeah, because I'm not gonna sing because you're gonna text me. I like to think of my own tunes. A pianist like Mr Baudet knows how much fun that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u231	We're going to vote on this later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-7.u232	After the VSO, we're going to vote on the motions that have been tabled.
