ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 to the gradual phasing out of the deduction due to no or low household debt (34819). Tonight is the continuation of the debate. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions in the first term on behalf of the Government. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are at the beginning of another evening in which we are talking about the bill phasing-out scheme-Hillen. Somehow I still hope that we may be able to finish a little earlier than we did yesterday, but I think the most important thing is that I start by thanking Members all for their input in the first term. Especially to Mr Van Rooijen I would like to stress that I really appreciated and admired his first term, in which he spoke for 4.5 hours on a subject that is clearly close to his heart. That's gonna get us all here. Maybe back to a general introduction. It has emerged from several quarters that there was sometimes something to be said about the process as a whole. I am also really aware of this; everyone who has been through this process is aware that this time has not been very long for the Chamber. That goes for me, too. He was shorter than usual. That also has to do with the start-up timing of this cabinet. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise here that I also believe that there has never been a careless process. In the run-up to this plenary debate, we have really gone through all the steps. More than 200 questions and answers have passed through in writing. It was a relatively short version of the well-known example of the text and a clear amount of text. Of course people are affected, but on this one A4 I have answered more than 200 questions. The effects of phasing out the various types of households, the differences in income, the differences in wealth groups; everything we have tried to bring to the Chamber as well and in time as possible. It is clear that the official staff has worked several nights to prepare for the proper conduct of the plenary debate we have today. There has even been a hearing that has been talked about a lot. A second legislative consultation was once planned, which fell due to this hearing. We have been able to learn a lot about the backgrounds of both long-term speaking people in the first period. They have given some thought to this. All in all, the background to this measure is that the cabinet finally decided to phase out the scheme. Moreover, the Hillen scheme was introduced in 2005 to promote the repayment of residential debt and as relief for owners-residents with no or low home debt. The redemption requirement introduced on 1 January 2013 no longer requires an additional incentive for accelerated repayment by the Hillen scheme. Moreover, the costs of this scheme are considerable in the long term. Recently, the budgetary importance has already increased considerably, as lower interest rates make it attractive to pay off. This interest will only increase further by introducing the mandatory repayment as of 2013. As a result, taxpayers are much more likely to benefit from the scheme. This greatly increases the budgetary importance of the scheme. The estimated cost of the scheme was around half a billion euros in 2015. This has now risen to EUR 1.1 billion in 2042. This combination was a reason for the cabinet to propose that this arrangement be abolished. In this opinion, the cabinet is not alone. That's how it was perceived, but that's certainly not the case. Not only did a number of political groups oppose this bill, but earlier there were also transfers in election programmes, including the PvdA and the SP. They wanted to investigate this idea. In order to mitigate the consequences of the termination of the scheme, it has been chosen to phase out the scheme very quietly in 30 years, in small steps of three thirds of the effect per year. We start with that in 2019. This cabinet will not interfere with these 30 years. I've said that before in answers. People ask: how can we be sure that it doesn't happen? You have that assurance. This cabinet will not interfere with this arrangement in the next four years. The phasing-out of the Hillen scheme will result in a revenue of 24 million tonnes in 2019, which has often been the subject of discussion, reaching 1.1 billion in 2048. Finally, I would like to comment on the effects of phasing out. As has been said, the effects of phasing-out on the different types of households, incomes and wealth groups have been extensively mapped out by us. We fired 29 tables at you last week. It has also become clear that these effects cannot be separated from the other measures taken by the government in the government agreement, in particular those relating to income tax. Among other things, the cabinet increases and introduces the phasing-out of the elderly discount, the increase in the general tax rebate and the reduction of the disc rate in income tax. These measures ensure that a total of 96% of homeowners are making progress, despite the phasing-out of the Hills Act. To give a comparison: 92% of the AOW beneficiaries are making progress. The whole package contains pluses and minuses which, in the cabinet's view, together constitute a balanced package. However, it is impossible to achieve for all within such a package of pluses and minuses in any field. I come to the end of my introduction. Then I'll tell you what my cubes are for tonight. But there's another thing I need to get off my chest. Although I have just expressed my admiration for Mr Van Rooijen's first term, I would nevertheless like to distance myself from a number of things he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u3	I miss Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u4	I hear he's on the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u6	I'll move on. It is a pity, because in a way I address the word to him, but that is the way it is. His advice was that you should not pay off in the future because otherwise you will be affected by the redemption penalty. I'm using his words. That is really an advice I would not take on board, even if I was Mr Van Rooijen. In almost all cases, redemption is always more advantageous than maintaining a mortgage debt. Moreover, having a low debt makes citizens less vulnerable than having a high debt. That is my first point. The second point that I found really careless was the use of the word "genadeklap'. A mercy blow sounds like a knockout for the wallet or people's lives. I thought that was really misplaced if you were selling it against the mapped securities in this cabinet period. Even if you abolish the Hills Act in this cabinet period at once, the purchasing power plates do not justify the word "genadeklap'. That's what I was gonna bring in as an introduction. I have some cubes I'd like to discuss with you. First of all, the effects of the scheme. Secondly, the tax system itself, which has been asked a great deal. Thirdly, the discharge and finally, I would like to share with you a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u7	The Secretary of State indicated that 96% of the people are making progress despite the abolition of the Hills Act. What year is that for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think this is in the reigning period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u9	Then we're two out of 30 years away. That's an irrelevant number to mention in the introduction, isn't it? I'm making such a point because of the tables we got; it was indeed 29. The structural relief of the cabinet for people is 600 million. This cabinet period is brought forward 6 billion. Hillen will only earn this cabinet period 100 million and structurally more than 1 billion. I know it's a lot of numbers, but I still think it's important to know what the effect is for those income groups. For the PvdA, this is mainly about the elderly with a small pension. How much is someone who has become a widow, for example? The fact that the Secretary of State says 96% is progressing in 2021 is very irrelevant in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u10	It's not that at all, I might add. Moreover, Mr Nijboer knows that we have had these AOW beneficiaries, with a full AOW but only a small supplementary pension, in all the forms and sizes in the tables. In fact, we have even added a table: suppose that what we are not doing, by the way, is going to apply the whole Hills measure at once in this period of government, even then the median purchasing power for pensioners has not changed, and for no one has changed it. This is so important to me because I want to remove the suggestion that this would be a mercy blow to the elderly with a small pension. Let me give you a few more examples of why that image is so unjustified to me. I think it is so important to mention it, because the people who are affected by it - almost everyone - will feel in the coming years that the measures taken by this cabinet will lead to progress and not to a decline in their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u11	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u12	Then let the Secretary of State explain one more thing to me. The cabinet will reduce the burden by 6 billion in this cabinet period, but structuralally it will only be 600 million, because after that there will be an increase in the burden. That has been changed extensively; I am not telling you anything new. How is it possible that the income picture given by the State Secretary in Table 1 for 2021 is also structurally the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u13	I don't know exactly what table...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u14	In the main table of the answer, where all these incomes... I've been asking a lot about it. Otherwise, I would have asked a lot more in writing, but now it has to be oral because we have so little time. Table 1 says: in 2021 all €700. Mr Van Weyenberg was waving it around the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u15	Please refer only...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u16	Yes, Table 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u17	Okay, enough. Everyone's got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u18	It says: 2021 exactly the same already structural. You can't do that if you only make 10% structural?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u19	I believe that this table 1 contains the income effects that we have presented for abolishing the Hills Act and the other measures that this cabinet takes in income tax. These are also included in the structural table for 2048. So I would like to draw Mr Nijboer's attention to that. I would also like to point out to him that I do not have the exact figures here that we had presented four cases of AOWS. What was the effect of the Hills Act on these four cases? In two of these four cases, the effect of Hillen was zero, because there were reasons why they did not pay this tax at all. It clearly states that the income effect, the overall effect of these four AOWS cases, resulted in a structural plus, depending on the case, of €678, €1.866, €423 and €494. Those are all pluses in the picture. And that's not an assumed minus, as a little bit of this comes out of it. That's really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u21	I note that the Secretary of State, after his first remark, makes two comments which still make me very sad. First of all, it is obvious that, if you still have a small mortgage debt, a little bit larger than what is small according to the regulations, by not paying off, you prevent yourself from swimming in the trap of abolishing the Hills Act, in the trap of paying off. That's beyond me and I...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u22	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u23	The Secretary of State is suggesting something I can't take care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u24	Okay. You want to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u25	In fact, I have some signals that we will talk to the Secretary of State about afterwards, because they are coming to advise financial advisors to make sure that you do not lose more than is necessary to prevent you from swimming in that trap. The Secretary of State may object to that, but he comes up with a proposal that simply provokes it. Just as the Hills Act provoked and meant for redemption, this abolition now leads to people holding a piece of debt. That is the first point. The second is: we are not going to talk about words here tonight, and therefore we are not going to talk about the word "genadeklap'. Let me make it clear that the people who have approached me say that this is inappropriate governance and a violation of trust. That's my own feeling, too. People who have complied with the law are punished here at once as a thief at night in an ily tempo. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u26	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u27	The words I continued to use do not matter. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u28	Good. You've made your point. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u29	I will leave the latter with Mr Van Rooijen. That's what I want him to do, and he does. I just thought it was important to mention this: if you speak for four and a half hours, there may be a word that you didn't want to say, but I just didn't think it was right. That's what I said, and that's it. By the way, there are now a lot of questions about the AOWS and so on. I shall come back to that in detail, and also to those income effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u30	Well, I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u31	My reaction to the remark...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u32	Wait a minute, Mr. Van Rooijen. The Secretary of State has just indicated that he will address a number of four issues that were all discussed in detail yesterday, as well as all questions. I actually wanted to suggest that we do it on a subject-by-issue basis. If the Secretary of State has addressed a subject, I will give the Members of Parliament who need to respond to it the opportunity to do so. The Secretary of State has only just arrived, and you are now beginning to ask new questions. I would like to put some order in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u33	I'm following your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'd love to. That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u35	I can only observe that the Secretary of State lays down two entrapments here in advance which I cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, you've made that right. You're right about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u37	The Secretary of State regrets that it all has to be done so quickly, even for himself. He says, "It's no different." I've got 200 questions about one piece of bill. I answered them all. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he means it. Is he serious about all these 200 questions being answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u39	That is really not the case. The second report lists all kinds of questions raised by different groups. The members of the SP Group and the DENK Group ask for different households, in particular for older people with different levels of wealth. D66 has a similar question. The members of the PVV also ask about the effects on the surcharges and discounts. The members of the SP ask about the long-term effects. The members of the Labour Party ask about the income effects for much further. And the PVV asks about the effects in case of separation. The government makes a lot of questions here one question to say then: "In the explanatory memorandum of the present bill, the cabinet indicated in the first table the effect of the phasing-out period in 2021. No answer! No answer, to all those groups! The questions are just thrown into one pile and General dismissed. They say we sent a table; figure it out. It was precisely that table that gave rise to further questions. We didn't get an answer to that. And then there is the table on the partial income effects of abolishing the Hills Act and the other income tax measures in the coalition agreement, which Mr Van Weyenberg so flung with yesterday. That's only part of it. Those are only two measures. That is not all the measures. We don't have the total again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u40	I suggest you proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes. I'm moving on. In fact, there are still a lot of questions, even after 29 tables with different examples, in which time and time again the conclusion regarding their effect was about the same. There comes a time when you say: all these questions come together neatly, and we try to answer them by referring to an earlier answer that we had given. Actually, I didn't think that was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u42	My name was just mentioned a few times in connection with that first table, in which it would be only one measure. It says: other ib. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this includes, among other things, the tariff reductions, the elderly discount, which goes up by about €160 and the more than €300 higher tax rebates, and that the integrated Ib package is therefore included in this? I am asking whether it is 100% complete, but it is not that there is only one measure; there is a whole package of government agreement measures, which is good for purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u43	The measures included in the table are the freezing of the length of the third disc, the introduction of the two-disk system, the increase in the general tax reduction, the increase in the labour cut, the increase in the elderly discount, and the phasing-out, of course, the adjustment of the income-dependent combination reduction, the reduction in the percentage of the household credit and the reduction in the percentage by which mortgage interest can be deducted. That is the list of measures contained in this table. If requested, there will be more measures. I say yes, but here we have looked at the impact of all these measures and the Hills effect. If you put it next to each other, it turns out very clearly that one is of a slightly different order than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr President, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u45	A quick question. You've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u46	These measures would also have been taken if the Hills Act were not abolished. They are general measures, for everyone, including for tenants, elderly people and so on. This has nothing to do with abolishing the Hills Act or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u47	That's a bold theorem. In the coalition agreement we have taken all these measures in common. You can then say of one: that you would only have done if... I can't do as much with this as-dan question. They are all parts of the same package, which we have talked about so many times; they have also been taken together. Mr President, I will try to move on. A lot of those elements just come back in my first term. Let me also mention the questioner, because he has asked a question with which I can make a case. With regard to the securities, for example, Mr Omtzigt asked: what supplementary pension does an AOW beneficiary start paying income tax? That question makes sense if you want to know the effects of the measure. He wants to know for both a single and a married couple, now and at the end of the cabinet period. I would like to give an answer to that, because it gives some insight into the picture that is particularly deeply affected by this measure for an older person with a small pension. The answer is as follows. A single AOW beneficiary with a full AOW benefit will only pay a supplementary pension of approximately €1,100 tax in 2018. For a married couple with a full AOW benefit, this is approximately €3,500. This has now increased in 2021 and will apply to a supplementary pension of €1,900 and €4,700 respectively. Only then will these people be eligible for Ib duty. This calculation for 2021 is based on the current transfer of the coalition agreement, with the assumed evolution of inflation, contract wages, WML et cetera, et cetera. A married couple also needs to have a supplementary pension in order to be able to fully redeem the old-age discount. The elderly discount is not cashable against the partner income, so I say. For the sake of clarity, Mr Omtzigt mentioned an AOW couple with a pension of €300, and we assumed that he meant a pension per month, otherwise it would be a very small pension. Mr Omtzigt asks whether I also have a picture of the groups for which the decline of the Hills deduction has a financial impact greater than the beneficial measures in the coalition agreement. That's actually the question of the order of magnitude: what are you talking about? Of course, Mr Omtzigt's question depends heavily on the specific case. This may include the age of the taxpayer, income, taxable capital or non-taxable assets, interest on the mortgage loan and the WPA value. It is quite complicated to put that into the picture, but in fact Mr Omtzigt is asking for cases that are part of groups that we have depicted in the purchasing power pictures. Then we'd better answer the question. The government is therefore looking at the whole package for the effect of the measures on purchasing power. This is where it comes in: over 96% of homeowners are making progress. The probability that the phasing-out of the Hillen scheme will have a structural negative effect on net income is, moreover, the highest level of net income that is also nice to realise among the group of users covered by the so-called "villa tax'. We are therefore saying that it is very unlikely that there is anyone for whom Hillen has a greater effect than the positive measure. However, if a group could be devised for which the abolition of Hillen could be more severe, then those who have a house with a value of more than 1 million would be. I am only trying to put that image in the face of the image that has sometimes been outlined in the debate. Mrs Leijten commented on the observation that 63% of the people affected by the phasing-out of the Hillen scheme had assets in box 3. She's asking how much power it's actually going to be. She also asks how many people have redeemed their homes, have no wealth, and have a small pension. I think these are the questions that had been raised before, let us just say. I'll answer them here. Households using the Hills scheme often have a significant loadable box 3 capital, 63% macro versus 25%. The conclusion is that people who use Hillen's deduction often also have a large box 3 power, to put it simply. Of the 924,000 households using the Hillen scheme, one third have taxable assets in box 3 of more than €100,000. To Mrs Leijten's second question, the answer is that about 40,000 households have a small pension and no box 3 capital. The effect of the measure is, moreover, virtually nil for this group, since it is not in a position to redeem the tax rebate. The note following the report presents a breakdown by box 1 income of the taxable persons with a Hillen deduction. Many of these taxpayers also have a partner. In the table we presented, we had not included it before. If you take that with you, you can see the effects of that. As soon as you take the combined income, the percentage of people with an income is quite reduced to €30,000, from 63% to 39%, if I say so. So looking at the partner income also gives a very different picture. In the majority of cases, one of these two partners has been allocated their own home and thus the Hillen deduction. Merging up to household level leads to the 924,000 households with Hillen deductions, of which 65% ultimately have a partner. The table I just mentioned also indicates that. This shows that 10% of households with Hillen deductions have a combined box 1 income of less than €15,000. Each household also looked at the loadable box 3 power. It then appears that 37% of households do not have a taxable box 3 power and 63% of this same group have a taxable box 3 power, 30% of which are less than one tonne but 33% of more than one tonne.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u48	I want this table and this explanation on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u49	We can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u50	That has been asked for in the further report and no answer has been given. We get a distribution of the Hills deduction to box 1 income, which shows that it is about some incomes and that 23% is below €15,000. And when we look at compound incomes, it turns out that it is only 10%. What kind of information have we had?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u51	I do not think that question was asked and we have now brought it in ourselves. But that does not appear to be the case, I can see from Mrs Leijten's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u52	We've given it all. That was one of the Secretary of State's first sentences. I just asked, how many people have only AOW and a small pension, then you're around that $15,000, no capital in box 3 and a paid-back house? All kinds of other groups have asked even more second-class questions. We've had tables of that, too, but there's not everything in there. Here the preparation is of course flickering. How can we judge all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u53	I actually think that, in this new data, we are mainly saying that it is not the case, as we have already assumed in an earlier story, that the AOW is hit hardest with the lowest income. That is not the case. In fact, if you look at it with a partner, it's a lot less. And then when you look at the ability of this group, you see that there is a correlation, perhaps even greater than we would have imagined, and that the people who use the Hills deduction also have a great positive ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u54	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u55	And I want to believe all this. And I want to understand all this. Only, we haven't had this. We haven't had this. I said it very clearly yesterday: if I cannot see the consequences of the abolition, if I do not know what I am going to say yes to and if I cannot think about how we can compensate for any negative effects for the people we do not want to touch, then we cannot agree. Here it is said that all these suggestions are incorrect, because there are better figures. We should have had them before the start of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yes, you did. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Does the Chamber get those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yes, we have these figures. Maybe we can copy and distribute the table already. Or maybe we could put that in the set tomorrow morning. I really don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u58	It's possible. They're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u59	In any case, it is not so much the impression that I want to take away for a moment that we initially did not answer a question that was there. If I am now trying, in my term, to deepen this discussion, we must be careful that every time someone comes to an interrupting microphone and says that they have not yet had certain figures. I can't call all of this either. I actually thought you would be satisfied with the idea that some additional information was given about the questions that were asked. I think this adds something to the debate. This is really impossible, because otherwise we can ask for every bill: dear Secretary of State we have not yet had a picture of what people with blue eyes and an income of so much... That's ridiculous, isn't it? With so many tables, we wanted to tell the same policy story. At some point there is also a limit to the amount of information that you can ask for even more. We've always provided information. I tried to give you some more information here, but if that's not appreciated, we won't. But I'm just trying to help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u60	It has just been agreed that the information you and perhaps more Members of Parliament have requested will be forwarded or distributed to all Members of Parliament. That's being worked on right now, that's what I understand. The Secretary of State is only at point 1 of the securities. I would actually like to suggest that we give the Secretary of State an opportunity to go into this a little further and then interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u61	I was done interrupting, but I'd like to respond to the Secretary of State. If it is said that there is information that we would have wanted, but which we did not get, I understand that he is a little nervous and says: I am giving it to you now! But of course it's crazy that you're getting a whole number line over you again, when it's been said that you've had everything in 29 tables. Appreciate we getting the table. But the fact that we received this bill less than 18 days ago is inconvenient. We must now ask questions under steam and boiling water. As a result, we may be wrong to formulate it and the Secretary of State has an escape hole to avoid replying. That's why this is happening. I appreciate this being handed out now. If there are any more of this kind of explanation tables with extra information, it might be very proactive if they just came to us at all, already in a set. Then we can read along and judge everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u62	That is clear, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u63	It is, of course, part of our task as representatives of the people to get the best possible insight into the effects of this bill. I appreciate that the Secretary of State, as far as I can see in this short period, is doing his best to give us as much information as possible. At the same time, I am also trying to get a more general picture of the effects of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u64	The Secretary of State was still working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u65	He just made the comparison between the villa tax and the effects for people with low pensions. Now the CPB says that the abolition of the Hills Act increases inequality in the Netherlands. If only the group of older people is looked at, how does the Secretary of State judge the general picture? Does the abolition increase inequality, or does it reduce inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u66	This question has, of course, been asked before. I would like to look at the Secretary of State to see if the answer to this question belongs to the answers he is going to give, otherwise he will have to answer this question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u67	I think I'm going to answer that. By the way, the word "indiscretion" is quite broad; it can be about income, but also about wealth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u68	It's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u69	Exactly. I'll get back to you. In particular, I am trying to explain the policy story that has been set out in recent times, which shows that it mainly affects people with lower incomes. The example of the villa tax is to point out that if we see a group for which we can think of negative effects from the total of measures that the government agreement creates, that is the group that may fear the measure and not the elderly with a low pension, because we have shown it very clearly in the first table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u70	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u71	I don't think it's in the answers yet, unless I missed it. Is there an estimate of how much of the 1.1 billion burdens that are ultimately included in the bill will be added to the millionaire tax? Can you calculate that? That also gives an idea of what the effect ultimately is on inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u72	I suggest that you go into this, but you also finish the block
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u73	Oh, yeah. In my opinion, in the first tables we sent to the Chamber in the first or second set of replies, we made an assessment of the value of the World Health Organization and its effects. I think we have given a very good answer to that. I just want to get rid of one more thing. It was a bit of Mrs Leijten's suggestion that we are hiding something here during the reply. I really don't like that. We do our utmost to answer all the questions that exist. There's no way we're supposed to hide anything. Mr Nijboer asked about Table 1 of the detailed report. I have just mentioned the list of measures in it and I am not going to do it again. I indicated it in connection with the debate on the interruption with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u74	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, sorry, Mr. Nijboer. I have just said that the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to discuss this further. You're the first person I've given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asks which groups will be affected by the effects on the surcharges caused by the phasing-out of the Hills scheme and when these taxpayers will be affected. At present, older people in particular who have fully relieved their homes face the disadvantage of phasing out the Hill scheme. This is also reflected in these tables. Older people with low incomes are relatively more often entitled to care allowance. If their review income rises to around €20,000, the healthcare allowance they receive will fall, as they will end up further down the phasing-out path. In the overall package of measures, they are compensated for this through a generic increase in the care allowance for couples, lower tax rates, a higher general tax discount and a higher elderly discount. On balance, therefore, most older people, even when they are dealing with the phasing-out of the Hills scheme, have a positive purchasing power development. It is up to this cabinet and another cabinet to see the annual income effects of the policy in conjunction with any adjustments to balance purchasing power. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the consequences of the phasing out of the Hillen scheme on the income-dependent contribution. The answer to this is that the abolition of the Hills scheme has no impact on the payment of the IAB. The phasing out of the Hilling Scheme does not affect the taxable income in box 1, nor the basis for the IAB. That may have been unclear, but it is in box 1 and not in the IAB. About the AOW benefit, the pension, the annuity and the profit, the taxpayer pays an income-dependent contribution to the health insurance, the IAB premium. I'm done with the effects now. I have skipped a few things and moved on to the taxation system's own home, on which a number of questions have also been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u77	I promised to give Mr Nijboer the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm trying to get out of the puzzle in Table 1. Maybe I figured it out myself. The other measures for income tax are always structurally the same. I didn't get that. The EUR 5 billion increase that will come after 2021 is the return of the write-down of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Is it perhaps because this group, which has relieved his house, does not notice that? Is that why it's the same amount? Is that what it's in? I'm trying to understand that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u79	Before I gamble on that a little bit: it could be. I'm thinking about it and in a way it doesn't sound unreasonable, but I'm afraid to say this is it. I suggest that I return to that in the second term. I think that's better than my guess. In any case, therefore, the structural section, up to 2048, is reflected in Table 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u80	It matters a lot, because there's five billion in between. Those people who paid off their house didn't enjoy that deduction anymore. At least I think it's a creative way of presenting, but I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u81	He'll come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u84	We're getting into the tax system's own home. There were also a number of questions about this. Mrs Leijten asked if the cabinet has a vision of living, how the cabinet wants to deal with buying and renting, young and old, more building, less building and focused building. She also asks whether there is an alternative to the measure we are now proposing and whether the phasing-out should not have been part of a broader housing vision. The answer is that, of course, the cabinet has a vision of the housing market. A great deal of attention has been paid, among other things, to stimulating housing and providing an offer that fits people's financial potential, as this used to go wrong in the past. There is also attention to today's wishes, because we are building differently than before, and the attention to target groups of which young people and older people are part. The choice of accommodation is less disturbed by the way in which it is built. In addition, the Cabinet maintains the various measures taken in recent years to reduce the financial risk of the high mortgage debt. That should also be clear. As a result of these measures, the Hillen Act contributes less and less to the original principal objective of the scheme, namely to promote redemption. That is why we are proposing this measure. Mr Omtzigt, Mrs De Vries and Mr Snels raised a number of questions on the simplification of mortgage interest subsidies. For example, Mrs De Vries asked me what I meant by agreeing with the Council of State's plea for simplifications in the home housing scheme. As far as she was concerned, no new measures had been taken in this area. Mr Snels asked me if I could take with me in an exploration of box 3 scenarios of taxation and own house. I have a brief answer to that, namely that, in line with the assessment policy of tax expenditure, the home housing scheme will be thoroughly evaluated. This evaluation will take place in 2020. The evaluation will include the feasibility for the Tax Administration. Moreover, I do not want to anticipate this evaluation with all kinds of other commitments in this area. This could put other evaluations and policy plans in jeopardy next year. I will not therefore identify any possible simplification or come up with any new plans in this area next year. Like my predecessor in office, I believe that the home housing scheme is a rather complex scheme for both the citizen and the Tax Administration. That is also mentioned earlier. We'll all agree on that soon. This is due, among other things, to the choice made in the past to attach to the deductible costs for the own home the condition that the household debt must be repaid at least annuity in 30 years. In combination with the transitional right for the cases before 1 January 2013, there may be uncertainty about situations of relocation, stay abroad or break-up of relationships, because those are typical things that are difficult to follow. Given the complexity of the home scheme and the many changes that can take place for 30 years, the monitoring of the home scheme has also become rather complex and labour-intensive. It is for this reason that we choose to keep simplification high on the agenda within these possibilities. Up to now, adjustments have been relatively limited. Mrs De Vries asked me if I saw the phasing-out of the Hillen scheme as a way out for box 3. Furthermore, she asked how I look at the fact that property owners benefit more from the government agreement than tenants. With regard to these two groups, there would be a possible unfair distinction in the taxation of assets. We have already discussed this issue with each other in previous stages of the discussion of this bill. The phasing out of the Hillen scheme has not been proposed as part of a broader vision of the housing market. That's what I keep saying: it's not part of that. Nor has it been proposed to tax build-up capital in line with the home in box 3, unlike how we do it now. The measure has been proposed as a result of the repayment requirement, which reduces the need for the scheme. This, combined with a strong budgetary interest, shows why we have opted for the phasing out of the Hills Act. In previous documents, I have already responded to a question from the Christian Union. It may be a bit of an odd comparison, but if you save in stones, the percentage is very different than when you save in box 3. It really matters. That's a bit of a crooked equation, because you don't always have that choice. You can see that it is quite more expensive to save in box 3 than to save in a house up to €210,000 worth of World War I. This means that the property owner does not have to pay any tax for saving in stones. This difference still exists with a complete phase-out of Hillen, but... and that is the advantage.. the difference gets smaller. Mr Omtzig asked why the income and deductible costs for the home are not reduced and then deducted or taxed at the same rate, depending on the situation. Again, there is that distinction. The house is housed in box 1. The house is then taxed to the marginal rate in box 1. For the mortgage interest rebate, the previous cabinet has arranged for it to be paid at a lower rate. Under the government agreement, this rate of deduction is being reduced more quickly, as you all know. Saldering would then mean taxing the property at a lower rate than for other income sources in box 1. And that is clearly not intended, not by this cabinet, but also not by previous Cabinets. I would add that there would also be a considerable budgetary loss, a loss which, on the basis of a rough estimate, as we now have, amounts to about 150 million. I don't think that's what we want. Mr Omtzigt asked for an evaluation clause in the law. Four years after its entry into force, he wants to evaluate the effects of the rise in house prices on income in 2023. Are there unforeseen effects, for example on the villa border? In Amsterdam, those prices are already increasing. In the note on the report, I have already indicated that I have some hesitation in such an assessment. At the same time, I would also like to give Mr Omtzigt a little credit once in a while. In 2020, we will evaluate the entire home housing scheme. I guess it's a little early then. In the next evaluation of the home scheme, we can look at what is happening and what we can possibly do exactly about the aspects that Mr Omtzigt mentions. Then it will be part of the evaluation cycle of the home housing scheme and will not take up any additional budget. That could be one way in which we can well continue this discussion together. I'll be on the cube of Redemption. I see that Mr Snels wants to interrupt, presumably about the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yeah, about the last block. I am referring to thinking about other systems to deal with their own homes in taxation. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the unrest in society is not only about the purchasing power effects, but also about the reliability of the government by constantly interfering in taxation around its own house?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u86	I just need to see if I understand this question exactly. Do I think that in such an evaluation I should look at more than just the budgetary effects, and also at the reliability of the government? Do I understand the question that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u87	You're going one step further. I'll start with the unrest that's going on right now. I don't think a lot of people trust politics anymore. Politics makes promises that it will not do anything about taxation and its own house, and every time there are adjustments in the current system. For example, people no longer believe that the 30 years will last.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u88	Okay. I understand that feeling exists. Especially when a party shines out very clearly that nothing will ever happen and then something happens, I can imagine that you think as a voter: that's weird. At the same time, there have been a lot of public discussions, in public, about the sustainability of home housing schemes and about the effect of far too high price formation, for example through mortgage interest deductions, in city centres such as Amsterdam, but now in more and more parts. I therefore honestly believe that the electorate has long understood and understood that there has been a fiscal regime around their own home that was too broad for sustainability, and that measures are then being taken in reasonable terms to phase it out quietly. I believe that the phasing out of the Hills Act is also an example of this. It is about something that is no longer necessary and that we say: we do not want it anymore, but we do realize that it has effects for everyone in their wallet if we change it. That's why we've chosen to hang a 30-year phase-out. Then someone can say: who guarantees me that 30 years will last 30 years? I say to that: I do not think that this is by guaranteeing anyone here, unless someone has a glass ball and knows exactly which coalitions have the majority in the Chamber over the next 30 years. We just don't know. All I can say is that this cabinet is just not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u89	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u90	You're a politician yourself now. Would you promise it yourself to people? Would you promise as a politician...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u91	Would the Secretary of State promise? Through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u92	Through you, Mr. Chairman. Would you, through the chairman, promise yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u93	Again! You can try again. It's kind of complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u94	Madam President, would the Secretary of State himself promise, for example in an election debate, that this phasing-out scheme will last for 30 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u95	That too is a typical as-dan question. Mr Snels is, of course, quite right that I am also a politician today and that I am going to talk about that. In general terms, it is not just a matter of this, but also of a whole range of other measures, and I think that anyone who says that he is never going to do anything is ignoring reality. There may just be things coming your way that color a decision that you could always well defend, after a few years. I think that's just the reasonableness of the doubt that goes with it. I don't think I'd be anyone who in a public debate, in a political statement, says something never, never, never happens, unless there's a reason. But at this point, I wouldn't expect that soon. Anyway, it's kind of a like-dan question. I cannot give any guarantees on this point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u96	Very briefly, Mr Snels. Do I hear you're trying to draw a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u97	The conclusion is this. If the Secretary of State is on the market and if any citizen asks him if he can rely on the 30-year phasing-out scheme for the Hills Act to continue, the Secretary of State says: no, I cannot promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u98	If I were to speak the truth, and I am happy to do so, and I hope often, then my answer will indeed be: no, I cannot give you that guarantee, but I will for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u99	With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to go over to the table we just received.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u100	Oh, yeah, it just got handed out. You were able to study it quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u101	Well, there are some things that stand out. It is striking that at the lowest incomes there is the least power, the highest percentage without box 3 power. If you go to the highest income, it's a negligible percentage, 1% or 2%, that has no power. Of course, that makes sense. When your income is higher, you also have fast power. In the explanatory statement that we received from the table at household level, it says that 65% of it is together. Is it possible to indicate what this ratio is precisely in the case of lower incomes without ability? Is that possible or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'm not sure I fully understand this question. It would help me greatly if I knew which way Mrs Leijten wanted to go. What exactly does she want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u103	In the hearing we had, it was said from the elderly organisations that people who have a wealth in stone have a small income, are alone and face the deduction, saying that this is the drop that makes the bucket flood. This bucket has already been filled by other measures. I'm trying to figure out how big that group is. We have so many tables I'd like to know about the interaction! For example, in Table 3 in the first note of the report, we see how much the average deduction from the WMD value is. How does it relate, for example, to incomes? I won't ask for any of that, but I actually want to know how many of the people with an income up to $35,000 are single.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u104	I don't even know if we have those numbers exactly, but I really wonder what that adds. In the first table we gave it was about individual level. You already have that table. Here we say: the image shifts a bit if you take the joint income. The figures in that first table, on an individual level, are correct. So I think I should refer you to the same table, which did not contain the combined income, but the income per taxpayer. I have read this table in such a way, let me say that I noticed and would like to share with you that 35% of the people who make less than €15,000 together have a taxable box 3 power of more than €100,000. 25% of those with a combined income of less than €15,000 have taxable assets above the limit of €30,000 to a tonne. You can also see that in that group up to €15,000 the percentages are even higher than in the groups directly above. For example, this may have to do with retirees who no longer have income, but still live well. So there are all kinds of effects, but what I'm trying to make clear is that you can endlessly ask about these general statistics. Suppose someone is single, was he alone longer or had the partner just died? It's so hard to catch all those effects! That goes for everything. That is why I am trying to say to the question what this means for people all the time that we can very well reason what this means for groups of people, but almost never what it means for a purely individual case. We can say that we think that the measures that are being taken here are never, on balance, more negative than the positive measures we took and that if there is a group that might be affected, that is not the group with a low WPA value but the group with a WPA value of more than 1 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u105	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u106	For that, you don't see me walking to the interrupting microphone. That wasn't my message yesterday either. It bothers me a little that the Secretary of State points here to those with power, because I do not think that the angels are there either. 40% have no power. It's about people being able to take the hit they're getting. The Secretary of State can say that he is fixing this with all the other income tax measures, but whether that repair is sufficient with that bucket that has been filled for all the elderly in recent years is the question. That is what Mr Van Rooijen just said. Then this bill can certainly weigh heavily. I'm so curious how many of the people who make at home level up to €35,000... On the second page, you can say very clearly: "Combination at household level leads to 924,000 households with Hillen deductions, of which 65% of households with a partner. That means 35% are single. What's the relationship with this group? The question was whether that could be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u107	We can add everything, but I really wonder what it really matters for the debate whether the weighting or the measure is good or not. It is also good to realise that this is not the general group. This group is a division of the people who have Hillen. You say you shouldn't look at wealth, but these people have both a full or almost fully relieved house and in many cases quite a lot of power. Mrs Leijten says 40% does not, but 60% does. Compare this with other income groups, for example the income groups between €80,000 and €85,000. For this, 22% have no power. That's gonna go down, of course. Mrs Leijten herself concluded that it is not illogical that people with a higher income probably also have a higher capacity. In that sense, the table surprised me less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u108	Following on from what Mrs Leijten said: Mrs Leijten, I and my fellow Members took concrete examples from the hearing. I read some last night. I'm talking about single people right now. I only mention the group of single women and divorced women. That group was clearly on the agenda there: with AOW, virtually no pension. But because they probably bought a cottage a long time ago and they don't owe it anymore, those people have to cancel their newspaper. That's the group we need to talk about. We should not make all the other discussions bigger or smaller. As long as we do not know how serious this is, how many people it is and whether you are prepared to compensate, we cannot say that it will be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u109	On Mr Omtzigt's question, which indicated four categories, we tried to give some substance to this group. We were talking about a couple: an AOWP + €10,000 and an AOWP without a supplementary pension with a paid-up house of €250,000. That's very logical, very normal for a lot of people. The effect-Hilling for these people is zero: now zero, in 2020 zero, in 2021 zero, in 2028 zero and in 2048 zero. All over the idea that these cases are the ones that suffer from them, we can do twenty or thirty tables of pictures, but that effect remains the same. For this group, the measure is simply not serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u110	We've gone from single people to households. Fine, that's extra information. But my question is what is going on with this group of single women, divorced women and widows? You may take a household type with standard examples. A number of groups in this Chamber want to know how serious that problem is by abolishing this law, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u111	Then I'll give you another example that was already in a set. We are talking about a single AOW pensioner without a supplementary pension, the minimum pensionable, with a paid-up home of approximately €250,000; that is about average. For this purpose, the effect Hills will be zero in 2019, zero in 2021, zero in 2028 and zero in 2048 - €156. You can say that's very bad, but at the same time all the ib measures we've taken, which I just mentioned, have an effect of +€579. On balance, this AOWOer has an advantage at structural level of €423 no matter whether it was a lady or a gentleman. That's the effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u112	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u113	Here we come into the dilemma. I knew these figures, of course. We are concerned about the fact that specific examples have emerged in that hearing, including from the letters I read out, of individual cases in which all kinds of costs can also be incurred. That's all I have to say. Our concerns relate to each individual case of anyone affected by the abolition of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u114	I think that is often the case and that is also something for the years to come. It is almost impossible to defend you against an individual case or a case. Someone's got a confluence of circumstances. That is then very nice or very unpleasant, depending on the measure. But if we are to take fiscal measures, the best thing we can do is to give the best idea of what the effect is for someone with a similar life. This is, for example, the category "single AOW' with no pension and a paid-up home of €250,000. That's what we put in the picture. There can always be all kinds of individual situations that make it something different, such as the interest rate of your home. That could be anything or anything. You can't put them all in the picture. What you can put in the picture are those groups. For those groups that is really important, because I think that the framing there has been so wrong over and over again, the effect is 0, 0 and 0 in the next ten years. Only in 2048 is the effect of this individual measure a minus, while on balance it is a plus. That is why I have sometimes asked what it adds to do more groups. We can also do a single AOWP with a pension of €10,000 with a paid-back house of €250,000. Shall we do that one? What are the effects of this? Well, that's very clear. This will be in 2019 and we'll talk about it on an annual basis at €15. Mr Omtzigt has already calculated it more often in euro cents. The effect-Hilling in 2028 is €137 in the min and in 2048 €411 in the min. At the same time, all the Ib measures we take in those years lead to a positive overall picture for this group of people of €451 in 2017 in €678 in 2028 and €494 in 2048. I'll continue to relieve the block. Mr Azarkan asked whether a repayment requirement could affect price formation in the housing market. Prices in the housing market are, of course, influenced by a multitude of factors, such as interest rates, wage developments, borrowing capacity and tax subsidies. In this respect, it is almost impossible to say exactly to what extent the tax repayment obligation has an effect on the house price. I can say something about it in theory, namely that withdrawal will lead to a lower subsidy on the sales market. This is expected to have a depressing effect on prices. Well, that's what you'd expect. At the same time, it's funny again, I'll say, to see that since the introduction of the redemption requirement in 2013, contrary to what you might theoretically expect, house prices have just risen by 22%. Then it always remains the question whether that increase would have been even higher than. That's another counterfactual you can never give a good answer to. At least it's not like there's a one-on-one relationship in there. The obligation to repay has therefore hardly any effect on the maximum loan capacity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As a result of interest rate developments and income increases, loan capacity has increased slightly compared to income since 2013. The maximum loan to value is important, even when controlled by supervisory supervision, over this period has been reduced from 105% in 2013 to 100% in 2018. That actually means that less and less could be borrowed. The loan-to-income standards have also been tightened. Both measures actually protect households much better against unexpected falls in house prices. Mr Omtzigt asked me to confirm that the discharge of the property debt also pays after the phasing out of the Hillen deduction. That's actually the question I was talking about earlier: are you or are you not gonna keep paying off if you have Hillen or not? Mr Azarkan also asked: what are the consequences of phasing out the Hills scheme on the repayment of mortgage debts? In the note on the report, I have already indicated that it is unlikely that the scheme will result in less repayment. Logically, I'd almost say. For almost all cases we can think of, redemption will always be more advantageous under the guise of borrowing money costs money. In the case of a savings rate of close to 0% at present and a mortgage interest rate of 2% at present, these are quite real assumptions, it could even be slightly higher in the case of the mortgage interest rates. Therefore, the tax advantage does not outweigh the interest charges of the mortgage loan, even in this case and even if the Hillen deduction has been abolished. Precisely because the mortgage interest rate is almost always going to be higher than the interest rate on savings, this conclusion is also justified for the future. So it remains for homeowners, even with phasing out the Hills scheme, in almost all cases, I say again, more advantageous to continue to pay off than to maintain a mortgage debt. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels and Mr Van Rooijen asked whether the repayment requirement of the property debt could not be reduced from 100% to, for example, 75%, 50% or even 30%. I think I can be brief about that. The cabinet has not chosen to limit the repayment requirement. The repayment requirement contributes significantly in the long term to the reduction of total outstanding mortgage debts. The redemption requirement ensures that in the long term each taxable person reduces his property debt. In the event of a more limited repayment requirement after 30 years, depending on the level of limitation of the redemption requirement, there is still a substantial debt. The future monthly expenses will then be higher than if they had been paid in full. These high monthly expenses will often be dealt with when one is older and has a more limited income. Reduction of the repayment requirement would, of course, also lead to significant budgetary losses. So that's why this cabinet doesn't choose this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u115	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that abolishing the law doesn't lead people to consider non-dissolving?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u116	I'm not exactly sure people will consider it. But when they think about it, they will come to the conclusion that even without the Hillen scheme, and for the time being it still exists, is often cheaper not to borrow, namely because borrowing costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u117	That's a really wrong assumption. The consideration people make is to what extent the money they have also leads to returns in another place? In this case, the return is that one pays less on one's own house or not. Then you can't say that people don't make that trade-off? This would also mean that the introduction could not have helped to speed up people's redemption, and that has happened, right, the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u118	Sure, because the moment you give a bonus on that, they're going to pay off faster. But what I'm saying is that redeeming even without the bonus makes sense. With a bonus, the accelerated redemption becomes even more meaningful. I don't think we're looking at that any differently, in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u119	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u120	I think we're thinking differently about the extent to which people will consider non-dissolving. Those people are really there. There are even cases where students borrow maximum to put that money away where they can earn a return. So people are actually looking, also opportunistically, at where they can get a return on their money and where they have the least cost. Then it's got to be an incentive, right? If the Secretary of State says there's no incentive, I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u121	The biggest incentive is that we introduced a redemption requirement. In this sense, that choice is not really so much at issue anymore. If you want to qualify for a mortgage interest deduction, you have to meet an annuity mortgage. If you don't have that choice, like in this case where we're talking about old cases, I keep thinking that lowering your mortgage debt, not just your mortgage debt, but other debts, is generally more advantageous than not having a high debt. Maybe it's different in specific examples. That's possible, but ceteris paribus isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u123	Then Mr Dijkgraaf. He asked what the cabinet had to say to the elderly with a relieved house, and what against all the others who have paid extra and who now see the rules of the game changed. I think that was his question. As we have mentioned in other written documents and during the General Financial Reviews, all measures in the coalition agreement can be seen in some sense in conjunction. The cabinet helps elderly people, including those with a relieved home, through the series of measures that we have already mentioned a few times today. Taking out one measure and saying "what do you think"? is a little dodgy if you do not mention that there is also a series of other measures in place. In that respect, I did not have so much trouble explaining what I should say. I would also like to refer to Mr Omtzigt's example, which clearly shows that the elderly with a paid-up home, mentioned in those examples, are simply improving on it. We were just talking about a few examples of this. I just outlined that in the piece before that. There were a few other questions and then I come a little close to the end of my pile. Mrs De Vries asked about the possibility of avoiding existing cases. It asks whether it is really not feasible to exclude existing cases. Mr Van Rooijen has already argued in favour of this. In the written documents, I pointed out the complexity of the home scheme. This is partly due to the transitional right to which the repayment obligation does not apply. The creation of a new category of transitional right will further complicate both the service and the taxpayer's own housing arrangements and, above all, make them unnecessarily opaque. It is undesirable to have more and more different transitional regimes in parallel within one scheme, where people are covered by either one or the other and in some cases by both transitional regimes. All this is independent of whether or not you are able to easily determine who is an existing case and who is not. I can give you some examples of this. I won't do that yet, but then you have to think about relocations, second and third mortgages, divorces and remarriage, in short, all cases where you have to start defining when an existing case is still an existing case, and when an existing case stops being an existing case. This leads to endless discussions, which are also poorly controlled by the service. That is why we will not do so. I will leave out the examples of Leo, Lia, Martijn and Evi, but they come down to what I just said. Over a long period of time, as a result of these possible mutations, it becomes inimitable to determine who has remained an existing case and who has not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u124	I think you're right about keeping track of all these changes, but you said something very important at the beginning. The rules on home ownership are already so complicated, even with the transitional arrangements we have, that this extra complexity is so prohibitive that we can no longer find a solution if we abolish the Hills Act, but make an exception for existing cases. Doesn't that mean you still have to reconsider enforcing that law? Because you are actually saying that I would perhaps like to make an exception, but then it becomes so complicated that I will refrain from doing so, apart from other technical complications, which I admit are also there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u125	No, I think there are two different things going on here. The phasing out of the Hills Act, as we are proposing, is well implemented by the Tax Administration. She needs to be properly prepared. As you all know, it takes 15 months for this to happen, because it is a structural change. When it comes to feasibility once it has been adapted in the systems, the Tax Administration has no major objections to it. There is, of course, an extra complexity, but we can have it well. It is in the example I was just talking about, very specific about the right of transition. Certainly a transitional right that tries to define what an existing and a non-existent case is will cause problems not only in this law but also in almost any other tax law, because there may be a lot of changes in the lives of those who may lead to the question: are you still an existing case or not? In general, we are opposed to such transitional arrangements. Mr Azarkan had a question that was actually already raised in an interrupting debate with Mr Snels. He asked if I could guarantee that this arrangement has been in place for 30 years and could never be accelerated. Again, of course I can't. I don't think anyone can. I can say that this government will not do that. Mrs De Vries asked about the possibilities of care mortgages, such as sales and hiring back, that kind of possibilities. Could there possibly still be gaps in practice? And in a way, how can you make your house liquid? That's, I think, the question behind it. To this end, there are also possibilities for cashing in the excess value of your property, both by selling with possible rent back as well as by taking out a refund-free mortgage or a cash mortgage, which you also have. House owners can use this to cover, for example, the cost of care. During this period, the cost of living often decreases, while at the same time the cost of care increases very much. I know that many health insurers and pension funds have put that idea quite high on the agenda. They're looking to see if they can do more with that. However, the supply of such products is currently limited. Suppliers will therefore have to check on a case-by-case basis whether the offer of the product is justified. You don't want to sell people something they might regret with retroactive effect. Following the customised platform created for this purpose, the Dutch Financial Markets Authority has published a clarification that gives providers more insight into how responsible individual customisation can be offered to seniors who like to withdraw liquidity from their homes. I have two brief questions to ask. Then I'm at the end of my pile. Mr Azarkan asked whether it was true that the bill was referendable. I didn't have an answer to that very quickly then, but I did now. As indicated in the written documents, the bill for phasing out the Hillen scheme is referendable. I've already written that to you, but I forgot that myself, for which I apologize. Mr Azarkan also asked whether the private house could be abolished if the dividend tax were to continue and the corporation tax would not be reduced. In the note on the report, I replied to the same question from the members of the DENK Group that this could be done if you only looked at the budgetary aspect. But if you look at all the other aspects, you might come to the conclusion that this would not be wise. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you. That was the government's first term. We're going to the second term now. Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr President, you are going to be very happy with me, because I am going to save you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u128	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u129	The questions I had have been answered and I don't have any new questions. Moreover, I have not gained any new insights. That is not a reproach to the Secretary of State, because he defended it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u130	You don't need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u131	I don't need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you. Is there a need for a short suspension or should we proceed immediately? We're gonna suspend briefly, then we're gonna move on. Speaking time is a maximum of ten minutes, but no one has to make use of it or talk his time; you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u133	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP. We are now working on the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. I have mentioned in the first period that much of the Netherlands has been asked in recent years. The banks have been saved and the question people are asking themselves is: are we saved? The elderly have been given a lot in the bucket, just to stick to the analogy of the older unions: the drop that overflows the bucket. Of course the coalition is trying to create something out of that bucket, we all see that. Some measures are being taken to increase the purchasing power of older people, on average, by 0.5%. More could have been done there; 2.5%, for example, came from the SP transfer. We can continue to talk about this endlessly: who said what in his election programme? There is no party here that says: well, you had a measure, I agree with that measure, so I agree with the whole electoral programme. What matters now is to assess what this bill means to people. What it does with trust in the government. And I don't think it's gonna look so good. Last Friday, I had to let the hearing work on me, members of the SP Group asked for an overview of the situation of people who have almost or completely repaid their mortgage on the following points: the property position of these people, the value of the home, the composition of the household, the age, the income position, the municipal policy with their own payments. There's no answer to that. It may also be a very tricky matrix. As far as the ratio of income is concerned, we first got a table in which it was 977.000 incomes and now, when it comes to the total of households, it is 924,000. That's $33,000 coming off. Did we have anything else to do with math? I find that complicated. Maybe that's normal with the Finance Committee, but I find that complicated. Anyway, let's start from that last table. This shows clearly what happens if you have no pension and no assets: 40%. Then the Secretary of State says: I find it remarkable that those people who have only AOW and have no pension, have a high equity, above €100,000. I find that remarkable, too, but I can imagine that this includes the self-employed who have never built up a pension, who have sold their business and who thus use it for their income position. We don't know exactly what's going on and how people are being attacked. Of course you can say in the pictures: all the older people get something, some of it goes off, so some get less. That is also always the perpetual discussion in the care sector: no, we are not cutting back, there is only less. But the neighborhood nurses can feel it. I find it so incredibly complicated that I can't see through all that right now. I asked the government, is there any possibility of compensation? The batter next year or in 2019 is 24 million. That really isn't something we're gonna skip straight back on. Do I agree that the Hills Act, that deduction, no longer exists in the future? Yeah, I agree. And I would have liked to have had the opportunity to think with the government about the question: what exactly is this about? And how can we remove this unrest and displeasure, in cooperation with older people's associations, with parties here in the Chamber? Take an extra year where you'll find out better. Now I am in a position to say no to this proposal, because I cannot see it. Once before, the Chamber has experienced this. At least, which I know, because it will undoubtedly have happened sooner, take the example of the national police. Or take the pgb drawing rights. We all thought it was a good idea, from one side of the Chamber to the other, that people would no longer receive the pgb money in their accounts themselves, but that they would be entitled to a drawing right. And that became a fiasco, with great disadvantages. To this day, that has not been resolved. We didn't know what we said yes to and we weren't properly kept informed of how it went. I really think that's the tricky position I'm in right now. I've had a lot of e-mails, like everyone else here. We could say, well, this is going up a little bit, so there's going to be purchasing power. But I got an email an hour ago from someone who said: "Oh, how happy I was that my AOW went up at €11.70 per month. Finally a little air. But, oh, boy, that's how the care allowance went down. The care premium went up, too, and I'm still in the low. I was promised a little air, and yet I didn't get that air. I can understand why you can't calculate for 924,000 households what it all means after comma. I'm not asking you to. I'm just asking you to keep an eye on that feeling. And that feeling is manifest. So I'm gonna have to make a final judgment. Eighteen, no nineteen days ago, we received a bill which we say is a wise measure that you must take. But in those nineteen days, we have not been able to figure out how that strikes groups of older people and incomes that we consider important. This is different for other parties. As a result, I can only conclude that I do not know what I am saying yes to and that I recommend to my group that we vote against it tomorrow. I wish it had been different. I would have liked to have seen the opposition and the coalition working together with the elderly unions and that we could have seen how we could take such a measure in a way that everyone thinks: yes, okay, we support this. Unfortunately, we weren't given it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. This brief debate of x times ten minutes is, of course, the bitter end of an urgent task. Others have already spoken about this. I did that last night and last night. I won't say another word about it. In this second period, I also have to explain amendments which I have just received this evening. I asked for them on Monday morning because at the end of last week it was decided to continue the debate now and to vote tomorrow. I agree with what Mr Leijten said. It is not possible for us at this stage and at this time to make a proper assessment of the consequences for the people who are involved. I understand the Secretary of State's problem. With measures, whether they are good or bad, you can never give the picture to all Dutch people. But groups don't exist. Averages don't exist. Those are statistical terms, and here we're talking about people. I repeat what Mrs Leijten said: in the hearing, which was very useful and fortunately also took place, representatives of older people's organisations in particular came up with very serious examples. I referred to it earlier. It's about people with AOW and a small pension. It's about shopkeepers who sold their business and only have their own house to live on. Renting is not an option, because it is much more expensive. And they also have all kinds of other problems. Examples have been mentioned of single women, divorced or widowed, with major financial problems. This is going to be fine, for people who weren't prepared for it at all. They thought that, after their house was debt-free, they had at least a house and a roof, carefree, to better bear the burdens of the future, the higher care costs and what more they are. That's what we're talking about here. It is clear that we are opposed to this proposal. It is clear that we have advocated careful treatment which would mean that the law would at least be postponed for a year. The structural budgetary costs are almost nil. It is 24 million in the great violence of the 12 billion of this cabinet, not to mention the dividend tax. What is the problem of allowing careful consideration to continue by not putting the bill to the vote now and at least postponing it until we have a complete and better overview? We have, of course, made this as a reasonable request. This was filed at the last minute without anyone ever seeing it coming. It is then to be calculated: because it has to be put to the vote in January 19, it must now be put to the vote. I turn it around: if you want that measure, you add 15 months from the moment that careful treatment has taken place. So it shouldn't be the other way around. Finally, after many questions, it has been pointed out that the abolition of the Hills Act has an impact on the surcharges. I mentioned the sums last night. They end up in the tens of millions. So if you add up the care allowance and the old-age discount, you're going to go to the 100 million. So it's not going to be 1.1 billion, it's going to be 1.2 billion. Mr President, also because of the time, I must now proceed very quickly to explain the amendments we have tabled. These are three amendments. I am sorry to have to rob my fellow Members of this House, but they are of great importance to us. The first amendment introduces a free foot. This means that those who fall into the phasing-out scheme would at least be exempted up to €150,000, because it is possible to do so at very low rates. With the second amendment, we want to exclude existing cases. I pointed out the importance of this earlier this evening and also yesterday, because it certainly does not affect anyone who could not have known that this was hanging over him or her. With the third amendment, you freeze the current World War II value for the Hills Group. That means that you eliminate the increases in value that would occur after that. Why is that important? If you look at the increase in value for the next ten, twenty, thirty years, if the scheme is to be completed, I have mentioned Amsterdam as an example, but it is with many other examples to be expanded, then of course the consequences are much greater. All the examples mentioned by the Secretary of State are based on the existing situation and are limited to the next three years as far as tax policy is concerned. You can indeed move the Hills Act mechanically to the next 30 years, but after this cabinet there is only one thing that needs to happen in the fiscal or economic field or the numbers, the improvements that at the beginning compensate for the disadvantages, no longer apply. In the future, the disadvantage of abolishing the Hills Act will be greater, and if these compensatory measures are no longer available in the next cabinet, the old people's discount could be reduced, as we have seen before. Anyway, Mr President, I do not need to explain that further. These three amendments are therefore now before us. They make it clear that it is not possible in this way. But the essence is that we cannot support this proposal in this form and that we would at least want it to be postponed because it has not been careful enough. We want to know much more before reaching a judgment. We therefore call for a postponement of the vote and therefore a postponement of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u137	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u138	Well, Chairman, we're almost there. One more night or half a night last night, I think it was 4:45 a.m. and the abolition of the Hills Act will be adopted by the Chamber. It was a whole process. I indicated yesterday what the PvdA's assessment framework is for the current legislative proposal. First of all, it would be good to include such a large measure in the housing market in how you look at the financing of the housing market and at the additional construction of houses and how it relates to the rental market. We didn't really talk about that at all. You can't do that in three weeks. The Minister of the Interior has barely taken office. So that part was missing. The second point concerns the precise effects on people. Indeed, we have received 29 tables. I didn't even count them, but I think we got the 30th today. On the 31st, I hear the Secretary of State say now. I would like to go along with that, but the number of tables does not yet tell whether you, as a Member of Parliament, really know enough about what is happening for the crucial groups for which you want to know what is happening. I myself mentioned three cases yesterday. The Secretary of State did not go into this in detail in his reply. I asked what happened to people with AOW and a small pension. I also mentioned someone who became a widow, who lost her husband who had a decent pension. She also misses the pension, and gets the addition of the Hillen Act. I also mentioned a family situation in which a grandchild moved in, which also received childcare allowance. What does that mean for the childcare allowance? There are many other examples of people in other situations, for example around the land lease in Amsterdam. The pressure of time has really failed to look at that. Nor can it be considered whether, as is customary in many legislative proposals, compensatory measures should be taken for groups which are suffering unnecessarily and in fact unreasonablely from the measure. I do not have the illusion that if I now put an amendment here on compensation, that amendment will be adopted at some point, so I have spared myself the trouble of putting it all together, but it would have been good. There's one table I've been asking through, and it's not for nothing. That is Table 1 of the additional note following the report. I believe that is the title of that document; we have had a lot of paper exchange. I asked for this because it actually contains rather rosy effects of the abolition of the low-income Hills Act, both in 2021 and in structural terms. The State Secretary indicated that the structural effects are actually the same as the effects in 2021. I can't understand how that's possible. The government's tax measures focus mainly on bringing forward tax relief, but do not provide for this in a structural way. Question 100 shows that the CPB sees a structural burden increase of 1.2 billion for people. Then how can you present such great advantages of the cabinet's burden-sharing? I just don't get it. I came up with a thought during the debate; you'll think of something. I can only explain it if, for example, the entire austerity of the mortgage interest deduction, which was decided by the previous cabinet and for which the compensation was included in the income tax, is not included and is somewhat obscured. If it is added to the government's measures and 5 billion in between, yes, then you can compensate Hillen's 1 billion. So I'd like to know exactly what's going on. This also applies to all the other tables. Mrs Leijten has rightly asked about the power position. By the way, you can see that there are a lot of elderly people with a lot of potential who benefit from the scheme, of which we would not find it so crazy to ask for a higher contribution through the Hills Act. So that's not a problem for the PvdA at all, but you have to want to know exactly. I would like to make one comment on the table. I took offense at the first indication of the effects the cabinet gave. They all saw it on 2021. Subsequently, the Chamber asked about the effects in 2030 and 2035 and about the final picture. That was conscious, because in 2021 only 10% of the Hills Act was introduced. Then you have almost no income effects. Just now, the Secretary of State also said in his introduction that 96% of the people involved are making progress. He didn't mention a year, but it was 2021, as it turned out when I asked for it in an interruption. That's not neat. It's not really how it's supposed to be. When we talk about the Hills and the effects, we as a Chamber are not interested in the figures in 2021, if only 10% of the law has entered into. When you look at home, of course, you can barely follow it with all those numbers. I understand that, but I don't like it. I didn't like it in the first answer and I didn't like it in the introduction. I have already made a rather sharp assessment of this in the event of interruption, but I am doing it again now. I come to the third point. That's careful law enforcement. The Chamber as co-legislator is also jointly responsible for this. I agree with the Secretary of State that his officials and he have done as timely and as much as possible in the short time available. There was also a tax plan to be done, so a lot of work has been done. It's not that. It depends on the fact that the Chamber does not want to take enough time to do this legislative process properly and carefully. The Secretary of State did go along with that. Because I do disagree with the Secretary of State: I think this legislative process is really careless. I think a lot of questions are unanswered. I don't think we know exactly what the effects are. I also believe that no compensatory measures have been identified for people affected by this. There hasn't been time for that either. Many questions were asked on Friday and we received an answer on Monday. Given the amount of questions and given the time, quite a handsome answer has been given. But that doesn't mean that all the questions have been answered properly. There was just too little time for that. Usually there's a month or two in between. Then you'll find out much better. That's the way it's supposed to be with legislation. There is nothing but a political reason to want to vote on this tomorrow. There is no serious budgetary reason. There is no substantive reason. The housing market wouldn't collapse if we introduced this a year later. That's really bad. I also think that this has been pushed through by fellow Members of this House. That actually happened with 76 to 74 votes. The SGP, too, has always said in the procedural meetings: do not do this like this. This is not in keeping with the content of this proposal. This also applies to other fellow Members who have indicated that they may have been in favour of this proposal. That's not really a way to do it. I also do not recommend that colleagues do this again. You don't have to be a room, a lamb or a lion, president, especially a lapdog. Sometimes there's a bit of a whining going on here and there. You rightly wrote a letter about this saying that we should not do that anymore. As Members of Parliament, I really do not think that we should be put under pressure by tables, governmental agreements, agreements or political opportunism to push something through. I hope that doesn't happen again. I don't think that's a recipe to keep getting legislation through this Chamber successfully. Because then we're gonna have to spend a lot of nightly hours for the coalition, and that's gonna go wrong once. I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again if he is prepared to look at those specific cases where it is pinching. Can he make up for that? I don't think we can do that in half a day in a serious way. That's what I'm considering to the coalition. If that is not the case, it will be very difficult for our group to vote in favour of a legislative proposal, which in principle we are not so negative about, but whose effects we are not sufficiently aware of. Because maybe people with low incomes or people who are in a difficult situation because of what happens in family life, are wrongly put at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I'm going to see Mr. Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr. Chairman. In my introductory speech yesterday in the first term, I spoke loudly about the procedure for dealing with this bill. At the same time, I said I wouldn't say anything about it after that. So I won't do that anymore. I also said that this bill is a dilemma for my group. You could say that the content of this bill is not alien to ideas that GroenLinks has had for some time about how you could deal with taxation and your own home. At the same time, the abolition of the Hills Act does not appear in our electoral programme and it does not appear in the pass-through. As I said yesterday, in the way we deal with our own house in the accounts, you could argue that the Hills Act is a kind of final situation. We defiscalize our own house in box 1 in our election program. In the end, there is no longer a mortgage deduction, but also no home credit. This is also accompanied by, for example, a substantial increase in the AOW and other purchasing power measures. Perhaps there is the biggest difference between my group and the cabinet. My group does not think that this cabinet is sufficiently addressing inequality. People with lower incomes are making less progress than those with the highest incomes. In our program, we turn that around. Nevertheless, I appreciate that the Secretary of State and the Ministry have done their utmost to capture the effects of the Hills Act. There is still uncertainty about it and that remains a dilemma for us. The second point, I said, is that, even in the event of interruption, the uncertainty that I see in society also has something to do with the promise that politics is constantly making about its own house: we are going to stay away from it, and from now on, nothing is going to change. We have heard this all the time since the introduction of the boxing system, in every election campaign, and yet it has been dealt with again, I think in every cabinet. My group believes that since the introduction of the boxing system, we are really not alone in this; almost all fiscalists agree with us that you should look at the way you deal with your own house in the longer term. It is about finding a structural solution to the fact that for many people their own house is not an income but rather wealth, and that taxing in a certain way. Mr President, I would like to make three motions. The first motion with Mr Dijkgraaf is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that from 2013 onwards, a 100% repayment obligation applies to new loans to qualify for mortgage interest relief;]] [[whereas this repayment obligation increases the burden on people in rush hour of their lives and that there is in fact no financial or substantive reason to have to pay the full amount within 30 years;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities and consequences of limiting the repayment obligation to a residual debt of, for example, 30% of the amount borrowed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34819-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u141	This is a motion that affects one of the aspects of thinking a little more deeply about how we deal with our own house, what rules we lay down and how we deal with it in taxation. I've got two motions for us...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr Bruins on the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yes, I have a question about the motion. Is this also an immediate proposal for the abolition of the mortgage interest rate deduction, whether direct or accelerated? In your election program, you do that with the defiscalisation. Otherwise, I expect all you're doing is punching a huge financial hole. So you also want to eliminate the mortgage interest deduction in the calculation you are asking, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u144	No, I'd like an analysis from the cabinet of different variants. I think it's good to think about it. It is actually quite bizarre that we have now set a 100% repayment obligation. I don't think this is necessary. I said yesterday that I was considering making an amendment on that. The Treasury officials have been so good at making sums of money. That amendment, which is about equivalent to the motion, meant that you don't have to pay off your full mortgage in 30 years. You may retain a residual debt of 30%, but after 30 years, the mortgage interest deduction will end. In the final analysis, these figures show that the budgetary implications are rather limited. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for further consideration, especially since this has something to do with people's living expenses about their lives. Complete redemption has the crazy effect that people, if they already have high burdens, have very high housing costs in the rush hour of their lives and at the end of their lives have been relieved of their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u145	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u146	I now come to two motions which are more important to my group than the first. They are an important argument in how we look at the law in the end. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas despite the many responses and purchasing power calculations made in the treatment of the abolition of the Hills Act, there is uncertainty about possible negative income effects in specific groups of people, especially in the elderly;]] [[Whereas it is not the intention of the abolition of the Hills Act to increase inequality or to put people on low incomes in financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely whether unforeseen and undesirable consequences of the effects of the abolition of the Hills Act arise;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to compensate for these consequences in the event of any unforeseen and undesirable consequences in the next tax plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34819-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u147	As you can understand, this motion sees at the heart of the debate: what effects do we have, what effects do we not yet know, what is this cabinet going to do with it, and is there any possibility of dealing with them in a sensible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr Snels announced the importance of this motion for his group. That is why I am trying to describe it better, also for my own consideration. I assume that Mr Snels is mainly referring to sec the impact of this bill. I hear there's some references to other life events. Of course, they can always have a big impact. I find it very difficult to isolate it. Do I understand Mr Snels that he's really talking sec about knocking down? As economists we would say to each other: ceterus paribus. He is therefore referring purely to the effect of abolishing the Hills Act in 30 years. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u149	Sure, you understand. It's really about the effect-Hilling, but it could be that despite the more general statistical purchasing power figures we've seen in full width, specific groups of people that we apparently haven't gotten a good enough picture of still suffer from the abolition of the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u150	Please continue. Excuse me, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u151	I fully understand that these are not individual cases, but things that certain groups do. Mr Snels also looks at purchasing power. I also understand that he says: on the basis of the information I have now, in which I see, for example, that people with only AOW do not actually notice it, I have not yet found those groups in the current purchasing power records. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u152	No, and that actually applies to all my fellow Members in the Chamber. That is precisely why there is still uncertainty about the effects, despite the many work of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u153	Proceed with your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u154	The second motion concerns the more fundamental debate that my group has been calling for for a long time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the application of fictions in the tax system undermines people's confidence;]] [[Whereas fictions play a role both in box 3 in the capital return tax and in the tax treatment of the home in box 1;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to carry out a review of box 3, with tax being levied on the basis of actual returns;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to carry out a review of the tax treatment of its own house in this context or separately, whereby its own house could be classified not or not only as income but also as capital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34819-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State and the officials for the enormous amount of work and response. The fraction of DENK doesn't understand where the rush came from. It has already been pointed out by a number of fellow Members. We don't understand why this has to go through the Chamber in nineteen days. If you work at the Tax Office, you get fifteen and a half months for that, but the parliamentarians have to get along in nineteen days. We find that very careless. I would like to point out that yesterday we in the opposition were unable to interfere with the coalition parties. I really think that's a mistake. I find it careless, too. It is also a reason for us not to be able to agree to this law. We are quite positive about seeing if we can do this in another way. We, too, understand that half a million euros...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u156	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u157	If we have come up with a regulation that will cost the taxpayer EUR 550 to 560 million, and if in the long term it will amount to 1.1 billion or perhaps a number of billions, then we understand that we have to do it differently. We've agreed that every mortgage will be repaid in the long run. This would mean that a lot of people would be covered by this regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u158	If Mr Azarkan had wished to interrupt me, I would have been quite open to that. So that's what he could have reported. But he simply supported Mrs De Vries' proposal of order yesterday. I remember that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u159	We sat here with the chairman at the table. The order proposal that has been made was about the ten-minute speaking time. It wasn't about the interruptions. The President has said that I am in charge and I will not allow them. I think this is what happened last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u160	I just want to make something right. The order proposal was to meet until 5 p.m. yesterday. It was four o'clock then. Then you have 60 minutes and you have to share them fairly among the remaining spokesmen. That was exactly six. They all got ten minutes. That is a decision of the Chamber for which you have also voted, Mr. Azarkan. Of course I'm dealing with the interruptions. Yesterday it was just ten minutes per spokesperson. Six is 60 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u161	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I agreed to that, because I thought that was wise. I also saw that Mr Mulder was not in a position to deal with the substance of the abolition of the Hills Act. We have not spoken of interruptions and we have not voted on them. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. The second aspect that prevents us from agreeing to abolishing the Hills Act is the reliability of the government. If the government indicates that people get a certain reward if they show certain behavior, in this case the accelerated redemption, you can't say a few years later: we're pulling that away again. The last argument is about the following. How reliable is it that this will be maintained in this way over the next 30 years? We have seen a number of times that laws have been speeded up. This would mean that the transitional regime and its introduction would not be 30 years. My group does not believe that it is sufficiently stated that this is going to last. I conclude that it is impossible for us to agree to the abolition of the Hills Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you. I think there's been a persistent misunderstanding. That is why, once again, when I say that there should be no interruption, that has to do with the 60 minutes. If I were to allow interruptions, that would mean that a number of groups would not be able to speak. In those 60 minutes, I just had to give six spokesmen the space to do their story. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr President, may I respond briefly? I understand that, and I understand how you explain it. The misunderstanding was that Mr Van Weyenberg thought it could be done. In my opinion, you had clearly indicated that it could not be done. You have given your reasons for this. That's fine. But the conclusion is that we have not been able to question the coalition parties. I just think that's a mistake in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u164	Well, in the system... You voted in favour. Even Mr Van Rooijen has voted in favour. Then it stops. No, no, we're not going at a quarter to one... I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mr President, I would like to see included in the Acts that I did not vote in favour of not allowing interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u166	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u167	I've agreed to the division. That's really something else. That was my specific question. I would appreciate it if my fellow Members could complement me. We stood there at the rostrum. We voted on the distribution. You said I'm dealing with the interruptions, and you're not getting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u168	No, I didn't. If you voted in favour of Mrs Aukje de Vries' proposal, this means that there will be no interruptions. You voted for it. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder. He was already standing by. Once again, in the direction of Mr Azarkan, that is the consequence. I think it might be good to send out the Rules of Procedure again. It's a quarter to one. Mr. Ommzigt, we're not discussing procedures again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr President, I am open to any question from a colleague, even in a moment. I understand that remark very well. However, the Rules of Procedure simply state that you have an end time and that speaking time is then divided. It is then a decision by the President to allow or not to allow interruptions. The President could also have chosen to use eight minutes' speaking time and give everyone two interruptions. That decision has not been made. It's possible. But the Members of this House who are now saying something about this said so last night. That is what I want to say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you. Perhaps it also has to do with the fact that sometimes people do not accept that a decision is taken. It's possible. If a decision is taken by the majority of those who voted in favour and who opposes it, then that means that we have taken that decision with each other. Then we'll just move on to the order of the day. When these things are called into question again and again, we begin to undermine our own way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr President, it does not appear in the Rules of Procedure that there are no interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u172	Thank you. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u173	I therefore ask you and the Bureau to explain this within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u174	I would say read the Rules of Procedure very carefully. Then let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u175	Mr President, I read it yesterday, because I suspected it would be discussed. There's nothing in there about any interruptions. That is what my fellow Members have been asking for. I disagree with them on a lot of things, but at this point I have to agree with them. I ask the Bureau to make it clear to us that this is an official request if, under the current Rules of Procedure, it automatically means that interruptions are not allowed. That question stands and I'm just asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u176	Go ahead, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u177	I think it's a nice discussion. It does fit a bit with the level of handling of this bill. By the way, the comments made by my colleague Omtzigt now actually fit a quote by Cicero. Let us then put that to Mr Omtzigt, because Cicero said: the lowest of the villains is the hypocrite who takes care at the time when he is the most deceptive, the most virtuous. Because last night Mr Omtzig sounded very different. And what a failure for the coalition. Before the debate, let the opposition speak freely in this Chamber, but within two hours the same opposition is silenced! If you take the whole process together, summary: it is a bad proposal, a decline of the coalition and a very undemocratic process. Just now there was this interruption. Or take the examples given here tonight, the figures, tables and info: we got them at 11.10 p.m. tonight. Not exactly careful. And all at the expense of people who do what the government has asked them to do nicely, people who are really desperate right now. A fine on good behavior, how do you make it up? Mr. Chairman. The good citizen must be caught, stripped, squeezed out, because the care of asylum seekers and status holders and the tax benefits for abroad must be paid. We distance ourselves from this unscrupulous and impudent course of action of this coalition. And as I said earlier today, the coalition can try to silence the PVV through dirty tricks, but they're not gonna succeed. The PVV will continue to fight for the rights of Dutch people. The PVV will continue to stand up for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the further answers we have received. There were a lot of questions asked last night. Many fellow Members have talked about the content of the legislative proposal. Some would have taken more time than others. As far as my group is concerned, the conclusion remains that we can achieve the two objectives of the Hills Act in a different way. We have now secured the promotion of redemption, for which the Hills Act was once intended, because it is a requirement to qualify for the mortgage interest deduction. We also see that people with a large mortgage, who are therefore vulnerable to their income, are hardly stimulated by the Hills Act. If we don't do something, about everyone with a mortgage will be eligible for the Hills Act after 20 to 25 years. That was never the intention and has a huge cost effect. The second objective, income policy, is better achieved in a different way. We've seen a lot of sums, and you can never let every individual figure out, but we now have over 30 tables. I am also thinking of previous treatments - I am thinking, for example, of the law that would reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction in a very long term period.... If I look at what figures are now, and yes, you never have every individual in the picture, I think there is a lot. I therefore believe that this measure is sensible and justified, a measure which, as far as I am concerned, is appropriate to take now. I see Mrs Leijten standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u180	Yeah, me too. Mrs Leijten, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u181	Sometimes I'm standing by the interrupting microphone and I don't get it. Now I'm three meters away and I'm gonna get it. I have a question for D66 anyway. Why in this way and why at this speed? It does something to potential partners in the Chamber, but we're gonna let that rest for a while. It also does something with people in society, with the uncertainty of people. It certainly does something for organisations such as the old-age associations, which have a support group of hundreds of thousands of older people, which are sending out a signal. Why is D66, part of this coalition, no longer seeking room to discuss this with each other, to keep this under review, to do the introduction a year later and to find the 24 million elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u182	I've heard a lot about the 24 million. Of this, the Secretary of State has said that this effect will last about 30 years and that it will be 900 million, I think, cumulatively, but that is just the opposite. I admit that we are doing this legal process under pressure of time, because we think it is important that the Tax Administration should have the time needed to implement the measure. At the same time, I see that we have had a lot of exchanges at that time. I see a lot of examples. For example, we heard that if one of the two pensioners has less than €4,700 supplementary pensions in 2021, people will not be affected, in any way, by the phasing out of the Hills Act. I think it's important that we've got that figured out. Fortunately, these people benefit from the higher old age discount and the higher tax discount. I think that's wise. I think that's useful. I think we have a lot of images that really put some of the fear stories I've heard in this Chamber in perspective, which show that the vast majority of people are making significant progress in 2021. It is a little faint, but if you had supported the measure, you would have done it at once. Even then you can see that the purchasing power effects are extremely limited. Then you can choose not to take this measure. Everyone can use their own arguments for that. Apart from the fact that I think it is also sensible in substance, also given the developments, that you now have to pay off, I think that this treatment has shown that this measure is very good to do, even when it comes to income effects. At least in the first few years there have been very significant benefits, particularly for low-income people, who are not even affected by this measure for those with a very small supplementary pension or perhaps without a supplementary pension. I think that's an important gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u183	Refer to the SP election programme on a measure, of course. Mr Van Weyenberg could also take over the entire election programme of the SP, because then you will have everything we suggested. Well, that was a bit of a thing. I said in second term: we can continue to point that out, but you also have to look at what this is doing now. I have not been able to convince myself in that short time, while we believe that it is wise to do so for the longer term. That 24 million a year will add up if you don't. A year's delay would not be the problem, certainly not in the light of 1.4 billion dividend taxes. These are, of course, the greats that are opposed to each other. But I asked for something else. You can see there's a lot of unrest and there's a lot of worry. We have had a hearing, also with advocates who said: you would not do this in the short term, that affects the reliability of the government. The reliability!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u184	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u185	Why is there no way to phase out this phase-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u186	And yet, with respect for Mrs Leijten, she has made her own assessment of the debate, which has shown that the income effects of that abolition are very limited. For some groups with a very small pension or without a supplementary pension, it is even absent. There's a lot on the other side. I hope that you will also tell that story with me, regardless of whether you support it, Mrs Leijten, and that we will stick to those facts. Where people have concerns, I want to take them seriously. But I also think it's our job to keep telling the whole story. And yes, that it is careless in terms of total speed, I still find and rightly... Mrs. Leijten, you had a very different programme than D66. While we do this in 30 years, you do it in one go. Just because you tell me it's carelessly fast, I just can't quite place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u187	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u188	Then the entire SP election programme must be implemented, and it does not seem to me that this coalition is going to do so. I mean, we can keep zooming out on that. I also said in my term that I would have liked to look further. I am getting a table today which contains information that I asked for earlier, which is also relevant to look at even further. You say that you have all kinds of compensatory measures and that this will reduce the impact. These people may as well say: we get less, because there is something else. Less than that, the whole discussion. What matters to me is that I don't understand, really don't understand, that D66, CDA, VVD and Christian Union want to do this in twenty days, in twenty days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u189	I see that there has been a debate on this during the debate on the declaration of government and in the General Financial Reviews. In the WHO on the Tax Plan, it came along. I see a debate now. I see two rounds of questions. Moreover, I believe that my group itself has already asked questions about this in the round of questions on the Tax Plan. I see a hearing and I see a separate law. All things that were considered important by you, and rightly so, by me. Then we do it, and frankly, I have a problem with some of the images. Every time this Secretary of State puts things into perspective with figures, the picture is: yes, but I'm afraid it has very big consequences. In fact, I do not think there is much listening to all the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u190	I'm going to put a bit of a trial question to D66, also because she always likes to ask trial questions herself. Mr Van Weyenberg's group leader is a bit like the oil man of the Chamber. He always wants to be. I wonder why D66 has done so, where from Forum for Democracy to SP, GroenLinks, Mr Van Rooijen, the PvdA and the SGP said: don't do that and take your time, this is about big money and this is big politics. Why have you been so supportive of this process, with two roll-call votes in committees and I know what? Why did you do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u191	Those roll-call votes were requested by the opposition parties, in my knowledge, at least the first two out of three, to stop the legal proceedings. So let's tell the whole history.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u192	That has never happened in the Finance Committee for the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u193	That's what I was gonna say. I have been on the Committee on Social Affairs, and there the coalition leaders have managed to close ranks. That's the way it goes sometimes. I sincerely believe that we are doing this carefully. I also think that the concerns about the process have been well listened to. I'll admit this is fast. But we have a trial with a hearing, which I was able to prepare together with Mr Van Rooijen. We cut the law, which many of you said, "Get it out of the Tax Plan." I really think we did. And yes, I do have ambition to introduce this measure because I think it is a sensible measure. That, by the way, is something you agreed with, just as isolated. Because you too abolished the Hills Act in your election program in ten years. So yes, I want to get to work on this measure. I think we've done it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u194	Oh, it's ambition. Yeah, it's so hard for me. I find it almost unbelievable. What's the real reason? You can say you thought it was careful, but we had the filibuster experiment here. You really brought that on yourself. I didn't participate. The PvdA didn't participate. I just tried to ask questions in the written rounds, as good and as angry as that went, within 12 hours of a hearing, without being able to call professors myself at that time. I've been trying to do all that. Why did you not just give me, as well as Mr Snels, Mrs Leijten and other colleagues, decent and normal time to deal with the law as it deserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u195	I really think that we have paid a great deal of attention to it here in the thoroughness. I have heard Mr Omtzigt say this before during this legal process. Was it in a short space of time? Yes. I'll admit it right away. By the way, I say in all friendship to Mr Van Rooijen that I do not think his enthusiasm would have been greater if we had dealt with this law last year. Mr Nijboer just referred to Mr Van Rooijen. Mr Van Rooijen is opposed to this measure and is opposed to the parliamentary instruments. Although I disagree with him and disagree with many of his arguments expressed yesterday, I must say that he has done so with conviction and passion. I respect that. He spent four and a half hours discussing the contents of the bill yesterday. That's why no one tried to restrain him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u196	I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg what he thinks of the statement that the great relief that has been brought forward for this short period totally obscures the great effect, in the long term, of the phasing out of the Hills Act. The next three years there will be a big tax cut for everyone. It also benefits those who suffer from the Hills Act. The first two or three years are very small drops, but in 10, 20, 30 years it will be a huge water mass. You cannot compare the large tax reduction for the next three years with the small droplets in the first three years after the abolition of the Hills Act, if you know that the ten, twenty, thirtyfold effect then occurs at a time when there is no such relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u197	And now the question to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u198	Does he understand what I'm saying? I would add that that 30 years is not a guarantee at all. The Secretary of State said the same thing. That could be 20 and 10 years. So it'll be an avalanche in ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u199	I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for this question, because this question implies that in a number of years' time the reduction in the burden that we are now giving, for example the higher old age discount and the lower rates, will disappear. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is what my fellow Members are right to say. That means that the relief is just there. Those lower rates will soon be in place and they will remain in the path over the next few decades. Mr Van Rooijen also sees large pluses in the sums up to 2048. I am going to check whether this kind of sum has been passed on at purchasing power level in previous legislative proposals when the previous cabinet took action. I have my suspicions of what I will find then, or above all what I will not find. It really is a misconception, and I would like to remove it, that after a few years there are suddenly major burdens for people. No, there was a basic path. That's what we're bringing forward. That means you get the money sooner, but you keep it. Then I see, and I will just take an example for Mr Van Rooijen, that an AOW pensioner with €10,000 supplementary pension, a partner with only AOW and a home of €250,000, even in 2048 still sees that €678 income progress. In sums made by the cabinet, in which we would abolish the Hills Act at once, we do not do that as a coalition; the cabinet does not implement it.I still see that the purchasing power effects are extremely moderate and mitigated by policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u200	We are now judging by the figures given by the cabinet for the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u201	No, 2048.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u202	There is a huge relief in that total obscures the long-term effect of the abolition of the Hills Act. That is what we are now judging. Not to mention that I dare to say that 30 years will never last 30 years. The Secretary of State didn't give that guarantee either. There's no one to give it to. I have to take this proposal into account in my consideration of this decision, that a footnote could bring it back to 20 years and ten years. Then the effects are dramatic. Everything is eclipsed by the great load relief that is now in it with just a tiny drop of the introduction of the Hills Act. That's what people feel flawless about. It is said: you will not notice at all for the time being, because we will smear it out in 30 years' time; you will also get a higher old age discount and so on. I'm not saying it's going down. I am just saying that the burden of abolishing the Hills Act is increasing, while the level remains the same after 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u203	I congratulated Mr Van Rooijen on a number of points. Now I'm going to make one very critical comment. This kind of scaremongering does not adorn Mr Van Rooijen. The sums I just quoted and showed to the cabinet were in 2048. Then you can see that in contrast to an effect, which is indeed greater than the effect over one or two years, there is still an average much greater reduction in the burden of the current cabinet alone. So I call on Mr Van Rooijen, in his fight against this measure, that is his right not to frighten people by magical figures, to leave out the pluses for people and to mirror all kinds of burdens and hell and damnation. It doesn't come from the numbers. Mr Van Rooijen really does not need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u204	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u205	Then let me make it even simpler late in the evening. The fiscal measures that have been taken are for all Dutch people: old, young, etc. My point is that the Hills Act just invaded there a few weeks ago. They said, "Well, that's what we're gonna do, 'cause that's what we're gonna do. But it has not been realized that this affects a limited group in isolation, and that is mainly the elderly. That is what this is all about, and that is why we are against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u206	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u207	Here an image is sketched as if elderly people are being caught here secretly. The Secretary of State was rightly keen on this in his first term and I am also a little keen on it. I am keen on this because it is not true and because it is carefully embedded in a total package of pluses, not only in the short term but also when this measure is fully implemented. I think he's a very good defender. I think he's wise. And he's gonna be hitting today's mortgage owners in the future, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u208	I would like to ask whether my colleague was present at the previous debate, because in it the Secretary of State said that there was no reduction of charges but an increase of 1.2 billion in structural terms. I'm still assuming that... er...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mr Van Weyenberg, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u210	Yeah, that one too, but I still assume that the coalition parties are behind those statements by the Secretary of State. Can Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that, on top of that structural increase of 1.2 billion, the burden of abolishing the Hills Act will be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u211	I don't think I can totally follow this math. I note that the impact of government policy on citizens is about 6 billion relief, of which 1 billion are expenditure measures again, more childcare payments, for example. If I just look at the income results, all of which have been calculated at the request of the Chamber, of ours, also by the Nibud, then I see that everyone except four is making progress. Those who did not, were the groups with a higher supplementary pension, which unfortunately the poor situation of pension funds is responsible for. And yes, those purchasing power figures for the coming years don't lie. And the numbers of the Secretary of State for the next few decades don't lie. And when it comes to the future, we live in a democracy. In four years' time, voters in this country will be able to vote again, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u212	That's a lot of words, but I'm repeating a statement from the Secretary of State of the Republic what is it? Three or four hours ago: under the line, there is a structural burden increase of 1.2 billion. And I note that that is where the money from abolishing the Hills Act comes in. Together, that doesn't make things any more pleasant. That's not a difficult calculation. That's two numbers. Even you must be able to calculate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u213	That's a difficult calculation. I am also pleased that we hear a substantive argument from Mr Mulder. After an hour and a half of the story of yesterday's Greek history, that is another change. But the conclusion is that Hillen was just in the numbers from the starting note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you. Today, in the Chamber-wide arrangement, the opposition was asked to give the opportunity to question the coalition, hence that space. I only miss Mr Azarkan, who had a problem with that. I call Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated in my first term that this is certainly not an easy measure for the VVD. We also notice, of course, that this leads to uncertainty among people. I therefore think it is right that we should also indicate what other measures we are taking. I think it's important to make it clear. In the past period we have talked very extensively with each other. A great deal of information has been exchanged and given by the Secretary of State and the Department, which, of course, has had quite a job on this. For us, we are looking at the overall package. We're making an integral assessment. It's not good to focus on just one measure each time. Other parties have also indicated this. They have also looked at the overall package in their election programme. I therefore think it is reasonable that we should also look at the overall package presented by this cabinet. In that overall package and that overall consideration, the VVD considers this to be a justifiable measure. I am well aware that it is always difficult for people to see what specific consequences this has for each individual. Any action taken by the government affects people and creates uncertainty. If we support this measure, we must tell the whole story, including compensatory measures. I will not name them all here again, because we have done so a few times already. The VVD will therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u217	I was the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u218	Yeah, this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u219	I asked the Secretary of State earlier in this debate. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that part of the uncertainty is due not only to the purchasing power effects and the uncertainty about them, but also to the promises made earlier, for example by your party?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u220	When we entered these elections, we made it clear that we are not making promises, but are committed to a number of measures. We are well aware that we do not have a majority at the moment, and we are also very aware of the need for compromise. Those are not always easy compromises. Sometimes you have to make a difference and take measures that might not have been in your own election program. We think it is important that you look at the measures that are put in addition, so that you can look at the total purchasing power plates of people and make sure that they ultimately have more to spend in their wallets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u221	I have put a second question to the Secretary of State. What does Mrs De Vries say when she walks on the market and asks a random passerby: Mrs De Vries, can I trust that this gradual phasing-out of the Hills Act will last for 30 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u222	I always find it a little easy to ask for guarantees. The cabinet has been clear about this. I want to be clear about this, too. We will keep this measure in place for the coming period. But it would be a false guarantee if you said: this is for eternity. We're here to take some measures. If the SP gets the majority, it might choose to abolish the measure at once. I hope, of course, that this never happens. I think you give false security to people when you say: I give you guarantee for eternity. This is also in line with my first story on the electoral programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u223	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u224	So Mrs De Vries' answer to this lady or gentleman would be: no, I can't promise you that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u225	To be honest, it's kind of lame to me. Because I think that also GroenLinks, if she had formed a coalition with, for example, a number of parties that are now here, should say the same thing. So I don't think it's fair to say, "God, it's weird that you can't promise that right now." If we get 76 seats, I can promise you that for the period up to 2048. I would agree with that, but everyone here also knows that this is not the case. The Netherlands is a country of coalitions and everyone knows that we have to compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u226	In fact, once the water is under the bridge, it usually goes faster in the long run. Anyway, that's not what my question is about. Mrs De Vries made no secret that the VVD did not come up with this measure. It would also have an advantage, in terms of content, to postpone it a little. Well, at least the trouble goes into later. At least the phasing-out period has been extended after some resistance, but you could also allow it to start later. Why did Mrs De Vries not seize the opportunity that was wide here to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u227	I have been very clear: it is not an easy measure, but I have also made it very clear that I think he can be defended in the overall package. Like the VVD, I am not in politics that we say: oh, there comes a mouse hole, we go through it. No, we simply think that the whole package is justifiable. And I think you should stand for it, and that's why we will support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u228	It wasn't a mouse hole: the gate was wide open. Everyone wanted it here. Mrs De Vries was not in favour of it. So I really don't get it. Mr. Bruins isn't the kind of guy who pushes it like that, I'd say. The only motivation I can think of is: bite-slick-away, and then we're done with all those miserable discussions about Hillen. You'll have to contradict me if you're not. But I think that is the worst reason you can have as a parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u229	I don't think it's a bite-slick-away. I think that we have had the debate on this for a very long time and that, despite the pressure on time, we have had an extensive procedure. We have been able to talk about it several times. We've had two written rounds. And then I find it a little too easy to say: bite-slick-away. I don't think that's a very honest accusation of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u230	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u231	A normal legislative process often takes a year and a half, with written rounds, hearings, people you can call. So three weeks is really a bite-slick-away. Mrs De Vries knows that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr President, I would like to comment on that. I think that's too easy. We've had two written rounds. We have talked extensively with each other, and there have been very, very many questions asked and also answered. There's been a lot of information about it. I think we were actually going to talk about this Tax Plan here last week. We also wanted to give room for a hearing. So I don't think you can say that's a bite-slick-away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u234	I have the same question to Mrs De Vries as to Mr Van Weyenberg. There has been a comprehensive package, mainly reducing the burden on all citizens. In addition, for a small group of people, however, 1 million people, but a small part of the total is added to a separate case with a considerable burden increase, albeit not in the beginning but certainly in the long term. What is happening in this whole debate last week and also tonight is that some coalition parties say: you have to look at it widely, we are looking at the overall package. I'm not looking at the whole package. That looks pretty reasonable, at least for these few years. After that, nobody knows. I'm looking at this package isolated that's disastrous for that group, young and old, 1 million people. Then you don't have to look at the drops of the first three years either, but at what it has in 10 years, maybe 20 years, but not 30 years for dramatic consequences. We've seen those sums. We know exactly what the final effect of the Hills Act is: that is the burden increase for this group alone. And then you shouldn't put that in, mess around in a total package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u235	Of course, we always take measures that may affect specific groups. I'm well aware of that. I also realize that this is mainly about older people. I therefore think it is important to mention that we are also taking other measures that apply specifically to that group, such as the elderly discount. There are also a number of specific measures aimed at homeowners. That's what we're talking about here. We're gonna lower the apartment forfait. These are specific measures that must be included in the overall package. I think it's too easy to say that we're only looking at those four years. Mr Van Weyenberg has already indicated this. There have indeed been given a look at 2048. There has also been a very specific look at people with AOW, only AOW or AOW with a small pension. I think you should really tell that whole story. Otherwise, you will present a kind of distorted picture of the measures that are now in place. I think that does not help people's insecurity, nor does it contribute to the way in which politics makes its decisions. We are taking a comprehensive package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u236	Let me make the question even simpler and more direct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u237	And shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u238	If the elderly discount or any other non-elderly tax discount is increased, it has been decided. Apart from that, it has been decided that 1 million people are not only elderly but more than half of them have been subject to a separate measure. Then you should not use the increase in an elderly discount as an argument to say: but then the abolition of the Hills Act is quite justifiable. That's not true at all. That decision was made on good grounds. That has nothing to do with the abolition of the Hills Act. You should not say: we can abolish the Hills Act, because we have increased the old-age discount. That's turning the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u239	I find it very difficult when people say: you have only decided on this measure here, and a very large package of measures has also been decided. You say that we have decided on this phase-out of the Hills Act without even looking at that other story. There are always measures aimed at specific groups. For example, the more gradual phasing out of the rental fee is also a very specific measure, because we do not think it fair that if you earn €1 more, you can lose that rental fee in its entirety. This also applies to the more gradual phasing out of, for example, the elderly discount. I think you're very happy about that. We are also delighted that these measures are now being taken. But I find it really too easy to say that only that measure has been decided. No, the four parties decided on the overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u240	I understand this, but sometimes something is happening in society under the influence of the speed of action. There's a discussion going on. There is a feeling of unease, also towards politics, and of untrustworthyness. Has that feeling taken any account of the VVD? Has the VVD considered making that feeling a decisive factor in the choice between engaging in dialogue with the opposition and with older people's associations to see if it might be even better, and doing it all the same, as Mr Nijboer says?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u241	Of course, signals from society have also been listened to. I think that the coalition parties have decided, together with all of them, to eventually opt for phase-out in 30 years instead of 20 years. I think we did listen to that. I consider the measure to be justified. I can explain him, too. I can explain him in that whole package. That is why I think it is justified that we are taking this measure now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u242	The total package now becomes standard defense. That is also true when it comes to abolishing the dividend tax. They asked: where exactly does it help? The answer was: no, it is about the overall package for the investment climate. Yesterday, I spoke to someone from the coalition here behind the scenes. He said: no matter what happens and no matter how long there is talk, the abolition of the Hills Act will go through this week. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u243	Again, I repeat: we agreed that we would like to introduce this measure on 1 January 2019. In doing so, we have also weighed up the measures to be taken at a different time when it comes to phasing out. As far as I am concerned, it is also a fact that the Tax Administration needs 15 months to implement this measure. We think it is important that you also look at the implementation by the Tax Administration. Then we are prepared to take all that action at the moment rather than postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u244	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u245	So we have to vote on it so quickly. As Mr Nijboer said, "Hap-slik-way'. But if it becomes clear in February, March or April that all kinds of things are happening that are not actually desirable, is there room for the VVD to say: we are going to introduce later and we are going to look at the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u246	I'm not sure where Mrs Leijten is going with this. This measure will not be effective until 1 January 2019. I find it a little complicated to talk about the first quarter of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u247	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u248	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by thanking everyone. I would like to thank the messengers and the Registry, as well as the people who served us in the restaurant for 48 hours around the clock. It's great these people have been so supportive. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his stamina and my fellow Members for the time we have been able to spend on this bill. It's clear that the property, the housing market, is an emotional subject. It is good that we have spent so much time together, now that it is so hard on the stomach of parties in the Chamber. In my initial contribution, I made it clear that when the Hills Act was introduced, the Christian Union was already opposed. We have already seen that it was an ineffective measure. At that time, I argued that the tax system is becoming a bit more equitable now that we are abolishing the subsidy. For 14 years, people have benefited from this subsidy, which turned out not to do what they had to do, namely to promote redemption. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the elders are improving. The Secretary of State has made that clear. Mrs Leijten also mentioned this in the second term. I am also glad that the gap between buyers and tenants is getting smaller. People with a rental house, who just have a savings box in the bank, are treated a bit more fairly now that the Hills Act is abolished, if tomorrow turns out to be a majority. I am also pleased that older people with a small grant will not really notice much or nothing about abolishing the Hills Act. And I'm glad that this cabinet is bringing down the home forfait, which makes the effect even smaller over so many years, when people start to notice it. However, I do think it is important that Parliament should continue to periodically review the desired and undesirable effects of the tax treatment of housing. The opposition has rightly pointed to rising World Trade Organisation values and the housing market in Amsterdam. We really need to be careful that we do not continue to treat the property as a property that you can freely spend, but partly as a property and partly as something to live in. Money in stones isn't just money you can spend. I think that is a fair warning from the opposition. So let us periodically look at that so that all desired and unwanted effects on the retina are present in this Parliament. In fact, I already look forward to having completed my and my generation, in many, many years' time, clearing our mortgage, and that the only living burden I have left is that detestable private house forfait. I'm gonna get so much better when I'm finally done paying off my mortgage, I'm gonna take the house for granted. It's my generation that's cut off bad mortgages, who's been too greedy and wanting to borrow too much money. And it is also my generation that will be on the blisters of abolishing the Hills Act. But you'll get better once your loan is paid off. I'm gonna finish off with the redemption, because we're talking about redemption from a promise. Or is it called something else? Delivering a promise. That's what I'm doing to the hero of this debate. That is the man who was the most fit of all of us: Mr Van Rooijen. Because at the very beginning, I once said "the Hillen Law." Then Mr. Van Rooijen asked the interrupting microphone: Mr. Bruins, why do you call that "the Hillen Law"? I can reassure Mr Van Rooijen: it was not meant to be derogatory. I have three reasons why, even at the end of this debate, I called it 'the Hillen Act'. First of all, it was really a little law. If I do, it was two pages, with over four pages of explanatory statement. It was a law. But you can never be derogatory about an initiative law, because that's a huge job. There was a second reason. It is quite common in Dutch parliamentary history that we call something a law. I remind Mr Van Rooijen of the Children's Act of Van Houten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u249	1918 or something, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u250	An authoritative work by the historian Willemien Schenkeveld describes how this very first social law of industrializing Netherlands came about. In that book Schenkeveld also describes that only a few people know the small effect of the Children's Law of Van Houten and the developments that were still needed to reach the end of child labour in the Netherlands. The Children's Law thus proved to be a little ineffective measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u251	The law is of 1874. I'd like to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u252	1874. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the Acts. The Children's Law proved to be a rather ineffective measure, and so is the law of Hilling. It was meant to be a financial incentive to pay off, but unfortunately that incentive did not work. Because if you're just starting to pay off, your debt is so great that the subsidy advantage that the Hillen Law gives is infinitely far away in time. In the case of the Hillen Act, therefore, all kinds of other measures were needed, such as the compulsory repayment of the mortgage, to finally put an end to my generation's lack of economy. Thirdly, I call it "the Hillen Law' because the financial advantage that the law gives will soon have existed from 2005 to 2018. Since 1893, when the Capital Tax Act 1892 was introduced, the Netherlands already has a kind of private house forfait. So, so I say to Mr. Van Rooijen, we could without Hillen between 1893 and 2005. This subsidy did exist between 2005 and 2018. And now that we've taken more effective measures, we're gonna have to do it again without Hillen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u253	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u254	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, the officials and, above all, the staff of the Chamber for the last period. Mr. Chairman. For a moment, I've been tormenting my memory to see if this is the longest debate I've ever had. In my view, this is the second longest debate, following the debate on the Health Insurance Act. But the new system of the Health Insurance Act is still a degree more complicated than the law before us today. Mr Bruins already referred to that. However, it is important that we have discussed this for a long time. It's about your own place. In addition to retirement, this is one of the most important elements that people acquire in their lives. You have to handle that very carefully. We think it is important to encourage the ownership of our own homes. That's why we have the mortgage interest deduction. We also think it is important that it is not just seen as an asset. I have already indicated that even after the full implementation of the Hills Act, the tax on own homes is about a factor six lower than that on free capital. That consideration is being made very consciously. You can't just eat rocks. That is why we have looked very carefully at all the income effects. I took a look. I haven't been able to find a law asking for more income records than this one. I have also deliberately asked for a number of standard examples. Those were examples of people who don't have AOW. Of course, I knew you wouldn't pay income tax in the Netherlands if you had only AOW. So if you have an addition, you don't cost anything extra in income tax. You're gonna get a little less care allowance at the most. Perhaps that is good to know for those who think that pensioners in the Netherlands pay an enormous amount of income tax. A couple of whom both have an AOW benefit and both have a pension of €4,700 in 2021, pays €0 income tax in the Netherlands. Then you come close to income of €29,000. I do not know of any other country in the world that tax pensioners so low at that level. It is good news that we can do that, because that means that in the Netherlands we also have one of the lowest rates of poverty among older people in the world. This also means that all those people who fall into it, one of whom has a supplementary pension of less than €4,700, are not affected by the present bill in their income tax, but may be affected by the supplement. I'm just saying that in all honesty. We also saw the examples we saw about income differences from around €15 to €20 per year that this is increasing. They do not fall within the scope of other measures we are taking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u255	Were you surprised by the figures for the AOWPs with a pension of up to €1,100 or up to €1,900 in 2021 and €4,700 for a couple?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u256	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u257	You kind of tweeted along with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u258	Hm-hm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u259	Did you have them when he spoke them out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u260	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u261	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u262	Okay, you didn't already have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u263	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u264	Okay. We know you as a very fast tweeter. You tweeted along.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u265	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u266	I understand very well that Mr Omtzigt tweets, because of course he also wants to reassure people. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u267	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u268	But why wasn't that list included in the answers to all the questions we asked? What do you think that wasn't there for? Why should this be preserved until this debate, when there is so much unrest in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u269	I believe that the question of where the silvering limit is this year has been asked by Mr Van Rooijen and by me in the first round of the Tax Plan. So where that border was in 2017/2018, i.e. around €3,500, I knew quite precisely. I knew that because I had asked exactly that question to the Secretary of State. I knew it would increase by about €1,000 over the period because of the increase in the elderly discount and the increase in the general tax discount. I didn't know exactly until €100, but it was clear to me from the start that for couples, one of whom remains below that €4,700 supplementary pension in 2021, this addition doesn't generate any additional income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u270	I don't think that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u271	Look, Mr President, it is said here: sufficient time to prepare, to ask for everything, to table 29, and then I will have another table this evening which talks about fewer households than has been said before. I asked Mr Omtzigt if he knew those figures because he was tweeting along. He was tweeting because he got that information, I believe. But it hasn't been said before. If you just look at those households, there is also those households that are now said not to be subject to the Hills Act, which are related to the billing of the Hills Act. Why has this uncertainty been created in recent times, in all these tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u272	Yes. What table are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u273	I think you mean this one, Mrs Leijten. This one was handed out tonight. You've got him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u274	You mean tonight's?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u275	Look for it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u276	Tonight's table is an extension of the table 2 we received earlier, I believe, on Monday. In it is the distribution Hillen deduction to box 1 income for the tax year 2015. For example, it says that there are 232.000 people with an income below €15,000 on an annual basis, representing 23.7% of the total.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u277	Wait a minute. Where do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u278	You say these people don't suffer from Hillen at all. Then why are they in those percentages?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u279	I can't follow the table you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u280	It is so beautiful, Mr President, that it is obviously unique that information should be on the table when you are in the debate. That seems to me exactly why we are debating, but that aside. In my view, Mrs Leijten means that there are groups who, in the sums, are entitled to the Hills deduction, but do not cash this in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u281	Mrs. Leijten can tell you herself. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u282	Yes, Mr President, the problem of cashing makes it all very complicated. It asks which income group there are people who have to do with the Hills deduction. We get a very large column in which it's 100%, which it's all about all the time. It's 977,000 incomes, that's what it's called after us, and in the end it's become fewer households. Mr Omtzigt tweets along with the Secretary of State and then says that there is actually, let us say something, 30% going down. Why wasn't that communicated by the government from the start?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u283	That is a question you must ask the government. I have said from the outset in my questions and also in my first term, I know that my first term last night was at 5.30 p.m. precisely that those who have a silvering problem, as Mr Van Rooij says, cannot suffer from Hillen. At least, this applies to supplements and not to income tax. I have also said that those who fall into the first disc will soon be going to retirees to a three-disk system where the last disc will have about 19% of its value plus 20% and that these are very modest amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u284	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u285	The fact that I have to ask these questions about the technique, which figures do we have and do not have, what about the problem of cashing and do you or do you not have a problem with it? In my view, it shows exactly what happens when you have to deal with a bill under high pressure and it has not been exposed from all sides. Of course, these people lose the right to health care allowance. Maybe they also get a much higher own contribution in the municipality where they live because their income changes on paper, when they actually do not suffer from it but because of the problem of silvering there is more taxable income on paper. We don't know the consequences of that. We have asked what consequences it has for other supplements and income benefits. Those questions have not been mentioned in the report as a whole. They're just wiped out. I think that shows how we all don't know exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u286	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u287	Mr President, should I respond to that or not? I've seen a lot of questions answered. By the way, another category is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u288	You tweet that yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u289	No, there is a category where this government opts for a WMO subscription rate. If you opt for a Wmo subscription rate, this will not affect your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u290	Last point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u291	The care allowance is here. Those other surcharges were relatively small in size. I think it's about the childcare allowance and the child-related budget. That was about 10 million. This is a relatively small group with very small children and at the same time a relieved house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u292	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u293	There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u294	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u295	I think the Wmo subscription rate is about home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u296	Hm-hm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u297	We know that people at age have a lot more of their own contribution, for stair lifts and you name it all. It all sounds very good and I really think that this government has done something about the accumulation of its own contributions, but it is not everything. That's the problem. We wanted to ask about that, but in the wrong way. The Ministry can then say: we have answered, you know. That's because of the speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u298	You have made that point sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u299	I would like to ask another question in connection with Mr Omtzigt's speech. He said that older people pay little tax, even internationally. May I point out to him that the AOW is a public insurance policy? There we are, I think, soon to agree. So when you're 65, you don't pay an AOW premium anymore. That does mean you have 19%, not 38%. That's point one. Two: does Mr Omtzig recognise that the employment discount is €2,000 net higher than the elderly discount, and that the overall tax reduction for workers is over €1,000 higher than for the elderly? This means that there is net €3,000 more tax benefit for workers compared to the elderly. Those are the facts. I think we can agree on that. That explains how it is. What we are talking about tonight is that given these differences, which have been there for a long time, abolition of the Hills Act first as a drop, but then as a flood comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u300	I deliberately wanted to say that about the elderly. Here, it is constantly pretended that older people pay much more tax on the same income. The example I mentioned to you is a bit constructed, but if you both have €4,500 supplementary pension and you both have an AOW benefit, so an income of €27,000 to €28,000, then you pay €0 income tax. If you as a sole earner, the category that Mr Bruins and I are very concerned about, have €27,000 labour income, you are on a tax of around €3,000 to €4,000 in the Netherlands. You also have to support two people. The fact that it is constantly said here that older people are taxed more heavily in income tax in every way is an idea which is not entirely correct. That's what I'd like to say. The problem of purchasing power among older people is not due to higher taxes. It is the remaining indexing of pension funds. And they're there...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u301	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u302	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u303	No, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u304	We will do it later in another debate, but I would point out that when I compare workers and older people, workers have an unpaid care premium. The employer pays the care premium and it is free of charge. You have to add that tax advantage to the workers. The elderly have to pay 6% of the care premium, so it comes on top of the tax. If you add the Wul and the income-dependent care premium, it's a whole different picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u305	Even if you take it... It is right that Mr Van Rooijen should point this out. In this example, the figure is about €600. But the difference in income tax is over €3,000. I'd like to have those pictures taken by the government sometime. Here the picture is constantly displayed that these taxes are so high, but as Mr Van Rooijen said in his own term: the elderly discount has risen from €600 to €1,400 over the past ten years. That is a considerable increase, an attempt at compensation. It has only partly been successful, because pensions have fallen so far behind, but it is not the case that a huge amount of additional tax is being paid in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u306	I will perhaps give the honourable Member the figures by e-mail this weekend. These figures are complete; I had them distributed to Mr Snel's predecessor in the Senate. I'd be happy to. Then we'll see that the numbers I just mentioned here are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u307	I would like to receive emails there I receive a lot of them but I prefer to have that debate here in public too. Just as I tabled a motion with Mr Bruins earlier today to make a comparison between one earner and two earners, I do not mind at all when comparisons are made between pensioners and workers with the same income in the tax field. There are, and we can get it. The tax burden on both will be very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u308	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u309	Mr. Chairman. I think it's wise to periodically check for effects. In most cases, the first year is a net amount of €15 per year to be paid. And we're talking about people who have a fully relieved house. That's a bit of a weight increase element in your household booklet. All the examples we received from the elderly unions often, as far as we could see, related to tenants. The difference between an owner and a tenant is the payment of rent. It is not for nothing that the SP often requires a lot of attention for the middle rent as well. Then the rent per month alone is already higher than what people would pay Hillen annually for the same property. It's those relationships. The incentive to the government and the State Secretary is to make these amounts, perhaps with a calculation model, accessible on the website. That could also take away a bit of the question of how much it is now. There is a calculation help on the website: this is my income, this is what I do, how much care allowance and how much rent allowance do I get? You can also set up a calculation help: this is the value of my house, this is the income of me and my possible partner, what does that mean for the Hills and for other taxes? Then you will see that this is a fairly balanced, regular picture. If things come out, we can see what those problems mean. But I haven't seen those problems today. I've only heard the Secretary of State mention one group: people with a house worth over a million. That's where the add-on rate is a little higher. I am pleased that our own home will be evaluated in 2020. I think it's very wise to take this with you. The review of this bill, five years later, I think will provide a little more information than an evaluation a year after entry into force, also because of the generous transitional period. Mr President, that was it. My group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u310	I have one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u311	One?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u312	Yeah, I hope to stick to one. Mr Omtzigt said: I have never actually seen a bill with so many tables, a bill that was so precise about the income effects, and we have never actually met so long about a bill; well, just about the Health Insurance Act. Would Mr Omtzigt also say that we have never done so carefully as we have done with this bill to abolish the Hills Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u313	If the question is whether I would have liked this law to have been with the Chamber two weeks earlier, so that there had been a little more time, then my answer is that it would have been my preference, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u315	One question, Mr. Van Rooijen, you've just been extended. It also applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u316	Mr. Ommzigt said it's been treated so intensively. He'd never seen so many tables and such. Does he want to give the opposition the credit for that? He fought for it to become a separate bill. Otherwise, it would've been ripped away this afternoon. That was only because the opposition as a whole, and we said first of all, we want to treat this carefully and separately, albeit far too quickly. It is not the case that the cabinet and the coalition felt that this had to be done very carefully with many tables. That only happened because we fought for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u317	So you mean the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u318	As far as I am concerned, Mr Van Rooijen deserves all the credit for all the work he has done on this bill. Edoch, I would like to point out to him that in the General Financial Reviews not only a large number of opposition parties but also the CDA asked: please make a separate bill. I'll just show you the Acts of that. Yeah, it's in the Acts. I'd prefer to have a separate bill. Then I said I didn't want seven; I didn't want the IACK. That is not a separate decision or something so big that it cannot go along with the Tax Plan. But in connection with the Hills Act, I asked for a separate bill, and that was just what the government did at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u319	That decision had already been made before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u320	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u321	From the moment one asked me if I wanted a separate bill, I said yes to that. You can see that in the Acts. That's also what I learned from the treatment of box 3. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u322	I think anyone can look it up in the Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u324	We're gonna suspend until 2.10 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u325	I give the floor to the Secretary of State. He's got plenty of room to fillibuster tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u326	I'm so looking forward to that, Mr. Chairman! However, I remember from the past that the second night is often easier when you made it late the night before. I do not know whether this applies to the handling of legislative proposals. Mr Omtzigt said that this was for him the longest or perhaps one of the longest legislative proposals. I can tell you that at least in my history here by far this is the longest. So I hope it's an outlier. We've talked a lot about this, listened to each other and sat down. I do not have so much news to add in my second term either. So I won't. The only thing I would like to emphasise now, which I also started my own kick off with, is that I see with everyone here that in process terms we all would have liked to have a little more time for question and answer, for reflection, to think for a moment, but that we have all done, for my part at least, our stinking effort to bring out all the information that was useful and necessary to discuss, despite the short time frame. I really understand that the fact that we've tried so hard can't make up for the lack of time. I do not want to pat ourselves on the shoulders that we have tried so hard. The only thing I found regrettable in the end is that there was sometimes the impression in interventions that we deliberately did not want to give information, as if we were deliberately trying to create uncertainty, as if it were only for the opposition and not for us as a cabinet that the measures were being clarified. I'm saying that because I'd be really sorry if that image existed. I have been sitting here all this time trying to clarify from my general point of view: when we debate here, I assume that it is content and that we listen to each other's arguments and are also willing to change our minds occasionally if we have to. I had hoped for a little bit of it, so I would like to mention the word 'detection' here, after what we have been trying to put forward in the last few weeks. In the end, there are also groups that say: well, we actually agree with the measure and even had it in our own electoral programme, but you have not been able to convince us of the usefulness of the measure. I find that difficult to understand; I keep saying that here. The same applies to the measure we are not convinced of the effects of the measure. If you put something into an election program, you know there's some effects there, I suppose. I've really tried to give you all the information you might need about the WWZ values, about the years and about the load relief, and all the information we thought was useful. I would like to emphasise this. That there can then be more questions about what this means for other groups or other sets, I understand, but we tried again and again, every night to put that in the picture. I do not know exactly how many tables are normally included in a bill, but I have made them more often in the past, and I really do not remember that we have ever made as many purchasing power images for different groups and different years as we have made with this bill. I know all this doesn't make up for the time, but I just wanted to say that. A little disappointment, therefore, that we have not been able to convince more parties that this measure makes sense, that it was time that we took this measure and that this law had too little effectiveness in itself to maintain. That is why this is not a measure that we are pushing through with hanging and strangling. I believe that we are doing really well with this measure, that it is important that this happens and that all kinds of inequalities in the tax system are also eliminated. So I still believe that we are doing something right here. Having said that, I think there are not so many questions left. I could go into the tables we have had before and the questions we have meant here and there, but I honestly wonder if that is going to add anything to where we are. So I have just decided not to try that anymore, if only because the understanding of myself, but also of the people around me at a quarter past two o'clock in the morning, is a little less than when we look at it at ten o'clock in the morning. Then I come to the amendments. I believe that three have been tabled, all three by Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS. The first is that in part No. 9...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u327	Yes, by Mr Van Rooijen. All three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u328	Yeah, all three of them. The amendment in part No. 9, which I have in front of me first, is briefly saying that the WWF value should be frozen for the calculation of the EWF. I do not think it surprises anyone that for that reason alone and all that we have shared here before, I should, in fact, advise against this amendment. In the amendment to item No. 12 considers whether there could still be a full right to deduct, even if after 30 years the Hills scheme has been completely abolished. For that too, if you know where this cabinet is going, I do not have to explain very much that we also advise against this amendment. Then we come to the amendment to item No. 13, in which a taxpayer retains a structural right to the Hillen deduction. For this reason alone, we also advise against this amendment. Then we still have a few motions. Should I deal with it, or should I wait for the interruption of Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u329	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u330	We're not gonna make it late. If, however, the Secretary of State has already rejected the first amendment without further explanation and if, within a minute or even half a minute, he advises on the next two, then afterwards, I think there was really no point in tabling the amendments, because they do not have any serious consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u331	It's possible. We could have exchanged all the arguments that we have already exchanged four times today, and more often in recent days, in response to the amendment. At this point in time, I thought it would make more sense to just be honest. Just look at the substance of the amendment: we are not in favour of it. That's why it was my advice to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u332	We have tabled an amendment, among other things: only at the bottom, for the WWF value up to €150,000, do not allow the phasing-out of Hillen, put that aside, those are the small win-inks and apply the Hills Act from €150,000. You're not going into it at all if that number is low or high. You just say, "I've looked at it," but I don't see anything in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u333	The short answer to this last question is: yes, I did not see anything in it. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 14 was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Dijkgraaf. I think I have already expressed my hesitations during the debate. If you don't completely pay off but have a residual debt, you don't do a lot of people any favors, consciously or unconsciously. 30% still leads to how you turn or turn things around, that people are left with a heavy debt. That's not what this cabinet prefers. We don't feel like an investigation, either. This really isn't the choice of the cabinet. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 15 the government is invited to take measures to compensate for these consequences when we see an unforeseen and undesirable consequence. In a way, I don't think you have everything... We've already said that, and we're going to evaluate it. In 2020 there will be a major evaluation of the home and we will take this into account. Moreover, I suspect that the effects after a year are not so crazy impressive and that the periodic evaluation is going to give what we want. The motion also states that there is immediately a combination: if it is detected, it must be compensated in a tax plan. I really don't like that. That's not the way we want to do it either. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u334	Perhaps for the sake of clarification, there is no time limit for nothing in case those consequences are found. That doesn't have to be next year. That could be two years from now or three years from now. But what the motion does ask is for action to be taken as soon as possible, i.e. with the next tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u335	At least it doesn't say that. We felt that it was very clear that if someone sees unforeseen consequences somewhere, they should be compensated. Period. That's kind of an uncovered check, I'd almost say. Then you could say: that's a little unexpected, go compensate for that in the next tax plan. So I really see that as a pretty strong activist approach to seeing a problem. So not the observation and that we are evaluating it, because I fully agree with Mr Snels that this is important. But the direct combination, the link with that need to be compensated, really goes too far for us and that is why we do not recommend this motion. Finally, we have one final motion, the motion in part No. 16, in which the Cabinet is asked to carry out a separate review of the tax treatment of its own house in this context, as was done in box 3. The reconnaissance to box 3 is indeed in the coalition agreement. So that's what we're gonna do. At the same time, I say that the cabinet simply does not intend to review the tax treatment of its own house and certainly not with such a structural revision method. That is why, frankly, I do not see so much in an exploration of that, because that is not what we want. So for that reason, too, I regret to have to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u337	Mr President, I wanted to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to deal with everything first. I had one final question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u338	I'll see if the Secretary of State has dealt with all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u339	Yes, I think I have now dealt with all the questions, motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u340	Okay. Mr Van Rooijen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u341	I have a question from man to man. That's what suddenly comes to mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u342	It's gonna be very intimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u343	Yes. Whether the rest of you can go away for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u344	If you look back on this debate now, has the question ever arisen to me, of course, even before that, whether perhaps we should have taken more time and dealt with this proposal later, i.e. with a year later? I'd have given you that 24 million coverage at sintering classrooms or Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u345	This man-to-man question was also a like-dan question and they always remain very complicated. We were in the situation we were in. We were all very well aware of that and I said that we were shocked, although perhaps that is the wrong word, or impressed by the enormous pace in which we had to do so. I've acknowledged that, too. At the same time, I would like to say that I have never had the impression that we have failed to provide information to the Chamber or to be careful. We have not only made a separate legislative proposal, but we have also passed it through the Council of State, we have written a further report on it and we have had two written rounds on it. There has been a hearing about it and finally we talked about it for quite a long time, last night, together and again today. 31 tables and more than 200 questions. There's gonna be a moment. If we were to include all that in this as-dan question, we would all have preferred a little more time, but I think we have done it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u346	Such a man-to-man question is then dismissed as a like-dan question. But isn't the same reasoning that you would have liked the parties in the basic position to take the structural measure to abolish the Hills Act not to ask the same question as then? Or aren't you actually referring them to those parties? In other words, what two sizes are here? Can't the government respond to a question because it's a like-dan question, but can she blame the parties for doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u347	This is quite remarkable, because even though it was a like-dan question, I simply answered it, as you heard. Should I have asked you that question as a dance? I could have done that, but in all honesty, and I indicated that tonight, I had the feeling that we could still convince each other on arguments. In the last two days I have heard only trial and complaint about those times and never a substantive response to all the tables we have laid down. I'm just kind of disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u348	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u349	The venom is often in the tail. If a secretary of state's gonna start talking about a complaining chamber, he's done something wrong. I've been very clear on the content. I received new information from this meeting. Even in the interruption debate with Mr Omtzigt it became clear that we did not see everything. And then say it's the MPs' complaint? That doesn't give a pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u350	I take back the word "complaint" immediately. That doesn't give a pass. What I was trying to tell you was that, even if there was new information in the debate, and I had done so specifically because I thought it might still help in the story, it was received with a reproach: we have only seen those figures now. While it doesn't really have to be weird that you try to present new figures in a debate every now and then. I did. Again, we have done that with the best intentions, but above all to just look at what is best based on content. I said, I've missed that in the last debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u351	I think everything has been said about this too. Finally, Mrs Leijten. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u352	Taking back the word accepted. I appreciated that we were given that table, but at the same time I found it difficult for us to oversee. I hope that will not be seen by the Secretary of State or his officials as complaining. We have a job to do. We do not have as much support as there is at the Ministry and we do not have much insight into the figures available at the Ministry. For people's representatives, asking for things like that is the only instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u353	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u354	I fully acknowledge that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u355	I understand that the Secretary of State is disappointed that it looks like he has to push this through with 76 seats. What I do not understand is that he blames the Chamber for not being substantive. That's really inappropriate. We talked for hours. I have asked many, many substantive questions myself. I'm not going to be told I'm not interested in the answers either. In Table 1, I still do not know where the 5 billion difference is coming from. The answer was also promised in the second term. I understand, and I also tolerate that the Secretary of State doesn't want to go into it, but I'm not gonna let you say I'm not interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u356	You too have made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u357	I understand Mr Nijboer's point in itself, and I have nothing against it. But what I was trying to make clear was that the moment we came up with new numbers, because we thought they were helping, it was said: this is where uncertainty is created. That was not by Mr Nijboer, I admit. What I just said was certainly not all directed at you, Mr Nijboer. We tried to give the figures and things you asked for as much as possible in the debate, despite the short period of time we had. I really think that we have tried this sincerely. Well, I guess I've made my point with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u358	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u359	I indicated in my second term that I do not at all blame the Secretary of State for the fact that a great deal of information has come to the Chamber in the time available. The central point of the Chamber, which the government has also been able to take note of, was: we need more time to do it carefully. Sometimes it's an illustration that it doesn't work out. That is important, because if we cannot see it properly, then one can expect that in legislative processes it will have consequences for the support of the Chamber, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u360	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen, we're not going through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u361	No, I have a brief question, Mr. Chairman. I acknowledge that the Secretary of State is right to say that we have done our utmost to provide all the information. That wasn't the criticism either. My only question now is, once again, man to man, why this haste?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u362	This question has been asked a few times. This question has also been answered several times. I think I must now make a decision by saying that we have come to the end of this debate. I thank the Secretary of State. I thank the Members of Parliament. In particular, I would like to thank the officials responsible for the amendment service and the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the messengers, staff of the whole Chamber, the stenography service, the clerks, the Registry and the people who have been following this debate with great emotion all these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-9.u363	We shall vote tomorrow on the motions, amendments and everything that has to do with this, both the Tax Plan and the so-called Hills Act. I'm closing the meeting.
