ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. I'm glad you're back with us. We have eight speakers from the Chamber, one of whom will make his maiden speech. The first speaker is Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group. He is already eager to speak to us. He has, like everyone else, four minutes of speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. We received a letter of fire from the prison staff. It's a huge cry for help. There's understaffing, there's too few staff, there's a huge workload and there's a high absenteeism. 600 employees a day report sick. There is less control of prohibited substances, such as drugs and cell phones. There is hardly any time for this either, which is unacceptable. The staff really runs on his gums. The staff also warns. If we do not intervene, the number of suicides and incidents of violence will increase even further. There's no guarantee of safety anymore. That's a big deal! You'll only be told as responsible Secretary of State! How could this situation have arisen in this way? Hasn't there been far too fast and far too hard cuts, which meant that so many prisons had to close and we have seen well-trained staff leave? Prison staff is very loyal staff. It is every day to make the Netherlands safer. They do very hard work, with a very difficult target group. This group of people is increasingly dealing with mental problems, addictions and limitations. The prison staff, who thus work daily with that difficult group of people, feels abandoned. The main question to the Secretary of State is: what is he going to do to improve the situation in prisons and to ensure the safety of prison staff and prisoners? We're not gonna say to the prison staff today, "Wait a minute, hold on, hopefully it won't escalate yet." I hope we are not going to hear that today! I have a few additional questions. Is it true that tasks such as cell inspection and urine checks for drug use remain in place? How often does that happen? How can it be that overtime and infringements of the Working Time Act have become daily practice? How do we react to that? And how is it actually anticipated at this increasingly difficult target group that prison staff are dealing with on a daily basis? Surely we already have an approved chamber motion by my colleague, Mr Kooiman, asking for measures to reduce the workload and ensure safety within prisons. What happened to that? A number of colleagues and I have just received a petition. The prison staff makes the following demands, to which I would like a response from the Secretary of State. 1. Infringements of the Working Time Act are reduced. 2. The absenteeism is also reduced by investigating and addressing the causes. 3. Multiple cell use is discontinued. 4. The re-import of the revenue department is carried out in the very short term. 5. Very limited security facilities will be restored in the short term. These are perfectly reasonable demands of highly motivated but concerned staff. I would like to receive an extensive response. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to hand the petition over to the Secretary of State through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u3	That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. This debate has everything to do with security. How can we guarantee the safety of the prison staff when it sees that it is increasingly brewing behind the cell doors, because once again activities have been cancelled because there are too few staff present? What room is there for prison staff to deal with prisoners in such a way that they can return safely to society after punishment? After all, fighting relapsed is preventing victims. But this debate is also about respect. The point is that we do not ask the impossible of our prison staff, so they cannot even plan a holiday or a weekend away and do too much work with too few people, with a very difficult and sometimes aggressive target group. And the point is that they have to worry about their safety, because they feel compelled to go up the hall and open cells on their own, and this absolutely has to be done with two men according to the regulations. Or they're photographed with smuggled in cell phones, then they're threatened by friends of those criminals outside. How can we let this happen? I urge the Secretary of State to recognise the problems and to stand for the safety of the prison staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Prison staff are ringing the bell. There are few staff and the workload is too high, putting pressure on the safety of the staff and the prisoners. 50PLUS believes that action should finally be taken. It's an embarrassing situation. We've been cutting back on the prison system for years. Prisons closed and many employees lost their jobs. Now the wretched fruits are reaped, with the new low point being the death of an employee of De Woenseler Gate as a result of a stabbing incident. How many alarming reports have we heard about smuggling in all sorts of cases? It was just mentioned. Cell phones, drugs and even guns just walk into prison. How is it possible? It's not a prison anymore. It's a free state. I ask the Secretary of State, how is this possible? This immediately makes the prison a completely unsafe place There are people who have shown before that they do not take it so closely with the law. What measures does the Secretary of State take to improve this situation in the short term? The police and the D.A. have denounced this before. On the one hand there is an excess capacity of allegedly 3,000 places, although do about that number of different sounds the round. On the other hand, there is a huge lack of security personnel. Moreover, the workforce is ageing, making the problems with the occupation even greater, as older staff are often no longer working night shifts. Then there are another 500 staff members for which there is no room, so we read this morning in Trouw. Why are the spread of prisoners and the spread of available staff not being better coordinated? In what way does the Secretary of State intend to take steps in this regard? Why are there so many cells empty, when thousands of people still have to serve their time? The current workforce is suffering from heavy workload, with possible failure to follow. The absenteeism is about 2 percentage points above the national average, i.e. 40%. This only makes it heavier and more unsafe. Safety procedures are coming under pressure, which literally means more and more slipping through. The establishment plan will be based on the occupancy of single cells, but this is not always in line with practice. In addition, the inmate file also ages, which can make an extra change on the workload. We have heard that there are approximately 100,000 working time violations a year. That's a lot of them. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. So we're going down in a spiral at a rapid pace. The prison becomes a breeding ground for more serious crime and violence. We have to stop that now. How many people must be killed before action is taken? Can the Secretary of State comment on the assumption that the incidents of violence, which are now piling up, are directly the result of all this? What does he think of the reports that it's brewing and that the staff doesn't feel safe? Does the Secretary of State stand up enough for his people and for the safety of all of us? We will have to invest heavily in the prison system, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and justice and thus in the security of our citizens. In prisons, we need to pay more attention to socialisation and increase the workforce. This is in the interests of the safety of staff and ultimately of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u6	We are going to listen to Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom Group. It's the first time he's been standing here. So this is a so-called maiden speech. Then I will suspend for the congratulations, if there are any people who would like to congratulate him. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is with great pleasure that I have today my maiden speech in this House of Representatives. The reason for this debate is a letter of fire from the central works council of the Judicial Institutions Department. According to the letter, the workload is extremely high. The safety of both employees and detainees is at risk. The VVD and the PvdA have made irresponsible cuts in the prison system and that is why the alarm clock is now being sounded. There is much wrong with the prison system in our country, much more wrong than is mentioned in the quoted letter. What's really going on? The weapon of repression has practically been taken away by the Dutch legislator, also under pressure from crazy European judges. The prison system that we now know in the Netherlands therefore has a very unhealthy and dangerous dynamic, a dynamic in which the guards are no longer in charge in the prisons, but the criminals. The detainees, the criminals, are protected by the law of complaint, the associated almighty supervisory committee and the so-called RSJ, the Criminal Enforcement Board. An average prison director is terrified of a tap on the fingers of this commission or of the RSJ and that fear is piercing down to the prison guards. Of course, the bad guys notice that very clearly and complain to complain about any wipes or threats. Punishments are hardly imposed or his übersoft. A smuggled phone: no less than six days in the common room. A convict getting caught with drugs, not in the common room for three days. You understand that no one is impressed by this. A resident of a nursing home may not yet light a cigarette in his own room, but a convicted criminal can smoke whole slippers in his own cell. And, as the media reports this morning, inmates demand and probably get their own grill ovens in the department because they don't like the food so much. It's crazy. Inmates often even have the right to suspend their disciplinary sentences, if they are already imposed, which means that there is no lick-on-piece. This insane situation guarantees that the prison regime has actually been taken over by the criminals. For the average convicted criminal, prison is something like Duinrell, a penaltyless holiday paradise. Anything is possible and anything is allowed! And that has to end. As we have to be boss again in our own country, the guards have to be boss again in prisons. Is the Secretary of State prepared to prosecute detainees suspected of physical or verbal violence against prison guards, in accordance with the Directive on Violence against Workers with Public Duty? The district attorney may demand a three-fold higher sentence. The Secretary of State is now leaving this prosecution behind. He abandons his associates, the prison guards, unnecessarily. I conclude with the central works council that something is chronically wrong in the Dutch prisons. The power, and therefore the authority, must return to the prison guard. Bad behavior of the prisoner must be severely punished. Respect for the guard is gone. The right to complain has been replaced by that right. That is why my group says that this right of complaint must be removed from the law. I started this contribution with the same words I uttered during my maiden speech in the First Chamber a little over two years ago. I will also end with the same words: "It is common not to be interrupted during a maiden speech. Now that it is over for me, I hope that this Chamber will make frequent use of the interrupting microphone. I hope to contribute to the prosperity and security of our beautiful country through the debate." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. A nice story! It certainly wasn't übersoft, just to use your word. Perfect on time as well: you will be the favorite of every president. 3 minutes and 59 seconds! Congratulations. I would ask you to take a seat in front of the speaker. I can congratulate you there first. After that, a few others will follow. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Markuszower. Then we will listen to the next speaker, Mrs Özütok, from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. Before I make my contribution, I would like to congratulate Mr Markuszower on his maiden speech. The involvement in this subject, as well as in others, I think, is fully present. He made that very clear. The problems in the prison system aren't from today or yesterday. Concerns about the situation in penitentiary establishments have been around for some time now. Resocialisation and reintegration opportunities have been stripped out in recent years. Inmates do not have self-evident access to education, work or meaningful daily spending. A "warm transfer," as it is called, to society, for example, by helping to find suitable accommodation and a job, is not standard either. Multi-person cell use, so two people in one cell, is about to become the standard regime. This is cheaper than regular cell capacity, but it increases the risks for the prison staff and ultimately for society as well, if an ex-con is left untreated on the street. The Netherlands is suffering from a cell surplus. That capacity is now being used to house Belgian and Norwegian prisoners. That's not ideal for Dutch prison staff. The system of rewards and penalties introduced by the previous Secretary of State makes a heavy change in the maintenance of a safe interior environment. Especially in view of the downright complex psychiatric and addiction problems of the prison population, this is a huge challenge. We are aware of that. The prison system suffers from structural overload of the prison staff. The absenteeism is still very high, which means that the available staff is running double shifts and so it is waiting for them to fall over. New staff flows out of the organization so quickly, looking for another job. How do you ensure that new staff continue to work in good working conditions? Exactly a year ago, GroenLinks signed a motion by Mr Kooiman and Mr Van Nispen to investigate previously expressed concerns and to involve the workplace in important organisational changes. The Secretary of State took over that motion at the time. The central works council of the Judicial Institutions Service is again ringing the bell. I am very curious to see how last year the Secretary of State sought consultation with the works council and what arrangements he made with the central works council, agreements which apparently remained unsatisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Markuszower. I look forward to the debates that we will undoubtedly have with each other. Our prisons are populated by criminals, people who have completely ignored the laws and regulations that we have agreed with each other, who have committed serious crimes of violence, horrible crimes of sex, or who have been active in serious illegal trafficking. The staff of the Judicial Institutions Service, as well as the staff of the TBs institutions, are confronted with these people on a daily basis. Every day they keep these criminals safe behind bars, and so they also face the risks associated with that job. In the discussions I had with the staff, for example with a number of colleagues this afternoon when we received a petition, I have heard on a regular basis that people are concerned, including about their own safety. The employees are concerned about the aggressiveness of the people for whom they have to worry, about weapons and drugs found within the walls and also about the high absenteeism that can lead to their workload. I therefore understand that the central works council made those concerns known by letter to the informant. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what measures have actually been taken to ensure that people are able to work safely at work so that they do not have to call in sick. In the meantime, how can unsafe situations be prevented if a person calls in sick? Is there not a lack of agreement on the number of employees in the workplace? In fact, I would ask for confirmation from the Secretary of State on this point. Last year, or perhaps a year and a half ago, I proposed to the Secretary of State: let us make it illegal to smuggle prohibited goods into prison. The Secretary of State responded positively. I'm thinking of the tennis ball filled with drugs or the microchip being thrown, thrown or beaten with a slap over the prison gate. If you do that, you may run the risk of being attacked for environmental dumping, but I would much rather see the person who does that be called upon and prosecuted for committing a very serious threat within the prison gate. Then the receiver, so the inmate who then receives the drugs, the microchip or that microphone. How is it punished? Does it lead to increased penalties, so, in other words, to a heavier regime? What if the prisoner gets caught with hard drugs? Is he going to be prosecuted separately for that? I would like to hear how often that is applied. Can I also assume that a serious consideration is given to whether such a figure, such a prisoner, can still qualify for early release at all? I am asking for this for a reason, because recently I received the bizarre signal that drug use was tolerated in a TBS institution. I assume that this is not the case in the prison system, so I would ask the Secretary of State just to be sure. Then the staff themselves. The staff is the eyes and ears of the prison. They must therefore feel completely free to report abuses. Anonymous declarations or declarations in the name of the prison should be possible by default. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is already the case and if not, whether he can arrange it. Finally, the rotten apple among the staff. I'll finish with that. As far as I'm concerned, it's moving to the other side of the cell door. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or corrupt staff not only standard disciplinary punishment, but also standard criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you. If you would like to stand still for a moment: there is a question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u13	It has been the VVD that has closed so many prisons in recent years and has allowed so many well-trained prison staff to leave. Look how we're standing now. We have received a petition this afternoon from the delivered prison staff and we have already received a letter of fire in which the staff indicated that there is so much understaffing, that the workload is so high and that absenteeism is such that it can no longer guarantee safety. What does this say to Mr Van Oosten? If he looks back on the past few years, is he satisfied with the policy pursued by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u14	That is a very general question on the subject we are discussing today, the safety of staff. The VVD has always said that staff safety must not be compromised. A letter was also sent last year by the Secretary of State, I think in October. This is precisely the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u15	Beautiful. You can write a letter on the theme, but you can also talk to the people, see what lives on the workplace and see if the staff is still responsible, given the difficult target group: people with addictions, people with disorders. Two men out of 24 inmates, is that even from this time of year? Is the VVD willing to look at the concerns in the petition and to follow the demands? Do we think it's normal that there are 100,000 violations of the Working Time Act? Do we think it is normal that absenteeism is almost twice as high as in other Dutch companies and organisations? What measures does the VVD today require of the Secretary of State to ensure the safety of the prison staff, I really believe, a responsibility of all of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u16	Well, Mr President, I do not think Mr Van Nispen listened to what I said. My entire contribution has been steeped in proposals that touch precisely on them, which are about staff safety. I've been talking about absenteeism among the prison staff, because that's what I'm worried about. I hear these concerns when I speak to the staff, so I ask the Secretary of State what has been done on that point. Of course, that's what keeps me busy. I'll put that question to the Secretary of State, because it's got to be better. I propose criminalising the deliberate introduction of prohibited goods into prison by people who are responsible for that unsafe situation. I ask the Secretary of State: would you please deal with those rotten apples, those few that do spoil it for the rest of the staff, very firmly? Would you not just take a disciplinary approach to it, but would you also ensure that criminal proceedings are brought? I want the staff to be able to make an anonymous report here today, so that they feel heard when they hear about abuses. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u17	These are all important questions, but Mr Van Oosten is riding around the heart of the problem, namely that there is underemployment. You can criminalize whatever you want. You can deal with the right of complaint whatever you want. But if you don't provide enough staff that can check faster, inspect and so on, then this is no good at all. I would like to see the Secretary of State's VVD also demand sufficient staff to ensure safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u18	You can't guarantee safety if you don't have enough staff. I ask the Secretary of State if any agreements on security will be broken. I assume I'm about to hear the answer "no." If you don't, we'll talk about it in more detail. You will hear me make all kinds of proposals on strengthening security, because I am concerned about that. That's what I'm told by the employees and I listen to them. I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State, who bears responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u19	Very nice, thank you very much. We are going to listen to Mrs Kuik from the Group of the Party of Labour. Oh, no, Mrs. Van Toorenburg. How could I forget you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u20	You're doing well, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my congratulations to Mr Markuszower, who gave his maiden speech today and went straight into it with a stretched leg. I'm very curious about the sequel. We are undoubtedly going to have nice debates about it. Let it be said right away that I have a little more faith in the prison staff. They're in the stands today. They are not going to let themselves go, but there are serious problems. That's what we need to talk about today. Today we are being called upon to invest quickly in this sector. They indicate that safety is seriously at stake at the moment and that action is needed. That is a difficult debate. I am simply naming it today because negotiations are currently under way. It could be that serious negotiations are taking place, including on the safety chain in the Netherlands; who knows? However, that does not relieve us today of the duty to speak about the security of our prison system, because all these people involved are now alarming us about that. The workload is unacceptable. The absenteeism can no longer be taken care of. I want to know what the Secretary of State will do about this in the short term. Not only the letter from the works council reaches us, but there are many more worrying noises. In several establishments in the south of the country, contraband has been found, a beautiful word for forbidden items: phones, drugs, etc. In these establishments the staff is under the magnifying glass. That's very worrying, but there are many more problems. The closure of establishments is still above the market, but there is much more going on. At the moment, people feel they are losing control. I hear from the works council that there are 100,000 violations of the Working Time Act and that they are simply entered in advance. It can't be. Small and medium-sized enterprises could close if that happens. I want to know from the Secretary of State what is true and what is going to happen to it. The reports of systematic infringements are worrying. I agree with what Mr Van Nispen said today. We want a response from the Secretary of State to the five points raised by the works council. I want to make a different sound today. From the letter of the works council also speaks proudly: proud of the way detention in the Netherlands was designed. We were guide country. We were on the right track to make a next professionalisation battle. A good system of promotion and degradation and more customization, we're losing that. In the meantime, we are no longer a guide country in terms of detention. No, we've become a guide country for drug trafficking. That's not a pretty legacy of VVD on V and J. Unfortunately, I have to say that. The employees also address the target group entrusted to them. It's become more and more complex. This also fits in with the image we have received of it: more and more prisoners with major problems. The municipalities and mental health care struggle with people with confused behavior. And who's gonna take care of it in the end? That's the prison staff. At the same time, these people are placed in a cell with more people. Why, Secretary of State? These concerned servants stir daily in the drain of our society. They do so with danger to themselves and to their colleagues. We have indeed recently had to lose someone in the prison system: stabbed to death by a tbs'er in De Kijvelanden. Very serious, deeply sad, and we must express our condolences today. It cannot be the case that people who are not up to their task and who may be working with too few colleagues are at risk. That is what we must address today's Secretary of State. We want to know from the Secretary of State what his answer is to the alarm clock that is sound. These people must be heard, at all points of the works council, but also at all the concerns he has already heard from us and many colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u21	Compliments of the CDA's contribution. I didn't expect anything else on this subject either. I read in an interview that Mrs Van Toorenburg said that there are too few guards on the groups and that this leads to dangerous situations. It's about a structural staff shortage. Is that also what she is calling for a solution to today from this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yes. I want the Secretary of State to take care of the insecurity. We can talk for a hundred years in any room. I don't care. The point is that the people in the line of fire every day must be safe. If they say they're not, I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what he's gonna do about it in order to do it. If that means having to include people in certain groups, it will have to be done. If the absenteeism is so high that it is no longer safe, we as a parliament, under any circumstances, must appeal to the Secretary of State. That's what I'm doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u23	That's good to hear. So the demand for the structural staff shortage to be resolved is also with the Secretary of State today. That is indeed good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u24	The questions to the Secretary of State I asked today are as follows. Is it true there's a staff shortage? Is it true that absenteeism is too high? Is it true that there are 100,000 violations that have already been entered in advance? Because then, Secretary of State, you have something to solve. That's what I said. I'm not saying in advance that people have to be there everywhere. I note that the works council has a very serious concern about safety. I must also note that the newspaper reports confirm us in that. I also hear from the prison system that there's a lot going on. This Secretary of State must not want anything other than to guarantee the safety of these people, who have to work daily with these difficult target groups, which are becoming more difficult each time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mr Markuszower. A powerful maiden speech. I look forward to the real debate we are about to have. Many of my colleagues have already said it. There's a lot going on in the prison system, in the Justice Department. This is about the workload, a high absenteeism, incidents that have taken place and, unfortunately, a fatal stabbing. Those are things that require our attention. It is good that we are having the debate on this today. I am well aware that we are now in the middle of parliamentary work. We are waiting for a new cabinet and it is up to a new cabinet to take fundamental steps. What does the future of the prison system look like, how much money do we pay for it and how do we organise it? The old Chamber has made a pass at this point for a reason. However, my question to the Secretary of State is: what are we going to do in the meantime? There's a burn notice, there's a petition, there's concerns and there's clear suggestions. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. What steps can he take in the meantime? A formation can take a long time, perhaps a few months, and it does not seem to me that we can waste this time doing nothing about it. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State. My next question concerns not only the incidents themselves, but also an issue of integrity. In tbs institution De Woenselse Poort, a policy of tolerance for the use of soft drugs was applied. In Nieuw-Vossemeer, a former prison director of Vught, a prison where many incidents have also occurred and occur, has been arrested for having a large weed nursery in his home. Are we dealing here with a systematic problem, including executives in institutions who are precisely designed to ensure that people are properly held captive and are not exposed to all kinds of things that cannot bear the light of day? I think this is important because sometimes people work there at risk for their own lives. It is too many incidents to be dismissed as incidents; it seems almost a structural problem. That is why I would also like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. For the sake of short, I agree with the many questions asked by my predecessors. I would like to leave some time to continue the debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u26	So much for the first term of office. Oh, we still have Mr. Grothuizen! He's gonna warm us up. Mr Grothuizen is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Then I'm gonna pause for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers. I call Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Markuszower on his maiden speech. A high workload, high absenteeism, violations of the Working Time Act, underemployment and the fear of an increase in incidents of violence. D66 is also pretty shocked by the letter of fire from the central works council of the Judicial Institutions Department. If the safety of guards and prisoners in Dutch prisons can no longer be guaranteed, that is obviously a serious problem. D66 understands the unrest among the employees of the DJI. A lot has come over them in recent years. The accumulation of cuts on the DJI raises the question of whether these cuts are still justified. That has already been mentioned many times. In February, the permanent committee for V and J discussed the prison system in detail with the State Secretary. So the Chamber knows how D66 looks at these problems and that we are questioning the current situation and even more so about the austerity of the prison system. That is why D66 considers it crucial to look very carefully at what these problems are, how we deal with them in the short and long term and how we can remove the unrest among prison staff. However, the answer to these rather complex questions lies largely not in this Chamber but on the formation table. The letter of fire of the central works council is addressed to informant Schippers, not to the Chamber. Moreover, in last year's budget debate, the Chamber agreed that a new cabinet should look at how we are going to proceed with the prison system. The formation table is therefore the place where that needs to be discussed. That is why I am not going to make an advance on the outcome of these discussions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u28	I have a correction: that letter of fire is also addressed to the informant, but also to the House of Representatives. The petition "Mr.Groothuizen" was just at the offer "Just addressed to the House of Representatives." We are not going to say to each other today that on the one hand we want solutions in the short term, which I heard Mr Groothuizen say, but on the other hand we have difficulty talking about it because it is on the formation table. So how am I supposed to understand these points in a row?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u29	I'll finish my story and then I'll answer Mr Van Nispen's question right away. I am not going to ask the Secretary of State to take an advance on what is on the formation table today. What I do ask the Secretary of State is two things. First of all, are there now, in my view, an answer to Mr Van Nispen's question about acute safety problems which must be resolved immediately, which must now be dealt with? If so, what are the problems and what will the Secretary of State do about them? My second question to the Secretary of State concerns the drug investigation in connection with the incidents in Oosterhoek prison in Grave. Several people have already talked about this. This is an extremely serious matter in which prison staff may be involved in the smuggling of drugs and weapons. There's a criminal investigation going on. As far as I am concerned, it is appropriate for the Chamber to speak with caution. At the same time, however, I note that, at the end of last year, the Secretary of State promised the Chamber that he would investigate the abuses in prisons and the integrity of the prison staff. As far as I am concerned, it is important that we see the results soon. In this context, I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. My first question is whether he has an idea of the time frame on which we can expect that investigation. The second question, which is divided into a number of partial questions, is whether it takes into account the frequency of integrity violations, where the vulnerabilities are and whether criminal investigations have also been harmed by integrity issues. In other words, were they sometimes also people in pre-trial detention who were in restrictions, but could still have contact with the outside world and thus harm the criminal investigation into them? I would like a response from the Secretary of State on these two points. I believe that I have answered Mr Van Nispen's question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u30	I wonder if he thinks so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I just want to make sure that I understand correctly. Do I understand that D66 also thinks that the current short-term problems, which we have heard again today from prison staff, such as the high workload, the far too high absenteeism, the underemployment and the fact that cell doors are opened by one person, while the safety regulations require that this should be done by at least two persons, are exactly the acute security risks for which we want a solution from the Secretary of State in the short term? Is that how I understood that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr Van Nispen sometimes makes the list somewhat wider than I mean her. I think I've been very clear. What matters to me is that we have a map of the acute security problems. If there are, we need to talk about what we can do about it. I agree with Mr Van Nispen. But there are also many structural aspects, such as the occupation, the prisons that should or should not close and that sort of thing. As far as I am concerned, they are on the formation table because they go beyond the scope of the acute problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u33	Once again, very briefly, we must conclude today that there will be a solution to the acute problems that we have heard again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u34	First we're going to ask the Secretary of State that several people have done what the acute problems are and what he himself already has of any solutions in his pocket. Should it prove that we are not able to do so, we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you. At 5:10 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members of Parliament in general for their contributions and congratulate Mr Markuszower in particular on his maiden speech. I had heard him make a speech in the First Chamber, and his transition to the Second Chamber didn't change his tone. We'll only hear it more often. I look forward to crossing the swords. Today, a great deal of attention is rightly being drawn by staff to the difficult conditions in which they have to do their job at the DJI. It is always difficult work, even when everything in an organisational sense is certain and all vacancies are filled. So it's never gonna be easy. That is why I have the greatest respect for people who have to deal with that difficult target group every day, namely criminals who do not always accept that they are locked up when they are justified. So I understand that the Chamber has been following developments in the DJI closely in recent years. The closures have been referred to. After that, however, we were still faced with overcapacity and its spread across all existing prisons in the country. We discussed in detail my plan of last year, with which I may have been able to offer certainty. There would have been some bad news, but at least they would have known where there would be no more jobs and where the jobs would be. In the places where employment would remain, there was certainty and there was less chance that people would think: I'm not sure, I'm getting another chance, so I'm leaving. If we'd done it like that, there might have been less run-off at locations that were open. I also understand that the Chamber did not feel the same way. That's why we didn't go through with the plan developed by the DJI itself. The advantage of this was that there were no additional closures, but the disadvantage was that there could still be uncertainty, so that people might choose to work elsewhere on an individual basis. This, combined with a attracting economy, has led to an accelerated outflow of precisely the people we desperately need. In addition, we are still saying goodbye to people, but those are people who did work other than the work for which there is now a shortage of workers. So it's not that easy to solve by numbers. So we're dealing with an accelerated outflow because people decided to leave themselves, not because they had to leave. In this way, that function remains, but is not fulfilled. So it doesn't do you any good, because the co-worker you do need isn't here. The balance is therefore vulnerable at the moment. Every time we look at how we can handle the staff we have, how we can recruit new colleagues as soon as possible and how we can set up the piss to keep it as safe as possible. That is why we have concentrated people in a number of places, for example by placing them in one wing so that all the staff can work in that wing and get it together at that location as well as possible. Of course, that is not a long-term solution, but I will not be able to give it definitively today. The Chamber asks what I'm gonna do next. I will deal with it as well as possible in the coming period, ensuring that it is as safe as possible and that it meets all standards as best I can. That is why we started opening 140 vacancies in November. That's what I told the Chamber at the time. Those people are now fully trained. 83 have since been appointed. This year we open another 100 additional vacancies. So you could point out to the people around you that there is enough employment at the moment. In addition, we have hired 244 people externally to jump in and 60 additional externals will be added. We will also continue to work hard to combat absenteeism. This has been at an undesirablely high level for years. It has not yet been possible to really bring that down, but to make it flatten. So it is now stable at a level that we are not satisfied with. So that remains a point of attention. Preventive measures are also taken, by investing in the risks of working conditions and by offering preventive medical research to employees. Also in the field of contraband there is a lot of movement, to prevent it from being introduced and to intercept and confiscate it as soon as possible when it is introduced. The bill aimed at criminalising contraband, to which Mr Van Oosten asked, is now ready for consultation. It'll be in consultation today. I could have done that this morning, but I didn't want to surprise the Chamber just before the debate with the news that had already happened. It's been hard work. It's done now. It's going into consultation now. We also have an eye for craftsmanship. We were asked how we deal with new target groups. Are we just looking at numbers, at how we can have just enough staff in one place? No. Last year was just part of the movement I suggested, with which the Chamber disagreed, investing in craftsmanship. Then the Chamber made it clear that we do not want closures, but we do want those investments in craftsmanship. We have managed to find room for this in the budget. Both this year and next year, EUR 10 million has been earmarked to ensure that staff who want to continue to work can continue to do so, and I almost wanted to say well equipped "equipped" but that would be a bit of an unfortunate choice of words at the current high workload is to deal with new target groups and new problems in prison. As I mentioned earlier, we are also looking at how we can handle the occupation as smartly as possible and concentrate on the empty position we have, with security considerations at the forefront. The report requested by Mr Groothuizen, the report on contraband, integrity and continued criminal acts, will come to the Chamber before the summer anyway with a cabinet response. The report's finished. It's being studied now, and there's a reaction to that. I will then send it to the Chamber. In this way, I shall outline it; I will answer the specific questions later. We will do our best. Every effort is made to put and ensure the basic standards and safety of personnel. When I read the letter and the petition, I see that it is a re-affirmation of concerns that we have had for some time, which we have been working hard on for some time. I also understand that I am not saying that it is primarily addressed to the informant, but that it is now addressed to everyone, to the whole Chamber. I have felt it for some time as a continuous task to do my best, within the framework that we now have and with the more limited freedom of movement we agreed on last year, namely to put the real long-term questions on the formation table, to work together with the DJI to ensure that the staff on the work floor can do their job as well and as safely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u37	The Secretary of State indicates that there will be recruitment and that more people will be recruited to reduce the workload. However, he also indicates that it is a fragile balance. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, in the Chamber, on the man side: is it safe at this time or is it not safe? If it's not safe, then what can be done about it? We also hear that people are sometimes placed too quickly on a group of people from a very difficult target group. Then you might wonder if that's safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u38	"Safe" is quite an absolute word. It is not the most comfortable and safe work. I hang out with the Room every day. That's different from dealing with heavy criminals every day being held against their will. Within the context of the DJI and the standards we have, it is now a daily effort to achieve those standards and ensure that staff can do their job safely. There are often dilemmas: do you already put people in the programme or do you not put them into it yet, but do you have fewer people? You don't have plenty of people right now. It has consequences right away. The infringement of working time standards is linked to this. Someone's just doing their job, but they also have picket service for social commitment. He'll be called in for a job. The next day, he's on early duty. That means you have a violation of the Working Time Act. But it is not safe if we do not call these people or if we say the next day: do not come to work, otherwise there is an offence. So you have to choose in a situation of scarcity all the time. Opening up jobs is one thing, but those people can't do that job the day after.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u39	I understand the long answer because it's such a complex matter, but I don't actually hear a yes or no. I think we should hear a yes or a no, because of course there are safety risks. It is indeed not always safe in a prison; I know that all too well. However, if you really can handle certain standards, with staff who are not on their gums and have some well-divided experience, then the job is to do. But I hear from the works council that we no longer have that level within our prison system. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Or isn't it so bad and there are vulnerable places?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u40	I recognize that it doesn't go well, that it squeaks and cracks and that every day it is all sails to ensure safety. So far, so good, but we're on the edge of the bandwidth. That's why things have to happen. I am not saying: go back into the benches, because everything is quite safe and the works council is full of shit. No, of course he doesn't talk out of it. I can only see that the whole DJI is aimed at ensuring security and giving it more margin as soon as possible by hiring, training and retaining people. So we're not really in the jacket about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u41	A yes or a no. Can we guarantee safety at the moment or not? It's a yes or it's a no. I'd just like to hear that from the Secretary of State today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u42	It's a snapshot. You want to be able to look ahead and not even ask that question, that it's a matter of course. We can do it now, but it is not natural that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or in a month's time we can do it again. It is intended that it will be easier and that more room will be available in the staffing. However, it is not so black and white that I can answer yes or no very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u43	Fortunately, the Secretary of State does not say here that the works council is full of shit. He does, in part, recognise the problems that exist. A solution is also being sought. We just heard the list: we invest in it and we recruit staff. That sounded impressive, but the first question that this raises is: how could it have come to this? I can see the Secretary of State sighing, but I think that's an important question. Otherwise, it is difficult to recognise the problems and then come up with solutions. I would therefore like to begin this debate with a look back at the Secretary of State. How did this situation arise, in which we need a letter of fire, a cry for help and a petition from the staff stating that it can no longer guarantee safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u44	I'm not sighing because that question is asked. I sigh because Mr Van Nispen knows the answer very well and was there himself. I am in love with this political debate, but the people, some of them here in the gallery, are not very helpful. Still, we're going to have that discussion. I did not put forward a plan last year, of which the Chamber had every right to say that she did not want it, because I liked it so much to shut down prisons. That plan came from the DJI, no matter how difficult the message was, because keeping a lot of prisons open with a crunch of staff and a surplus of cells isn't the best organizational way. That's why we wanted to do something about it. I understood the room said, "We're not gonna do that." But until we finally hit it, we're holding a time of uncertainty, with a capacity and human commitment suboptimal way to deal with our prisons. That is the consequence. We are doing everything we can to reduce the damage and reduce its negative effects, but on the question of how it could have come to this, I say: this does play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u45	What is particularly important is the uncertainty in which the staff has been brought. That is what I was looking for, and not so much the discussion about closure. If it had been said immediately "We don't have to cut down on the prison staff so quickly," we could have eased that standard of 2 staff out of 24 prisoners. Then we could have said: we need the staff for the time being to ensure safety in prisons. So the Secretary of State could have done that. I am looking for this because I am indeed concerned about the people sitting here today in the gallery. I do indeed think that we should send people home with a little more certainty and recognise that there are cell doors opened by one person when that is not allowed at all. We must acknowledge that there are 100,000 violations of the Working Time Act. The Secretary of State may say that he is trying to solve it as well as possible within the band, but the problem is that the prison system is still being looked at with a limitation of money, i.e. with the calculator on the desk. That restriction is in his money, and for financial reasons we are doing too little to guarantee that security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u46	I don't think so. You can give me another bag of money. I always like that and functionally. And then I can open up more vacancies. But then I have open vacancies and open vacancies and no cells guarding. So I'm really seeing things differently. Mr Van Nispen and the SP often talk about providing security. Last year the Chamber offered certainty by saying: we are not closing anything. But that didn't necessarily make anyone with a job feel the security to stay. Some people have chosen to leave. This also has to do with the economy. If it pulls on, it's gonna hurt you more. We have therefore opened up vacancies, but they are not immediately filled. You don't have structural security in the prison system right now. I have every respect for being said: we are not going to do that now, because that is really something for a new cabinet. But that does mean that uncertainty remains. It also has consequences that we are trying to limit. That's what it's all about. Within DJI everything is focused on this. The head of DJI will do everything in his power to manage that. But you can't cut off on the one hand with motions that should provide certainty, and on the other hand say: you have to offer certainty. That just doesn't relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u47	Sorry, Mr President, but now the Secretary of State is a bit blaming the Chamber for not giving any assurance. We have indeed said that prisons should not be closed, but we have also asked for the standard to be released and for more well-trained prison staff to be maintained and placed on the groups. None of that was possible at the time. The number of multiple cells has increased again. This, too, leads to increased workload for prison staff. There were therefore more possible solutions. They're still there. We shall get back to that when we discuss the demands of the petition. I'm sure the Secretary of State will be able to take over in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'm not blaming the Chamber. That is Mr Van Nispen's opinion when I describe how the last year went. He takes the consequences of this as a reproach. I think you should be clear about the pluses and minuses of every decision. This decision had advantages, but it also has some drawbacks. We are doing our best to reduce the risks, because everything is aimed at maintaining safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u49	For the safety of staff, the standards we agreed at the time with the Master Plan DJI are also relevant. I will talk about 2013. Are these standards still being observed? I have just put that question in my contribution, because I think that is also relevant for the moment. I understand that, of course, it is difficult and complicated to get it done every day, but are these standards still being respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u50	These are guidelines that are the starting point. You strive to decorate it like this. So it is not true that it has been said that we are giving other directives. Then you wouldn't necessarily have vacancies. Then you solve it only on paper and create a new standard. The rule of thumb is applied from 2 to 24. There's a man and power working to meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr President, may I ask the following question? How does it work in practice? Let's say one employee calls in sick. In fact, that's the situation we're talking about: an employee calls in the morning and says he's sick and can't come. How can the other employee then rely on the prison management to ensure that the best possible situation is created for him and that a replacement is flown in to stand there, to ensure that standard is maintained? It's not like those standards are sacred. The standards are there for the safety of the staff. But every time everything has to be put on everything to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u52	You'd love to be so spacious in your jacket that you can call someone who doesn't have a schedule problem. In practice, you can see that loyalty and solidarity in the workplace provide the solution, which means that someone again has a working time violation.... Well, he or she doesn't do it, but there's going to be a situation where someone says, "I'll do an extra shift." And it doesn't fit in so well with the other services he or she has to run that week, which gives you that kind of violation. You don't want to, but that's the way we're sticking it together right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u53	This could indeed lead to an infringement of the Working Time Act. That is, of course, serious in itself. This also needs to be dealt with; that goes without saying, because this leads to the high absenteeism. However, this has the additional advantage, if I may call it that, of maintaining safety in the workplace, because the number of employees needed to be able to handle safely the number of inmates they need to take care of and secure them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes, it is, but I do not want to give the impression that this is the solution and that I say: we are doing it this way; nothing is going on. I am not ignorant of the large number of vacancies that we have opened up so that we can solve it better than along this road. Then I come to the violations of working time. They have fallen in recent years. In January 2014 it was still 17,000 a month and there is a significant decrease to 11,500 in early 2017. Of course, the number is still high and therefore the DJI is taking measures to further reduce this. As of 2017, these violations will also be included in the management discussions with the branch directors in order to pay attention to them and to direct them to them. The bottleneck was brought to the attention of the head offices in the meeting and also that we want to reduce that number. It is often caused by the deployment of the internal assistance teams, as I said briefly. So the evaluation of the internal assistance teams also looks at whether we can shape it in such a way that we can reduce these types of offences. We also introduce the possibility of self-winding. This gives the employees more opportunities to shape the planning and prevent subsequent changes that could lead to a violation of the Working Time Act. That is what we are doing to bring down the standards and to continue to comply with the inspection standard. The internal objective is to reduce the number of infringements by half by the end of next year. Participation is also actively involved. Of course, as I said, filling the vacancies will help greatly to tackle this problem. Part of this also applies to absenteeism. I told you before, it's too high. It's stabilized, but it still has to go down. It's just an indication. It is serious in itself that there is absenteeism, but the fact that it is too high means that a lot of people doing their job are on the edge. There is no absenteeism, but these people are burdened disproportionately, both physically and mentally. To some extent this is part of the work, but it deserves extra attention so that it does not go too far and leads to failure. Then some elements from the petition. The first two I just discussed. I'm getting to the multi-person cells. I'm not gonna stop that right now. I can't live up to that. The inspection has stated in a number of studies that there are advantages and disadvantages, but that you cannot say that it leads by definition to safety risks. They are now about 1,700 prisoners who are in multi-person cells of over 8,000 prisoners in total. At the moment, we use it mainly as a flexible capacity to cope with fluctuations in the influx of prisoners or in the concentration of the population and the empty position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u55	The CDA Group does not object in principle to multi-person cells, but it is true that we have agreed with each other that you will only do it if you know that it is safe and if you know what prisoners you have in your home. I hear from the works council that there are hardly any good income departments left and that everyone is actually put together. People come under pressure in a multi-person cell. So we put people together in a way that we agreed in the Chamber that we would not. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u56	Look, the starting point is, of course, that you do it responsibly, so that safety is guaranteed. I don't want to make a causal link to safety, but you can see that the use of multiple cells has decreased. I think it's still happening in a responsible way. The decline also shows that it is not a matter of "we do it as much as we can." At certain times, the instrument is necessary in order to be able to make good use of it all. And then you have to take the safety effects into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u57	I think this is too vague: taking the safety effects with it. The Chamber has previously called on the Secretary of State to use multiple-person cells only when it is safe and when we know what kind of meat we have in the cockpit. If both requirements are not met, we cannot use the multi-person cells in this way. Is it true that we do know who we have in the house and that it is safe when we place them together? If there's one person on the ring and there's two in the cell, then that cell just can't be opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u58	You can only bet it when it's safe. Otherwise, we won't bet it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u59	Okay, otherwise we're not gonna put it in. I heard the Secretary of State say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked indirectly about the revenue department. I agree with the central works council that there should be a good plan for detention and reintegration and also for preparing for a successful return to society. That is why we are working hard to improve this process. We are looking at the extent to which changes are to be made to the revenue process. The ZBIs are the subject of discussion. We would discuss this in the legislative proposal on phasing out detention, but that has been controversially explained. At the moment, there are no developments and I cannot really go into them. Then there's the question about the cell inspections and the urine checks on drugs. They still take place on a regular basis. It's not like you can say they're gone, but if there's staff cut, then these are things that can happen less. The standards, for example that an integrated safety inspection is carried out twice a year in each department, are simply maintained. Based on the outcome, you will see if additional measures are needed. The Director shall determine, on the basis of signals he has, how often those inspections are carried out and with whom. It's his responsibility. He makes choices and makes decisions about the moment of inspections. We have talked about contraband within the framework of the legislative proposal. Can I guarantee that prosecution will take place? Brightly said, no, because that's what the D.A.'s talking about. But a criminal offence in a penitentiary facility is reported. In the event of an incident of violence, this can be done by the organisation if the victim himself finds it difficult or rather if the institution does so on his or her behalf. So there is also a report. Indeed, there is the possibility of Mr Markuszower asking for it from a heavier penalty because it is violence against government staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'm glad to hear this, but I would find it interesting to get a little more insightful. That may also be done at a later stage in a letter to what extent the Public Prosecutor's Office is actually prosecuting such cases. If there is an inmate with hard drugs in his possession, which is just a crime, I would be sorry if they were then driven: well, that man is already behind the prison walls, it doesn't have to be heavier. In fact, I would like to know whether not only standard reporting is being made, but also that a follow-up is being given, namely that such a person is simply prosecuted and preferably convicted, if the judge thinks he can do so. Then that guy's just gonna have to stay in jail a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u62	It's not like they're not criminal offences inside the prison walls. I agree with Mr Van Oosten and we will see how long we can produce these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u63	It is very interesting to talk about how heavy such a punishment is, but it is even more important to get those people consistently. It is true what the Secretary of State says: we have not completely abolished these controls on drugs and other prohibited substances. But how many times does such a check take place? How much less did it get? Are there any figures and can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber more precisely about this? I asked it so precisely, because we hear such noises from the staff. That staff says, "We just don't have time to check cells for cell phones, drugs and weapons anymore." Are there figures and, if so, can we get them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u64	I need to see to what extent we have figures that we can relate to this problem. There will probably be absolute numbers available, but I still have to check whether we can present them in such a way that it says something about how those numbers relate to previous situations, the number of prisoners or the number of staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u65	I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if it is possible that in some establishments all incidents are no longer recorded. I am talking not only about aggression incidents but also about the occurrence of contraband. I hear noises that not all plant directors and establishments have an interest in being honest about the number of incidents, because the discussion about possible future closures is still above the market. It says something about the institution and how well things are going there. Even though I have seen the word pass, it may be too difficult to talk about a blackmail culture. But there are people who say, "We shouldn't report everything anymore. We have to say that everything is going well, because otherwise we might be in trouble as a decor." Can the Secretary of State also have an investigation into the occurrence of such practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u66	I can check, but maybe it's better to make it clear here that it would be a very stupid tactic. Choices in the classification of the penitentiary landscape, so to speak, have nothing to do with this kind of figures. In the previous plan, many factors were taken into account in the decision on closures, but these arguments were not decisive and the same applies to the objections to the Court's premises. The moment things aren't going well somewhere, it needs to be better. I think... let me put it this way: that there is such a culture would be an even worse signal than the fact that contraband has been found. That is also bad, but reducing contraband is a perpetual struggle in prisons. In order to reduce it, you have to respond to the possibilities that people can find for it. The criminals inside and their entourage outside of prison will never stop trying. We just need to know what is happening, because if you do not know how often it occurs and is tried and it is not properly reported, we do not know what measures to take. So you're not going to make the problem any smaller in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u67	Whether this could be the case will therefore be looked at. Can we therefore consider whether institutions fear that they will be taken into account for the number of prisoners with whom things are going well, who have been promoted or who, in jargon, are green, or the number of inmates with whom things are not going well? We do hear that this is why prisoners are being turned green. So that means this prisoner is fine. So that cannot be a criterion for keeping things more or less under control because there is a fear that they will be looked at when a decision on new closures will be taken in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u68	How do I put it? I've seen enough episodes of The Wire to understand what Mr Van Nispen means by sending statistics instead of reality. If that were to happen, it would be bad. I'll check to see if we recognize those sounds. I have already said that I totally disagree with the people who think that is useful. I just need to know to figure out what to improve. There is really no demand for perfect people to work, especially because it is such a difficult job. So that's exactly what we need. Furthermore, we judge someone on the content and not on the question of whether the consequences are better for us. That would be really bad. I can still check whether there are certain internal incentives that provoke this behavior. But at least I'm not that incentive. I don't hand out bunches of flowers when there's more greenery. These remain individual assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u69	I don't think the Secretary of State even realizes what an important statement he's making here. For many years we have been required to report, including from the prison system, and we have been called upon to do so on a variety of figures, including the number of measures of order and penalties. There are facilities that allow inmates to experiment with the behavior, because they want to adjust it, not to make it safe inside, but to make sure someone can handle it outside. But this is the conversation with directors. People have to answer for that. I think that's a bad incentive. So if the Secretary of State really wants to face up to this sort of thing and make sure that that kind of incentive is not applied, we are actually a lot further ahead today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u70	Look, of course you have to answer for work. In addition, you need handles, and they are often in things that you can register and measure. But this should not lead to anything that cannot be measured as of no value being considered and one focuses too much on what is in such a spreadsheet. Of course, you have to answer for it. You can't say to anyone: here you have a job, do your job, but good luck; someone else is ultimately responsible, but they don't really need to know about it. So you're going to create mechanisms in which you can benchmark, so you can also look at how things are going with one and how things are going with the other. That's how you learn from each other. But the question here is not of course: just give me figures that I like, and if reality is wrong, then manipulate the numbers. You need to know what's going on. That's why you need to get a straight look and report. If something goes really bad somewhere because it's run badly, you're gonna see what needs to be done better. In most cases the inspection is still there, often with the support of the Chamber and because I also think that the inspection should be looked at. But I wouldn't say entirely that we don't have to answer anymore. I don't think that was exactly the question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u71	No, it's not about not being accountable anymore. The point is that you have to stay in very good conversation with each other about the question of what to answer. I still hear that there is a need to explain why many punishments are being imposed. But I speak to directors who say: I just let them experiment with behavior to make sure I redirect them; then it may be a bit problematic inside, but then they know how to deal with aggression outside. If you create a system with each other where you can explain each time why it's so complicated with you, you give a negative incentive. And we need to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u72	Part of what Mrs Van Toorenburg describes sounds very good, namely that you have a conversation about it when you get a signal that it is so different from others. Why is that? If there's a good answer to that, that's a good explanation. But someone can also blink and say, I don't know, it's just a bit of a mess. If that were the case, the inspection usually says so. In such a case, we must also be able to intervene. Then those signals are important to get upstairs that you need to get a closer look. Mr Van Oosten talked about drug tolerance within TBs clinics or even p.i.Let's see. That's out of the question. Drug use inside the fences is not permitted. What was playing at De Woenselse Gate came out a little unhappy. That was that outside the clinic there were some patients out there, it's more than just a TBs institution using soft drugs and it was tolerated. That wasn't on the premises. It was at an advanced stage of resocialisation, with agreements on that use included in the care plan. In these cases, the psychiatrist found that there was no crime risk with the use of soft drugs. It was also clear to them that they were not allowed to use drugs within the clinic. The Woenselse Gate recently adopted a new drug policy which, in order to avoid any form whatsoever, also no longer permits this part that I have just described. But on the premises and inside the gate, it was already like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u73	I hear the Secretary of State say that drugs are not tolerated in the clinics and prisons. That may be formal, but I mentioned in my text that if drugs are found, the penalty is extremely low. I called that "Ubersoft." Now that the Secretary of State says that it is not in fact tolerated, I ask him what he thinks is a suitable sanction for finding drugs. Following on from what Mr Van Oosten said, I also ask him why there is no report if drugs are found. Why aren't criminals being punished extra harshly if drugs are found in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u74	They're gonna file a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u75	What about the sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u76	There are guidelines within the DJI regarding disciplinary punishment. It is ultimately up to the director of the establishment to determine the penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Secretary of State now guarantees that there will always be a report every time drugs are found?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u78	To ensure that it also happens, I find something in the vein of: there is the chopping block, put your head on it. There's supposed to be a report. That's the policy. There is no intermediate rule that there should be no reporting in certain cases. If a criminal offence is detected in a prison, it is the rule that a report should be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u79	Is this a directive on sanctions, because that is still not clear to me? The internal penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u80	Last time, Mr Markuszower. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u81	I do not have the content of the directive ready right now. Like I said, the director decides what punishment is on it. We also have guidelines for this, so that it does not become arbitrary. But I don't have the level of punishment per gram or per incident on standby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u83	I would like to give Mr Markuszower my support, as he did just now in line with my question. Here's what I said. Suppose hard drugs are found in a cell, or a weapon or anything else that's just forbidden, in normal life, let alone in prison. Then that's a felony and you have to deal with it. I understand very well the Secretary of State that, in principle, standard reporting is being made. However, I would like to know whether criminal proceedings will be followed. It is indeed not up to the Secretary of State, the State and the judge to condemn, but I do want information on how often this happens. According to this, this also makes clear what Mr Markuszower is looking for. In addition, I would also be interested to read in the promised letter how people are disciplinedly punished, so as regards the detention regime itself. I can imagine that if you commit a felony and you have those hard drugs in your cell, you will be prosecuted for that, but you will also be placed in a prison regime that is as heavy as possible, that you can no longer receive visitors, etc. After all, it's not normal what you did in that prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u84	I agree with Mr Van Oosten. That is why there are also agreements that a sanction will follow. I will inform the Chamber in more detail about this in the letter. Mr Van Oosten also asked whether it could have an effect on early release. That could be done; vi can be postponed or omitted if it appears that the prisoner has behaved badly. Such misconduct can be evident from or built up from behaviour that has led to several disciplinary penalties, such as possession of drugs. The granting of a vi is linked to misconduct and repeated risk. It can therefore indeed result in vi being postponed or not being granted. We are now investigating the operation of the VI regulation in response to a motion by Mr Van Oosten. In that study we will also consider how the behaviour during detention is taken into account in awarding vi. After the summer we expect the results of this research. Mrs. Kuik had a question about the integrity of staff and staff management. Integrity is even more important for DJI; there are of course all kinds of functions where it is important, but you may not be tempted so quickly and are not so easily tempted by evildoers to go the wrong way. Non-integer behaviour is therefore not accepted. Nevertheless, it happens. It's hard for me to say anything about the specific case, because the judge has to judge if anyone's guilty. At least there's been reason for the D.A. to start a case and file charges for drug involvement. This automatically leads to suspension and denial of access to the DJI buildings. Part of the investment in craftsmanship, for which we have reserved resources, is to maintain integrity, including in dealing with more difficult target groups. We have within the DJI the Bureau of Security and Integrity, which monitors the integrity violations and also conducts internal investigations if there is reason to suspect that something is not right. Where appropriate, the examination shall be made and the director of the establishment shall be advised on suspension. Mrs. Kuik asks if they are incidents, because it seems structural. That's it in the sense that there are incidents every year. I don't want to be too semantic, but we've seen a fairly constant negative score integrity violations in recent years. We haven't seen a huge increase lately. The problem continues to arise. Some people are tempted. Some people may have already had these ideas and have started working in the institution for that purpose. It is up to us to prevent people from going in the wrong direction and to filter out rotten apples, which cannot be prevented, and to remove them from our organization as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u85	Everywhere people work, incidents happen. The same applies to the police and also to the prison system. I don't approve of that. I do have a problem with it, however, that in De Woenselse Poort, a clinic where several problems have been identified, the management allows drugs to be consumed blindly. The Secretary of State may not say anything about it, but I have a problem with the fact that a former director of the Vught prison was arrested for an alleged drug bust. Scanning staff is fun, but we must of course be 100% sure that the leadership of such institutions does what we have agreed to. If the summit isn't right, we can't expect it to go well underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mrs. Kuik always talks about a former director. That's right, but he wasn't a director now. That doesn't make it any less difficult for the prosecution to suspect him and for what reason. It's also wrong for someone in automation, but it's not a director of an institution. I can't quite place what Mrs. Chicken says about the Woenselse Poort. I just explained what was going on with what was referred to in the press as "tolerance policy drugs." It was about the use of soft drugs by people outside the institution as part of their care plan. There was no eyelashes. There was a philosophy behind it: part of the care plan was that it was allowed to use soft drugs during leave. This has now come to an end, but it was not thought of by a director: I am fine with blowing on my property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u87	It was indeed a former director, but it was at the prison in Vught, which is repeatedly negative in the news and where structural matters are not going well. It concerns both incidents of violence and the smuggling of objects. The Secretary of State can trivialize the events at De Woenselse Poort, but one goes against national guidelines. This raises the question of whether we are dealing here with incidents such as the Secretary of State or whether there is a structural problem in the management of such institutions. I want to know. It does not make much sense for us to look at the security of staff and the handling of prisoners, if there is a structural problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u88	I explained what was going on in the two incidents mentioned by Mrs Kuik. I have no reason to suspect that something is structurally wrong with people in leadership positions within DJI. Just like incidents on the workplace don't give me any reason that something is structurally wrong on the workplace at DJI. Yeah, there are prisons that get bad news. Getting good on the news as a prison is also very handsome. If it goes well, it's not news. If things go bad, it's news. That remains a permanent challenge. I have no reason to believe that there is something structuralally worse than before, apart from the fact that I think that when it comes to contraband and its imports, there can be more sharpness than at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u89	I have one last question. That is a question of detail. I don't know if the Secretary of State can answer that. What struck me, also in the case of the former director who was arrested in Nieuw-Vossemeer, is that the department, in this case the Secretary of State, was informed only a few days after that incident. Is that right? I think it is absolutely necessary, precisely because it is about integrity, precisely because it affects something that we have a structural problem with, namely security within the chain, that the department is immediately informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u90	I don't know what Mrs. Chicken means by "immediately."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u91	Now, if I may believe the coverage, the Secretary of State has only been informed a few days later. That man was arrested on Tuesday and on Thursday they didn't know what was going on at the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'll just have to check when I've been informed by picket. Usually that's the same day or the next day. That's just what time something happens. The D.A.'s office isn't telling us, I think we should honor that divorce, too, to rulers who's on the line, who's under investigation, or who's gonna pick it up. That is sometimes uncomfortable, because as a ministry you sort of go about it. But not in individual cases. I'd like to maintain that an investigation gets its hands on it and that someone, if he's to be arrested, gets arrested first. If that's someone who works for us, I'd like to know soon, at least before he gets out, so you can deny him access to everything. But I didn't experience any emotion myself that I thought it was all too late. Mr Krol had another question. How is it that we have open custodial sentences and empty positions? To sum up, it's about a lot of punishments, but most of these people aren't in the country. So we can't pin it down right now. We always make sure that we have enough capacity... a part of it is on active tracking... so that these people can serve their sentence very quickly when we find them. That can't be the problem. If everyone on that list and still alive would come forward at the same time, it wouldn't be a problem to let those people serve their time. There are a lot of people involved, but of course they do not all have years of punishment in their name. So if someone has to sit for another three weeks, the same bed can then be occupied by someone else who also has to serve several weeks or months of punishment. The high number remains a thorn in the eye. We have been successful in gaining access to the stock, but unfortunately there was also a new growth of this category. So it is still a matter of hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u93	Clear. We are about to listen to Mr Markuszower's interruption. After that, I hope the Secretary of State can conclude so that we can look at a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u94	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u95	He's already done. All the better. Mr Markuszower, to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is it true that three quarters of the convicts who are not in prison, but are supposed to be there, are not being tracked down? So there's about 9,000 people out there that the Secretary of State doesn't intend to do anything about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u97	There's a lot of them. You intend to do something to everyone, but there is one category of people, so I consider it, just on the other hand, that we have reason to suspect that they are in the Netherlands or are here regularly and that we can really catch them. The other category is people whose residual sentence is very small, for example a few days, or whose indication that they are not in the country. They're still on the list, so if you run into them, okay, but we don't expect to find them soon. Furthermore, there is the phenomenon that people sometimes die abroad without us knowing that. Those people don't leave that list until after a certain number of years. So they're still on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u98	Is it true that this is indeed about 9,000 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u99	I don't know those numbers by heart. I regularly send the Chamber the latest figures; I would refer you to them. But I do believe it went into the thousands, yes. It may well be that you ask that question in response to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Secretary of State is doing a little laconic. I think it is serious that three quarters of those convicted are not even actively tracked down. The fact that they are abroad seems to be a recommendation from the Secretary of State: if you are convicted, you should go abroad quickly; at least you will not be tracked down by this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u101	I don't do laconical, but I do tend not to make the world any tougher than it is. We can work well with many countries in active detection. Unfortunately, there are also crook's nests that don't do that. Then it is a factual observation that if someone is there, there is little point in using police capacity all day long to look for someone in the Netherlands. Of course those people are on the list. If they come into the country and we find them, something could happen. At about a quarter of that list, we're very active. That's what it's like now, because it's the best chance we have of finding them, getting them locked up and letting them serve their sentence and getting them off the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u102	So far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u104	Then we'll go to the second term of the Chamber. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. Unanimously, the Chamber expressed its concern today about the workload, understaffing, absenteeism, smuggling and aggression incidents. I'm actually really sorry we let it get this far. However, it was not the House of Representatives, but an ill-thought-out demolition plan that rambled. None of this would have been necessary if it hadn't been so quick to cut back. In fact, it's so bad that people are forced to work when they're sick. And in case of absenteeism, there is no substitute. Laws and regulations are there to comply with. This applies to the Working Time Act, but also to regulations such as those for the opening of cell doors. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prison staff are no longer able to guarantee safety in judicial establishments due to excessive workload;]] [[noting that staff also indicate that the Working Time Act is regularly exceeded, that absenteeism remains too high and that there is not enough time to check for prohibited means;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to appoint additional staff in the judicial establishments to resolve these problems so that the security situation can be improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-682]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u106	I am tabling this motion because the order of magnitude referred to by the Secretary of State is totally inadequate. Finally, I shall table a final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the central works council of the Judicial Institutions Office requires that the number of infringements of the Working Time Act be reduced, the level of absenteeism is reduced, the use of multiple-person cells is stopped, the income department is re-established in the short term and the very limited security facilities are re-used;]] [[invites the Government to adopt these requirements, to discuss them with the Works Council and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-683]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Markuszower. I know more than anyone how fierce ex-First Chamberlains can be here. You are no exception, Mr Markuszower. I'm new to this file, so I have some questions here and there. I made a mistake in the first term, too. Where I said "The Woenselse Gate," I meant the Kijvelanden. I've fixed that for you. I have a lot of doubts, for two reasons. First of all, like I said, it's a new file for me. Secondly, I hear a doubting Secretary of State, but a well-meaning Secretary of State. I had a motion in preparation to argue that there should be a zero tolerance policy on the introduction of contraband. He himself has a much nicer word for it, but I am holding it behind my back for a moment because I want to see what comes out of it. I would like to table my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an overcapacity of around 3,000 detention places;]] [[Whereas in some establishments there is a major shortage of staff where empty cells are monitored in other places;]] [[Whereas all this can lead to unsafe situations in practice;]] [[calls on the government to focus on the optimal distribution of cells, detainees and personnel in order to reduce the workload and improve the security situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-684]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u108	Finally, Mr President, may I express my sincere appreciation for the people who work in this sector of sport? I have great admiration for what they can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. Then there is Mr Markuszower's maiden second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The distress call of the central works council of the Judicial Institutions Department is also heard by my group on parts. Unlike Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestion, we have great confidence in and also great appreciation for the staff of the prison system, for the guards and the entire workplace. Thank you all for being here. Power and authority must return to the prison guards. This can only be achieved if the possibilities of complaint are abolished in their entirety. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the prosecution law, as laid down in Chapter XI of the Penitentiary Principles Act, effectively lost custody in prisons;]] [[Whereas detainees who consider that they are in any way harmed or are the victims of a criminal offence may apply to the civil court or file a complaint;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the complaint, as set out in Chapter XI of the Penitentiary Principles Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u111	This is kind of freaking me out. Of course, people shouldn't walk the rules in prisons. That makes sense. But why, with some kind of blunt axe, would you cut the entire complaint right out of the prison system, when as a country you can be proud that someone can at least be heard internally? Of course, someone who does this wrong must get a hard push. But why such a rücksichtslose movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u112	Flavors differ as to whether it is rücksichtslos. If you look closely at the problem, the right of complaint is the bottleneck. You've got to get that out. You can make changes, but they won't help in the end. We have civil law in this country, so if a prisoner feels wronged, if a tort is committed against him or if a criminal offence is committed, then he can go to the civil court. I'm gonna go to the criminal court. That judge can then break up with me. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that we can be proud of such a system, but I think it works counterproductively in the prison system. I think that we are best able to help the prison guards by abolishing it, because it is being abused terribly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u113	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u114	They're taking advantage of everything. In the ten years I have been the spokesman for Security and Justice and I have never had a prison officer or other servant at my door asking me to lift the complaint; not one! What I have heard is that we need to take certain measures, that people should not be able to complain endlessly and that they should not be forced to pay compensation. We've got to get rid of this crazy. But I really think it would be unwise to come up with a plan to abolish the complaint, because then all those people with a nice addition to the civil justice system can get stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u115	You will not blame me if I do not compete with Mrs Van Toorenburg about her seniority and her great experience in this area. However, I would like to contradict this from my own experience. I've also had a lot of contact with prison guards and people from the works council. I have come to this conclusion, but Mrs Van Toorenburg is free to vote against my motion. I would also like to make the following motion on behalf of my colleagues Agema and Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prisoners are allowed to smoke in their cells and nursing home residents are not allowed to live in their own rooms;]] [[calls on the government to reverse this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower, Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u116	Although I have very little need to stand up for smoking prisoners or anyone else, I point out the following. This debate is about the safety of the prison staff. First of all, Mr Markuszower proposes to delete the entire right to complain with a blunt axe and then to ensure that people in nursing homes may also smoke in their rooms. What are the concrete contribution of these proposals to reducing absenteeism, to countering this massive under-staffing and daily security incidents, to combating smuggling and controlling cells? What exactly do these proposals contribute, so that people in the public gallery and all the other people in the country are happy about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u117	It is my firm conviction that if power and authority go back to the prison guard, a large part of the problems are not solved. I have also referred in my contribution to the problems mentioned by the central works council in the letters. Our group supports this in parts too. That is why we will support moves in this direction. But as long as power and authority are not returned to the prison keepers, they cannot effectively maintain order. Both motions ensure that the unjust and far too many rights which the prisoners, the prisoners, the criminals, now have in our prisons are reversed. That's gotta be different. The helm really has to change, otherwise, I believe, the problems will only get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u118	Rounding off and short, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u119	If Mr Markuszower thinks that prison staff will be happy to check whether people are smoking on their cells in future, please go and talk to those people more often and more often on work visits in those establishments, to hear what is really going on and what is really needed to guarantee the safety that we consider so important together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u120	It is suggested that I have not done enough. I'll leave that accusation to you. At least it would help if prisoners were not allowed to smoke, but guards in prisons in smoke-free areas would. That is not the case now. We really live in a reversed world. It's the world upside down; it really has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has great appreciation for the use of prison staff. Day in, day out, they're on the front line. That is why, a year ago, we asked the Secretary of State to examine these issues and to involve the workplace in the important organisational changes and measures that could be taken. For good employership is also taking the employee participation seriously. Did the Secretary of State visit the meeting last year? Have the measures also been discussed with the works council? Any appointments made? If so, which one? And if that has not yet happened, will the Secretary of State intend to hold that consultation? And if he's not willing to do that, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you for your conciseness. Mr Van Nispen has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u123	Those are very legitimate questions. That's great. I agree that the Secretary of State should consult with the central works council and participation in the prison system. Does GroenLinks also agree that the demands, in my view reasonable, should be taken up in the petition and that the discussion should be about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u124	That is also a bit of a question of what is happening at the negotiating table at the formation. GroenLinks believes it is very important to strengthen any initiative concerning the involvement of the workplace in the future of the prison system. In this sense, it is important to wait and see what the Secretary of State will do with the Cor. That is my answer to the question. We continue to work for improvement in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State has indicated that the bill he has mentioned is going into consultation today. In other words, the draft law on criminalisation of those who deliberately endanger security in prison is being launched, not only as regards the security of prisoners, but also as regards the security of the staff, especially by illegal entry into prison of illegal goods such as small phone calls, drugs, weapons, etc. I'm happy about that. In that sense, I am reassured by what the Secretary of State said: I have heard what happened at that TBS institution, but drugs are not at issue in the prison system, no way. At least it's about not being tolerated, because we know it's, unfortunately, illegal. That needs to be addressed. Hence the other proposal. I have one more question. I had already asked that question and perhaps it has already been answered, but I did not pay attention. I can assume that those few rotten apples among the staff will, fortunately, be very few, not only disciplinaryly punished, but also criminally prosecuted, and that, in any case, standard corruption or any criminal offence is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. This is certainly an unsatisfactory debate, especially for the people here in the public gallery, who have sounded a cry for help and are really wondering what will be the end of it, how we will actually solve it. I heard the Secretary of State right. He recognizes the vulnerability right now. He also pointed out that he felt that safety was very fragile, but at the moment it was not so worrying that measures other than those currently being taken should be taken. I think it is important, and I see a motion on this too, that the vacancies that are available should be filled out as soon as possible, that everything should be done to ensure that this is possible. I want the Secretary of State to report to the Chamber if he can, and if he can't, he'll come back to the Chamber when he thinks it's not safe. Then we'll have to scale up, then we'll have to think of something. For now, the question is to the Secretary of State: is it true that you are doing everything you can to get those vacancies filled? If it's possible, let it be spread out a little bit. However, spreading is also worrying, because then we will close up facilities that we do not want closed because regional control is also important. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State as soon as possible whether he will inform the Chamber as often as possible when necessary, whether he will do everything he can to fill the vacancies and whether he will perhaps take measures to shed what can be done, in which case he will inform the Chamber of what he is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's last words. I am sorry, but I think we will remain in the dark for a long time, because as long as the formation negotiations are still going on, you cannot take the major steps that I think are ultimately necessary. Nevertheless, I believe that the call to fill the vacancies and to do what is necessary now to empty the worst need is essential. I have a specific question for the Secretary of State. The negotiations are ongoing. The Secretary of State is working on the formation plan on the future of the prison system and the Judicial Institutions Service. Is he willing to enter into consultation with the Cor himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. I am reassured by the answer given by the Secretary of State. He has indicated that the acute problems have his attention. And more importantly, if I listen to all the numbers carefully, I find that there are a substantial number of people joining DJI. I come to about 750 people and I find that reassuring. I do have a specific question for the Secretary of State. When does he expect the 360 people he's recruiting externally to actually be employed? We also have to establish with each other that there was indeed a serious problem. That's what I'm saying in the direction of the employees of DJI. We have concluded here today that there are serious problems and that we take them seriously. I therefore share the appreciation expressed by several colleagues for the work of DJI staff. I have also asked the Secretary of State a number of questions about the investigation that is yet to come. He didn't really give a concrete answer to that. I understand it's gonna be before the summer and there's gonna be a cabinet response. Are there any indications of the integrity violations, the vulnerabilities and the question whether criminal investigations have been harmed? Finally, I agree with the comments made by the CDA and the SP towards Mr Markuszower. I note that he went in with his leg stretched, but in the end he didn't hit a ball or a man with his motion, which in fact doesn't regulate anything but only shifts something. He wants to deprive people who have been punished for bad behaviour, but who are also in a vulnerable position of being deprived of their right to complain. As far as I'm concerned, he went in with his leg stretched, but he didn't hit anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u129	From the D66 angle, I'll take that as a compliment. I note, however, that Mr Grothuizen is mainly talking about the prisoners, the prisoners, while I am particularly concerned about the prison guards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u130	The only answer I can give to this is that if the prisoners are doing well and we guarantee their rights properly, this will also have a positive effect on the security situation of the personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u131	So much for the second term of office. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who is going to answer the questions and comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. Ms Özütok asked about the consultation with the central works council. That conversation wasn't made by me personally. That's what DJI's headmaster did. I have no reason to believe that this is not in good harmony or that there is tension on it, so I should be in the middle of it myself. At the time, I understood in the discussions with the Chamber that she wanted me to involve the cor if I were to introduce a major change in the system. After that, the Chamber said that we are not going to make a major change in the system. I think the conversations are going well. So I see no reason to go into that. If there is a need for a personal conversation, I am open to it; that is not the point. Mrs. Kuik asked that too, only she also established a relationship with the formation. Let me put it this way: I am now less useful to talk to than I was when I was a missionary. If there are questions at the information table, they are usually answered by officials. I think it's a good idea to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my question, but I did not ask him so much to involve it in a system change. I understand what he is saying, but he has also mentioned a number of measures he has taken. I very much appreciate these measures. Were they also discussed in consultation with the Cor and was there support? Is the expertise of the Cor included in the measures? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u134	Yes, that was certainly the important input for these measures: how much more do we need? I think those conversations are going well. I'll let you know. If there is a need to speak with me, I have no objection to that either. The Central Works Council is an important interlocutor who informs us that many MPs are interested in talking to the Cor. It's fine that that happens. I just want to point out that there is a good understanding. We have no problem with these conversations and the cor has no problem letting them know. So it's all about openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u135	I'm glad to hear this. I think the Cor appreciates the conversation with you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u136	Maybe, maybe or not, it's not a yes and it's not a no. I'm running a little too long for this. Excuse me. But I'd like to hear: yes, I'll start the conversation, or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u137	I'm prepared to do that. However, it would not be the first time that I have had a conversation because the Chamber would like it very much, and then I noticed in that conversation that we both have the idea that one would like to talk to the other. If the cor wants that conversation, it's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u138	A word from the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr. President, I checked. I think there's a need. I now have a commitment that the Secretary of State will do so, if there is a need on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u140	Yeah, I'll even pour coffee that's burned in a p.i.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u141	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u142	Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 682 belongs to Mr Van Nispen. Given the plan we have now, I find that motion superfluous and I would advise against it. Mr Van Nispen says that we need to hire more people on top of the existing vacancies, but I do not see the point of this now. First of all, we must do our best to fill these vacancies, train those people and then add them to the workplace. The second motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u143	Wait a minute. I want to hear if you've advised against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u144	Yeah, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u145	That's the case. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr Van Nispen's second motion for a resolution (Doc. 683 is very much concerned with future decisions on multi-person cells and zbi's. I also advise against this motion, because it is not up to me to take any further steps in that regard. The Krol motion in part No. 684 is a useful suggestion. It's about dealing with work pressure and having flexibility, which allows you to relieve the workload if that's possible and ensure safety. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The Markuszower motion in part No. 685 is about the complaint. I'd like to advise against that motion. I agree with him that the right to complain should not be abused, but I disagree with him that no prisoner in the Netherlands should ever be able to complain. I think complaining is a good Dutch tradition and that you have to have good procedures to get your rights if something is wrong. I honestly think this is nice for the staff, too. If someone hysterically calls out that he's being mistreated, he can file a complaint. If you let them be judged, it often comes out that the staff has acted neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u147	To clarify: anyone can complain in the Netherlands. That is why we have a civil court and a criminal court. That is also in the operative part of the motion. If the Secretary of State considers that the complaint should continue to exist, why, for example, are there no registry fees due? The Secretary of State says that every Dutchman should be able to complain, but the prisoner, for example, does not have to pay registry fees. If his complaint is dismissed as unfounded, the prisoner will not have to pay. So there's no brake on complaining to the prisoner. The Secretary of State may not recommend my motion, but what is he going to do about the abuse of the complaint?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr Markuszower raises a number of points which I have indeed looked at. The ECHR and its related case-law have pretty much boarded things up, so there's nothing you can do about it. Inmates are given high legal protection. Sometimes I think: I can imagine a lot of countries that still have a lot of work to do here, but in the Netherlands we have usually arranged it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u149	The Secretary of State is now pretending to be an ECHR sacrosanct, a kind of sacred stone. If the Secretary of State considers that the complaint should be changed, he may also withdraw temporarily or completely from the ECHR. And if the Secretary of State wants to be part of the ECHR again, he can renegotiate that one article that might get in the way. The ECHR cannot therefore be a brake on a normal complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u150	Well, it could be. In fact, we have chosen to make human rights a fundamental part of our Dutch democratic rule of law, to allow it to work directly and to give it a higher hierarchy than to a currently desired Chamber. Of course, you could choose to step out. Honestly, there's no letter in the ECHR that I have a problem with. It is usually the interpretations about which discussions are possible, which are therefore conducted. To remove the right of inmates to complain and therefore to leave the ECHR, I do not think that the price is worth the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u151	Short closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u152	I will submit my motion anyway, but I would like the State Secretary's undertaking that he will send to the Chamber what he does think he can do about the problem of the complaint, which the State Secretary sees as well; it is not just a statement from the Chamber, as the State Secretary has just said, within the limits which the State Secretary considers acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u153	I think I remember having an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. I'll see if that information is complete and I can refer to it or I'll have to send an additional update.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u154	Then motion No. 686.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u155	Motion No. 686 I also advise against. I would not know what that is like with VWS; it is covered by my colleagues' portfolio. In general, it seems to me the best solution if everyone stops smoking, but I do not recommend doing it this way and taking measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u157	There were two more questions from Mr Grothuizen. The cases he asked to take into the investigation are in there. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me to keep the Chamber informed, especially when I need to take some unorthodox measures. That's what I'm telling you. She also wanted to be kept informed of how successful we are, because opening up vacancies is nice, but filling it out is better. I assure her that I will continue to inform the Chamber about progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u158	I have asked another question about how to deal with corrupt staff: those who not only punish some of the rotten apples disciplinaryly, but also prosecute them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u159	That leads to a report. In the letter you asked for, the number of prosecutions will also be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u160	I'd love to, but I also understand that there's a standard report going on. I had the impression that sometimes disciplinary sanctions are being imposed, but that no criminal proceedings are taking place. Whether that happens is up to the D.A.; I'm sure I'd like to see the figures, but it starts with filing a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u161	Yeah, if there's any suspicion of a criminal offence, we need to file a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u163	We will vote on the motions on Tuesday after the recess. So much for this debate. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.20 p.m. Then we are going to talk about the European summit. I see that Mr Van Nispen has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u164	It is indeed customary to vote on motions on Tuesdays. Now that is so long on this important subject and since there are votes tomorrow, I would like to propose that we vote on it tomorrow. There are already votes planned, so that should not be the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u165	That depends on all of you. You're making a proposal now. That means we're gonna have a little order batter on the end of the day. Mr Van Nispen is right that there are votes on Thursday. If there is a majority in favour of voting on this on Thursday, we can take the motions with us in those votes if we wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u166	I wholeheartedly support this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u167	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u168	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u169	Support for the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-7.u170	Then we have a majority with a few head-bumps, and then I see that we are going to vote on this on Thursday. I wish you all a good meal.
