ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 3354, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the regulation of the recording and retention of registration data by the police. I welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber. I congratulate him most warmly on his appointment. It's the first time he's come here to defend a bill. I wish him a great deal of wisdom and wish him every success in the performance of his duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the PVV Group, too, I congratulate the Minister on his appointment, despite the fact that we may have some differences of opinion with the private individual, ranging from Black Piet to the treatment of jihadists. That said, the world and thus crime is rapidly changing. It is up to the legislator to anticipate this over and over again and not to be put at an ever greater disadvantage. For example, today's world is a very different one than that in 2013, the year in which the initiative for this law was taken. Politics has thus been working for four years on a relatively simple law on recording registration data. So we are not only chasing the facts, we are also walking very slowly, especially here in the Senate. Mr. Chairman. Even before I went into politics, my eye fell on a piece of paper. I think it was in the Elsevier where it was made clear that the police, using cameras, could unfailingly pick drug couriers off the road. That came back on the news from the weekend. The chance was about 100%, but the case didn't last in court, because the cameras weren't hung up to catch drug couriers. I was stunned. The government has the resources to fight crime, but it doesn't have the means to fight it. What kind of country is this? A number of parties in this house may take that for granted, but I am making it very clear that almost no one understands that outside of this Haagse cheese clover. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has lifted national borders. As a result, Eastern European criminals are now travelling across the country completely unhindered. Albanians were in the news last week, but tomorrow it could be Romanians again. Even terrorists can enter our country unhindered. You may recall Mr El Bakraoui, Muslim suicide bomber by profession and one of the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels. He was able to travel freely throughout the EU for a long time. Nothing got in his way. It is therefore a good thing that during the process in which this law was on its way to this house, the possibility was added that the AIVD could also use the registration plate recognition system to combat terrorism and map terrorist networks. The system has already proved its added value, as it has already functioned here and there under the Police Act. The registration system can provide just that little bit of evidence to track down and lock down serious criminals and terrorists. What is still missing is a rapid exchange of information by the mayor of Baarle-Nassau. This now requires an international legal aid application. Can the Minister indicate whether steps are being taken to address this problem in cross-border crime? That's where they're in the south of the country to jump. Mr. Chairman. The collection of citizens' data also affects the privacy of those citizens. That's why it's good to recapitulate how the system works. It's hit/no hit. You can only search for a known license plate. There is therefore no mention of grass dunes in data of Jan and alleman or recording the behaviour of unsuspected citizens. Only an authorised investigating officer shall have access to the system following prior orders from the prosecutor, who shall check whether the requirements are met. It can only be used in serious crimes and fugitives. In criminal proceedings, the judge shall assess whether the public prosecutor has made an appropriate assessment and thus whether the evidence has been lawfully obtained. The system's logging. That is to say, who gets access to the system and when is registered. Anyone who does that unauthorized can face a penalty until they're fired. Only the registration plates are registered. If there is an unexpected driver in the picture, it will be blurred in the file. With the latter, we are not undividedly happy, where we are dealing with terrorist suspects or suspects of sexual crimes. Can't anything ever go wrong? Of course you can. Nothing is infallible, but if anything goes wrong in chasing criminals by the police, we don't say that the police should never pursue criminals again. Then you evaluate and see how it can be done better, just as this bill includes. The starting point is therefore very careful, so careful that someone with this system can prove his or her innocence or at least try to do so. I think the system is so careful that I wonder which side the critics are actually on. Are they on the side of society? Are they on the side of society, which must be protected from crime and terror? Are they on the side of victims and next of kin? Are they on the side of the police, who are trying to make the Netherlands safer against a rather low salary? Mr. Chairman. On the basis of this proposal, registration data can be kept for four weeks. Every term you meet is arbitrary, so so is this one, but it's kind of short for us. There are cases where a murderer has been convicted without the victim being found and the unsub remains silent. What unlimited and indescribable suffering is caused here by the next of kin? A longer retention period could perhaps bring a solution closer. The system is not blissful, but it can just provide that puzzle piece for the solution, can lead to rest for next of kin. Of course, we will increase that opportunity considerably if we extend the retention period to more than four weeks. The terrorism example I just gave, in which the perpetrator travelled through the Netherlands a year before the attacks, also indicates that a period of four weeks is far too short. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how he is asking about these four weeks, especially since many parties in the House of Representatives, who are now a majority after the March elections, wanted a much longer retention period. Those parties have a majority here in this House, by the way. Mr. Chairman. In England, the retention period is two years. They've brought it back from five to two years. They wouldn't have done that for no reason. The British therefore seem to have established in an evaluation that a two-year retention period makes sense. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the added value of extending the four-week retention period to that British two-year period? Is he prepared to inform us, as well as the House of Representatives, on the basis of these experiences and, if there is reason to do so, to come forward with proposals to extend that retention period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to welcome Mr Grapperhaus as the new Minister for Justice and Security. Today we are discussing the proposal to create a legal power for recording and storing vehicle registration data on public roads by means of cameras for the detection of certain offences and for the arrest of fugitive persons. Vehicle registration data means the registration number, location, time and photo recording of the vehicle. This weekend some reports were published in the media about the expansion of the ANPR cameras, including on the Dutch internal roads. And although we are talking in this Chamber today about recording and keeping registration data, today's bill clearly falls within a broader discussion on privacy, freedom and security. Respect for private life is essential for the freedom and security of citizens. It is therefore very important that legislation restricting the privacy of citizens for the sake of security should be subject to a strict necessity and proportionality test, precisely because my group has a high priority for security. The systematic scanning and storage of vehicle registration data by roadside cameras is a possible infringement of Article 10 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the ECHR: the right to privacy. Such an infringement may be justified if the retention of the relevant data is provided for by law, it serves a legitimate purpose and it is necessary in a democratic society. In other words, it must be necessary and proportionate. In fact, it is difficult to assess the necessity and proportionality of this legislative proposal. My group does not doubt that the storage of registration data could be useful for detecting and identifying suspects of crime. For example, it is expected that the mass storage of data could have a positive effect on the resolution of crime and the detection of suspects. However, the question is whether the means are proportionate to the purpose. The extent to which this effectiveness will prove itself is not yet clear and cannot be supported by hard figures. The examples given so far by the previous Minister are based on a very limited number of experiences. The Advisory Section of the Council of State notes that the four cases mentioned to illustrate the importance of the investigation were also the only four cases in the years 2009 and 2010 in which evidence obtained using ANPR played a role. The Section therefore questions the effectiveness of its work and concludes, in the light of experience with ANPR in the United Kingdom and the United States: "On the basis of the above, it cannot be said that there is such effectiveness that it necessarily requires the proposed new competence." Moreover, the question is how great the breach of privacy will also be difficult to assess, as the scale at which the fixed and mobile cameras can be deployed will be regulated in a general measure of governance. How can we assess and also check where cameras are placed in the road network, fixed or mobile? That is a first question to the Minister. Being useful or useful is not a legal criterion. Legislation must be necessary in a democratic society and therefore proportionate. We ask the Minister how we can assess this on the basis of the current information. Can he explain why the proposed measure is necessary and proportionate? Previous answers from the minister indicated that in public space, on our public roads, there is less so-called'reasonable expectation of privacy' and that the storage of registration data for four weeks is only a minimal breach of privacy. My group is questioning this. Firstly, the distinction between private and public space due to the rise of big data and the Internet of Things is increasingly fading, as the Scientific Council for Government Policy has recently argued in its report Big Data in a free and secure society. Privacy in public space used to be less an issue, but people are increasingly visible and followable through photos and digital tracks. As people become more systematically viewed, they start to behave differently. Uninhibitedness is decreasing, as the Rathenau Institute also writes. The public space is basically everyone's, and in it you can in principle move unobstructed and unwatched. The ANPR cameras have an effect on our freedoms. This confirms the need for strict compliance with the proportionality test, even in the case of something apparently innocent, such as the storage of registration marks. I'd like a response from the Minister. Secondly, the expert meeting already warned about the effects of large-scale data storage on privacy through what was called mosaic theory. Although a single picture of a car in a specific place on a public road does not mean a huge breach of a person's privacy, this, combined with other data, can display a very privacy sensitive image of a person's personal life. In a response, the former Minister indicated that this bill does not provide a basis for full verification of a person's behaviour, and that the ANPR data recorded under this bill are kept separately from the other data and for a limited period of time. But what about ANPR data from different places that can be connected to each other? What are the legal guarantees that no profiles of people are made? Does the Minister with the D66 Group consider that as long as the actual scale and coupling of cameras is unknown, there could be surveillance? Locations of cameras are very important in order to map aspects of one's personality or personal life. From highways may not be very distracting, but what about cameras near schools, churches, mosques, a ggz institution, a hospital or a gay meeting place? Privacy is needed to feel free and safe. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. My group sees here the risk of what is called function creep. That is to say, the use of a technology, a system or data for purposes for which it was not originally intended. Function creep runs counter to goal binding, which is an important starting point of privacy by design, which is also referred to in the European General Data Protection Regulation as data protection by design. The European General Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force in May 2018, states that the processing of personal data should be carried out according to the principle of data protection by design. This principle will have to be further developed in the years to come, but it will mean that processors of personal data will have to take technological and organisational measures to minimise the breach of privacy, for example through principles such as data minimisation and target binding. My group sees in this legislative proposal certain safeguards that could be placed under this principle, such as the horizon and evaluation clause. But a secure approach to data protection by design also requires a secure justification of the length of the retention period. Why, according to the Minister, is it necessary to store the data of, in principle, unsuspected citizens for specifically 28 days? Why not just scan in real time or save a day, a week or, for example, two weeks? Can the Minister explain why, for most of the crimes covered by this proposal, the 28-day deadline is necessary? I would particularly like to ask this in the light of the fact that this proposal affects innocent and unsuspecting citizens in particular and in the first instance. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he sees the present legislative proposal in the light of the ruling of the Court of Justice which was struck by the Data Retention Directive, the Digital Rights Ireland case of 2014. Here the European Court ruled on the storage of telecoms and location data of individual citizens: "The data stored can provide very precise information on the private life of those whose data are kept, such as the habits of daily life, the places of permanent or temporary residence, the daily movements or movements of other kinds, the activities exercised, social relations and the frequent social environments." End of quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	It's a good time for a question. I wonder if we've read the same law. I do not think that this system can be used at all to search for citizens' data if they are not suspected of a serious crime involving provisional detention. You are making a very big story about privacy, but there is no way to search for data from citizens who are not suspected of a serious crime. That's question one. I have just outlined the procedure for how the system works and what safeguards are in it. Is that enough or is that not enough for the D66 Group? And if it is not enough, what guarantees would you like more? Then maybe we can get D66 on board for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	I am happy to answer Mr Dercksen. I think we have read the same bill. If you look seriously at the ECHR, the protection of privacy, then the systematic and yet massive storage of data from basically unsuspected citizens is already a violation of the law. In this case, it is up to the legislator to explain why that would be a legitimate violation. At all, saving that data, whether it's for a day, for 28 days or two years, is already a possible violation. That needs to be explained. Then it doesn't matter whether or not they look inside. Location data is stored there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	A number of countries are already doing this. It is difficult to say that the United Kingdom does not belong to our Western society. They are already doing so, so clearly they do not weigh that violation of law so much. How does that relate to the purpose of this law, namely to detect really serious criminals, not someone who has stolen a role of licorice, but someone who has committed serious crimes or has the sense of terror? Then which side are you on as a political party?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	Firstly, it is good to know that the Netherlands is safer than ever in history. We're more likely to die of obesity than we die of an attack or a criminal activity. You just asked the question: which side are you on if you just emphasize that safety? What you have to add is that something else is lost if you focus more and more on safety. That might be a little more abstract than naming terrorism or crime, because that is about freedom, about autonomy, about being able to move you unwatched in public space. That public space belongs to all of us. If people want to violate that, that has to be explained. That is why we are asking the Minister to explain why this is necessary, because, quite frankly, we have not yet been able to find this convincing in the documents. And then it doesn't matter at all whether that happens in the United Kingdom. The evaluation of the WODC even refers to the United Kingdom, literally saying that there is no convincing evidence that it works either. It's for small felonies, but it's not for the bigger ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mr President. I don't know how you travel, but I'm coming by car. Chances are I just got shot at the Shell or driving here in the parking garage are pretty big. If I go to the grocery store, I'm on camera, too. If you come by public transport, you will at least be on HD cameras when it comes to the province of Utrecht. And then everyone really gets filmed and everyone can see that. Those images are stored, without this legislator really being taken seriously. Now we're gonna set up cameras to discover the routes of serious criminals, of possible terrorism, and then you're out. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr Dercksen says: of course we want the police to be able to do what they want. The tricky thing here is that not only those serious criminals are filtered out, but that of all citizens all passage data is stored. The question is a little bit how many criminals you want to catch to store massive data. I think that's the trade-off. I will follow up on my text, if the President will allow me. I just read a quote. The question I raised was whether this bill, if adopted, would stand before the Court of Justice. I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. My group has serious reservations about the proportionality of this bill, stresses the importance of privacy in public space and wonders whether the principles of data protection by design are sufficiently respected. In the above mentioned report, the WRR warned about "dataobesity," where the government should set a good example of less is more. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This minister said some time ago, when asked about his political ambitions, that many were called, but few were chosen. On behalf of our political groups, I speak on behalf of the SP Group, but also on behalf of the Animal Party, I welcome the fact that the Minister has said yes to his election and that he is prepared to take on the heavy office of Minister for Justice and Security. That's a sign of courage. After all, the Ministry is going through difficult times and is under strong criticism. So there's plenty of work to be done. I wish him wisdom and strength. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a proposal today to help speed up and simplify the detection of fugitive criminals. That's a good plan in itself. I also hope that the new minister's ambition is not only to increase the detection of criminals, but also to actually arrest criminals so that they are actually prosecuted and punished. In recent years, the D.A. and the police have been given increasing powers to track down offenders. However, the actual results of the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators were left behind due to a lack of detection and prosecution capacity at first instance and then on appeal, and then a lack of capacity to actually put the perpetrators behind bars. Let me just mention a few reports from the media of recent times. There is no detection capacity for investigating a liquidation case in Venlo. A head starter case in Arnhem was brought to trial only after a year and a half, which led to lower penalties for the perpetrators. After a call, my mailbox has been flooded with reports from victims who have been waiting for their case to be dealt with for a long time. I would like to share with the Minister the content of these messages. They show many people's concerns that something is not going well in tackling injustice in our society. As the Minister so beautifully said in his book on the rattles of our rule of law, free to Shakespeares Hamlet: "There is something rotten in the state of the Netherlands." It is time to listen to all the victims who ask for justice to be done. I would therefore like to hear what the Minister's objectives are to improve the lead times within the criminal justice chain, coupled with concrete deadlines and actions. Not everything needs to be done today. Will the Minister promise that he will return to this in writing? In doing so, he might be able to pay particular attention to the serious crimes of violence and vice. More generally, our political groups will appreciate the fact that during this term of office the Minister is effectively addressing the question of the rule of law. In this way, I believe that he will be able to contribute to restoring citizens' confidence in the rule of law and will have a preventive and repressive effect on the perpetrators, who can now continue to be free for too long. It would be nice if, in the near future, we could get proposals from this minister to get rid of these rattles, so that we can show off the beautiful rug that is supposed to be our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u15	I almost agree with everything Mrs Wezel has said, but it is not that we are likely to draw a different conclusion. Because if you use this system to get more information from suspects, it could speed up the process. Do you see that, and how much do you consider it to be in the context of the problems you have just outlined and which we both share?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u16	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. And I expect him to look forward to the debate on the state of the rule of law that we are going to have together here in this Chamber next spring. For the time being, we are pleased that this Minister has taken office. We are convinced that he will see it as a pleasant challenge if we lay the fire on him here in this Chamber where necessary. That is exactly what I want to do in dealing with the legislative proposal that is now being debated. I'm looking forward to his reaction. Looking at the legislative proposal before us, the question is whether the proposed measure is proportionate to interference in the right to privacy on the one hand and the objective of the detection of criminal offences on the other. Is the infringement of the right to privacy necessary in Dutch democratic society? Can the proposed measure be seen as an effective and sufficient means of achieving the objective of detecting criminal offences? Is the proposed measure proportionate? Our political groups are not convinced of this for the time being. It is still completely unclear how many cameras are involved and how massive the stakes will be. Therefore, it is not possible to assess the proportionality of this bill. Perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify this more clearly by now. In its opinion, the Advisory Section of the Council of State considered that the potential added value of ANPR for detection is very limited, that it is unlikely that the retention of passage data will automatically lead to more detection with ANPR, and that it requires a vision in an organisation that is ready to work in such a way that it can be effective. In other words, the travel movements of all motorists on the Dutch roads can be stored for years and used only so that the police can use them, but it is not yet clear whether they will have added value and whether they will lead to more detection, especially since the vision is lacking. The fact that these travel data can be registered does not mean that this has to be done and that this justifies the violation of the privacy of all drivers on the Dutch roads. I'd like the Minister's response. In my opinion, the Advisory Section of the Council of State rightly considered that the general statement in the explanatory statement that the proceeds of the preservation of no hits in a society which attaches great importance to increasing security and tackling undermining and organised crime does not yet make the effectiveness and therefore the necessity sufficiently convincing. At first glance, the bill seems to be backed up by all kinds of safeguards for all drivers on the Dutch roads. The draft law explains that the safekeeping, retention and use of registration data is only possible in the event of suspicion of a crime for which pre-trial detention is permitted, which is subject to a prison sentence of four years or more, for the purposes of detection in the event of suspicion of a serious traffic offence, for the arrest of a fugitive person, that the data are only kept for four weeks, that it is a strict target bond, that a test is carried out by the prosecutor and that consultation can only be carried out by authorised and trained investigators who are not responsible for the investigation. However, anyone who reviews the opinion of the Personal Data Authority of May 2017 to the Government on the draft implementing act sees that the present law, in conjunction with Articles 8 and 9 of the Police Data Act and the Implementing Decision, the registration data of non-suspects, once secured, can also be used for other purposes, can be provided to abroad and third parties and that the original rules no longer apply in the further processing. As I see it now, this bill opens the locks: an ongoing order under Articles 8 and 9 of the Police Data Act and is done. By definition, all investigations involve carrying out the day-to-day police task, and otherwise it falls within the scope of Article 9 "necessary for the investigation of the violation of the legal order." According to information from the ANP, there are already two places where the police already store data with an ongoing warrant, with the permission of a prosecutor. The spokesperson of the Public Prosecutor's Office at the expert meeting appointed this as nicely as "a very targeted storage of data, namely only data from the transport movements of license plates that pass through the ANPR cameras in the Netherlands." So these are almost all the transport movements of all motorists on the Dutch roads. Our groups are really going too far. This is a systematic data collection of all Dutch drivers, of which the majority has done nothing at all. It's about millions of license and travel records a day. I'd like the Minister's response. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for clear answers to the following questions. What exactly is going to be saved? All Automatic Number Plate Recognition data from all over the Netherlands or only from a particular city? How's that going? For what other purposes can this data be used? When can this data be provided to third parties and which third parties are involved? When can this information be provided abroad? When are the strictly defined uses referred to in Article 126j, third paragraph, criminal proceedings and the restrictions laid down in Article 126j, fifth paragraph no longer applicable? Can the Minister explain what is the added value for citizens of providing services for other purposes and to third parties and abroad? Will the Minister undertake to complete the draft implementing decision with the answers to the questions of the Personal Data Authority and submit the amended draft implementing decision to this Chamber? It is clear that our political groups consider this proposal to be completely inadequate for the time being. That is why I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, we would like to welcome the Minister to this House. We look forward to further fruitful cooperation. By putting justice first in the name of the Ministry, this cabinet already wants to show that it attaches itself to the rule of law, as we also heard from Minister Grapperhaus in our acquaintance. That is what my group is hopeful about. According to the government agreement, the cabinet intends to pay particular attention to the safeguards for the privacy of citizens, limited access, enhanced supervision, the need for retention periods, adequate data protection and security and a reporting and evaluation obligation. That sounds like music to us. These intentions may arise from the political preferences within the cabinet or the increasing disgust within society against large-scale storage and use of personal data; look at the referendum on the Wiv. But the vision can also be linked to the new legal reality, in which judges put an end to an unbridled collective rage without strict necessity and proportionality. All these developments make the debate an important test case today. We will taste the pudding carefully in terms of effectiveness, feasibility and legality. To start with the last one. The judgments of the Court of Justice and the ECHR on data retention have shaken Europe's foundations. The Court made Member States much more reluctant to store, store and exchange personal data. In its judgments Digital Rights, Watson and Tele2, it imposed significant limits on the use of personal data and user data. These restrictions focus specifically on the purpose of the measure, the duration of storage and the geographical area. But also the category of persons whose data are kept should be limited to those who are likely to be involved in serious crime. Because of all these constraints, EU ministers are currently considering the scope left by case law for the retention of communication or other user data and studying the impact on new and current legislation. Our Chamber has asked written questions about this and we are, of course, eagerly looking forward to answering them. However, while this study is still far from complete, the cabinet wishes the First Chamber to adopt the underlying bill already. My group does not think that that is logical. We would rather turn halfway than go completely astray, and that is what the Minister should also address. The Minister must therefore be sure to insist that the legislative proposal fits perfectly within the framework set by the European courts. According to the Court, even the aim of combating serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, is insufficient justification for general and undifferentiated retention of traffic data and location data. The proposal before us is aimed at solving many more forms of crime. The offences for which registration data may be consulted are not even all covered by the "serious crime" criterion. Think, for example, of small shoplifters with a four-year sentence on them, so that pre-trial detention can be imposed. In addition to the broad target criterion, the wide collection of personal data itself is problematic, regardless of the use of that data. Therefore, the proper regulation of access cannot fix a breach if it was committed by the collection. The Court considers it essential that the collection and retention of personal data of all citizens is the exception and not the rule. That is precisely why this limited application is so essential. We do not therefore see this limitation in terms of persons, because all cars passing through a camera are registered and not just those of persons of criminal importance. As far as time is concerned, there is a time limit, namely four weeks, and we are happy to support Mrs Bredenoord's questions on this point. The limitation in the locations is also very broad. In the Court's view, these should be areas at high risk of a crime being prepared or committed. However, the Government's explanatory notes show that locations with intensive traffic flows can also be identified. We have quite a bit of that in the Netherlands, so how strict is that limit? On Sunday we learned that the police are also going to register ANPR data along provincial roads. What does that mean for the application of the law, if it is adopted? Any more data storage? Cameras are getting cheaper and in the future every police car may be equipped with a camera. Such rapid developments, combined with rather vague legal criteria, make it difficult to limit them to what is strictly necessary. The draft law offers few tools for this, but also Article 3 of the draft AMM contains hardly any restrictive safeguards as a result of its broad wording. The more locations can be used, the greater the amount of recorded information on vehicle movements that are not relevant for the detection of crime or the arrest of fugitive persons. From the draft decision, my group points out that once requested registration data can also be used for other purposes, Mrs Wezel already gave it to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Can the Minister explain why, in such situations, safeguards are being dropped? What are the objectives? And which third parties are involved? Isn't this an all too easy lock to further processing of personal data and perhaps also to function creep? According to the Minister, the camera plan has only limited value, because the actual use of the cameras is finally decided by the competent authority. Our group sees this differently. That plan indicates the frameworks within which camera surveillance may take place. Motivation is therefore necessary that the possible locations meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality. My group is therefore surprised that the Chief Constable himself can determine the camera plan. A hunter doesn't let you decide for yourself in which areas and when to hunt. Why not, in the context of checks-and-balances, have the D.A. determine the framework, in consultation with the police? Or, perhaps even better, put the final responsibility on the Minister himself, as is the case with the Minister of Defence at the KMar? The Personal Data Authority may advise on the use of ANPR and the use of ANPR data, but is the Authority also asked for an annual opinion on the concept camera plan? Can the Minister explain more precisely the status of the camera plan and explain why it does not take the form of, for example, a ministerial arrangement? And can organizations or individuals stand up to the content of the plan or can they only do so against the actual use of cameras? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Then, Mr President, proportionality. About the possible breach of people's private lives, the Minister is reacting comfortably. The camera footage would only give very limited information about someone doing and leaving. We don't see it that way. The registration data, depending on the intensity of the surveillance and on how often someone is in such a location, provide information about a person's daily habits, whereabouts, the pattern of movements, and therefore also about the exceptions to that pattern. This can certainly give citizens the feeling of being watched in public space. We see clear similarities here with the Digital Rights judgment, although that concerned telephone and internet data. We also consider the argument that people are aware that they are on the public road to death. If I want to get from Arnhem to The Hague by car, I cannot choose whether or not to do so by public way. I'm gonna have to get on that public road. Mr. Chairman. The police may request the images of security cameras from private individuals, but according to the Minister, this is a waste of valuable time. This makes the legislative proposal somewhat vulnerable, because there are alternatives available and this becomes even more so as cars start to store more data. For example, the D.A. can obtain data from cars that have driven in the vicinity of a crime through car companies. The fact that it may be less cumbersome and convenient to have them at your disposal may not always outweigh the effect that many more people are storing the data and that in this way many more innocent people can be associated with crime. Mr. Chairman. Then the Court also laid down a set of procedural conditions. As far as the requirement of publicity is concerned, the Minister refers to the Official Journal. That does not seem to inform my group the most accessible way of citizens. Why not have a sign on access roads that surveillance is taking place? Furthermore, the Court requires that access by the competent national authorities to the retained data is, in principle, subject to prior supervision by a judicial authority. This bill provides for authorisation by the Public Prosecutor, but should this power not, in the light of the Tele2 judgment, be placed with the Judge Commissioner? I'd like an answer from the Minister. It is also questionable whether the destruction of the data after four weeks is sufficiently guaranteed. The Dutch government has shown in the past that it has not always been reliable in removing personal data, such as DNA material. The bill talks about automated removal, which of course is not yet automatic removal. How does the Minister guarantee that the government will comply with the law in this case? The illegal use of ANPR data over the past seven years gives little confidence. Finally, Mr President, effectiveness. Let us use the years of illegal practice of working with ANPR data, but of course also the pilots that have taken place, but as an advantage. What can we learn from these experiences? Coincidentally or not, on the day this bill was scheduled to take off as a hammer piece, the Ministry released a December 2016 report on the effectiveness of ANPR. That report gives a rather hopeless picture of the effectiveness of the detection of criminals. It turns out that it is an almost impossible task to filter the mountains of data that are available, let alone that hits can be followed directly and adequately. This only happened in less than a factor of 1,000 of the number of hits. Usually there is no one on the scene, a hit is not noticed and there is a lack of capacity anyway. With the law, of course, the amount of data will only increase. According to the WODC, ANPR contributes to the collection of fines, but hardly to detection. The number of, repeated, success stories can be counted on one hand. Nor does the WODC expect the legal retention period to increase this added value. In the United Kingdom, too, it appears that ANPR means significantly less for detection than for controls, despite a retention period of two to five years, depending on whether it is connected to crime. That retention period was initially also set at four weeks. Despite years of experience, neither the United Kingdom nor the United States of America have any significant added value to the detection of ANPR and since ANPR is particularly useful in detecting infringements such as outstanding fines and driving cancellations. An interesting finding from the report is that after all the passage data could no longer be stored, the number of hits increased. According to the WODC, abolishing the retention option led to much more reference lists, of the RDW, the CJIB, the CBR, for research, which allowed targeted searches to be carried out. For this reason, the idea was that reference lists were not necessary, because it was always possible to search afterwards. Thus, fewer data seem to improve the employability of the police capacity, while at the same time reducing privacy violations. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. The evaluation has not provided any information on the contribution to reducing crime, to deterring effects or to feelings of security or to any increase in the legitimacy of the police. These are targets that should be taken into account in the assessment of the effectiveness of ANPR, according to the WODC. Does the Minister share this finding and how will he incorporate it into the evaluation? All in all, the WODC concludes that the added value of ANPR for detection is limited and can be particularly effective for traffic and vehicle-related offences. It considers the current information, technological reliability and preparation in the police to be insufficient for the structural introduction of ANPR. The WRR notes that political enthusiasm for new technology is often based on arguments such as increasing security and increasing effectiveness and efficiency. These goals often appear to outweigh transparency, privacy security, freedom of choice and accountability. The Council therefore calls for an open and balanced balance between the "driving principles" (safety) and "ranking principles" (privacy). We are happy to endorse this plea. If this proposal is adopted, we hope that such an assessment will be made visible in any case during the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. The pudding has been tasted somewhat in recent years. This shows that we are dealing here with a Christmas pudding, and I am afraid that this will apply to the whole bill. It's a little early for this comparison, but that's my association now. The law has a long history and the lovers swear by it: no Christmas without pudding. But when it's finally on the table, I'm afraid he's proving far too powerful for the appetite we have and that he's damaging our health rather than protecting us. A bowl of yogurt probably works better after a meal. But, of course, we are waiting with interest for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. Enough alcohol over the Christmas pudding and then he's doing fine. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I too would like to congratulate the Minister on his appointment. I wish him good luck. We look forward to a good cooperation. Mr. Chairman. The present bill has a thorough preparation. Many questions have been asked by Members in two rounds. In addition, an expert meeting was held, which produced many valuable insights. In my group's view, this thorough preparation was necessary because, as has been said on many occasions, two interests are at stake. On the one hand, there is the importance of detecting serious crimes. On the other hand, there is the citizens' right to privacy. In the aforementioned expert meeting, this dilemma was clearly expressed by Mr Wolfsen of the Personal Data Authority. I quote: 'Free citizens in a free country must above all be able to move freely and massive surveillance does not relate to that, at least badly. But the country must also remain safe and the police must be able to do their job." That is the dilemma. Mr. Chairman. Currently, all ANPR data are stored without the legal basis. Legislation is therefore urgently needed in the view of my group. In the preparation for this debate, my group raised pressing questions about the need and scope of the collection and ex post consultation of ANPR data, about the safeguards relating to the storage and use of data and about the three-year horizon. In particular, we have asked whether the creation of the power to save so-called hits also no hits does not create a disproportionate breach of privacy and whether it may be in breach of Article 8 of the ECHR. Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for the careful and adequate response. Many of my group's concerns have been removed. The bill contains a series of safeguards. The operation of the law concerns only serious offences and the arrest of fugitives. The collection of data shall take place exclusively by public means and where this is strictly necessary on the basis of an annual camera plan to be established and published in the Official Journal. Data are not interchangeable with other bodies, are stored for up to four weeks and then automatically destroyed. Only authorised investigative officers shall have access to the data on the basis of a prior written order of the Public Prosecutor, which must carefully consider each case on the basis of necessity, scope of the search and the infringement thereby committed on the protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mrs Vlietstra mentions a number of safeguards which she feels are in line with the legislative proposal. She also says that it is always set in a camera plan and that it only happens when it is strictly necessary. What guarantees does it see that this is actually happening? I have another question. Mrs Wezel and I have pointed out that, once stored, data can then be further processed, used for other purposes and provided to third parties. What does she think of such opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u24	If Mrs Strik is okay with it, then I would like to finish my story, because at the end of the day I have some questions that lie in this same area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u25	Okay. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u26	The last guarantee I would like to mention is that it will be possible to establish an order for monitoring and for ex post control. For my group, these are all extremely important and necessary conditions and guarantees, which take into account the final definition of our position. Mr. Chairman. Technically it is possible to destroy data that does not give a hit with a reference file immediately. That's what's happening right now. Although we can understand the police's desire to keep no hits for a short period of time because they can provide valuable information at a later date, at the same time the privacy of a large group of road users is at stake. The expert meeting referred to above showed that there are considerable differences of opinion between speakers as to the extent to which the retention of no hits is contrary to Article 8 ECHR. In recent days, a number of organisations have also stressed the lack of necessity and proportionality in the legislative proposal. Both in the reply and in the further reply, the Minister goes into this extremely important point in detail by explaining the differences between the present legislative proposal and some of the ECHR's rulings. Those differences concern purpose, scope, geographical demarcation, retention period, awareness and access to the data. On the basis of that comparison, the Minister concludes that the bill is not contrary to Article 8 ECHR. My group is in agreement with this conclusion at the moment. My group still has some additional questions about the implementation of the law, including the draft implementing act. It is not only on paper that all safeguards for the protection of privacy must be laid down, especially if they are to be respected. How is it ensured that the stored data has actually been destroyed after four weeks? Who is responsible for ensuring that an oral order for consultation by the Public Prosecutor is issued in writing within three days? How is data collected prevented from being shared with other bodies and also abroad? And what if all this doesn't happen? The draft implementing decision provides for an annual privacy audit. My group from the Minister would like to hear how and by whom this audit is carried out. My group would like to be able to take note of the annual results of the privacy audit. We ask the Minister to say that this audit is also offered to this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Another point concerns the announcement of the so-called camera plan. The Minister has indicated that publication is made by publication in the Official Journal. My group can imagine that not every citizen consults this newspaper every day. Mrs. Strik mentioned that as well. What other possibilities does the Minister see for informing citizens that ANPR data are being collected along the road where he drives? A third point to which we would like to hear the Minister's response concerns the central storage of data. The explanatory notes to Article 9 of the draft implementing act indicate that ANPR data recorded pursuant to Article 126y are centrally stored and separated from "other ANPR and police data', which are processed pursuant to Articles 8 and 9. What is, my group asks, the distinction between 'ANPR data' and 'other ANPR data'? Is it the last of the ANPR data that has been established that they can continue to be used in an investigation and which are therefore covered by the Wpg? I'd like some clarity on this point. Our final question concerns the definition of horizons. The new article shall expire after three years, unless otherwise provided by royal decree. To this end, a study report on the effectiveness and effects of the law is prepared by the WODC on behalf of the Minister. My group would like to hear from the Minister what his ambition is: when does the Minister see sufficient effectiveness and effectiveness? What result does the Minister pursue and when is he satisfied? In the reply dated 8 March 2017, the Minister indicated that consultations are already taking place with the WODC on the approach to the evaluation. We're eight months away, and the law, if this Chamber agrees, will be introduced in eight weeks. Can the Minister indicate what arrangements have been made with the WODC? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to join with colleagues in welcoming our Minister. Not only is he our minister, but he is our minister. I express all confidence in effective and constructive cooperation with him. Madam President. My group has great expectations of the new cabinet's approach to undermining crime. The coalition agreement contains confidence-building passages, for example on strengthening the criminal justice chain, tackling cybercrime, combating terrorism, banning motorcycle gangs and last but not least an integrated approach to undermining and organised crime, which our group in this House has called for on several occasions. We therefore look forward with great interest to the elaboration of these proposals in the coalition agreement, in particular the undermining law and the undermining fund. Madam President. If the police and the judiciary, together with many other organisations in this country, are to be able to make our country safer, they must also have effective means to prevent, identify and combat crime. The draft law which is the subject of this debate offers such an opportunity. It adds a system to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It has been said many times today that it is possible to record and store vehicle registration data in a registration register. With this proposal, so-called passage data may be entered in the registration register and used within four weeks for the detection of a specific crime and for the arrest of fugitive persons. But every advantage has its drawbacks: the mass capture and retention of data means a significant violation of privacy, especially when it also respects citizens who are not suspected of any criminal offence. That is why, in the written procedure, we asked questions about how the data recorded will be monitored, how the processing and destruction will be controlled and how it will be monitored. My group believes that there should be very good arguments to justify an infringement of the privacy of so many citizens. This is the case if the means pursued is proportionate and necessary. Following the criticism of the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority, at that time still known as the Personal Data Protection College, the original legislative proposal has been amended and its scope limited. My group's concerns have been adequately addressed during the written procedure and also by the answer given by the Minister. For my group, this legislative proposal, which has been in operation since 2013, has now provided sufficient safeguards to give us the confidence of careful handling of the recorded data. Of course, my group also likes to hear from this new minister that he is serious that these safeguards will be strictly respected by all those involved and that he will also actively monitor them, starting with the timely and clear announcement to the citizen that and where data will be recorded. Furthermore, my group would like to hear that cameras are only placed at locations that are relevant for detection, that the data will be stored separately and automatically destroyed after four weeks, that they will not be made available to other bodies, that the nature of the data is limited to the latter, that it is also mentioned earlier, that registration number, location, vehicle and time, that facial recognition is prevented, that access to the data is allowed only after an order from a prosecutor, that access is entrusted only to authorised officials who have a unique code, that access is possible only for the detection of crimes for which preliminary detention is available and for the retention of fugitive persons, that the logging is automatically recorded and last but not least that a privacy audit is to be carried out annually. In addition, we know that the functioning of the bill is limited to three years and will be evaluated after two years. As a member of my group, and now there is a lubberian sense, but I am a big fan of the former Prime Minister, who wishes to say to my group once again that he will be watching these points closely, I would like to say that our group, considering everything, has come to the conclusion that it is a good thing that, following the adoption of this bill, the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will be able, after years of preparation, to use this new means of detection for the detection of crimes and the arrest of fugitive persons, while the violation of privacy which this means, without any doubt, also entails, is sufficiently protected to allow security for privacy to be used here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Rombouts, you were out of breath from that long sentence, but you still have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u30	I understand that if you pronounce it yourself, this is difficult. But Mrs Vlietstra just asked the government what should come out of the evaluation in order to assess whether it could be done further or not. You are already expressing your support for this in advance. That is fine and clear to the Minister, but I understand that this is done under conditions, at least with the important point that an evaluation is being carried out. Could you please indicate what should be in the evaluation for the CDA group to say: well, we are moving forward? On what points will you assess the evaluation if: well, then it becomes a different story for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u31	That's an understandable question. I understand that Mrs Strik thinks my analysis is a bit economical. I found her Christmas menu, yogurt, a little economical, but that aside. We will review the evaluation of what is already sufficiently described in this draft law and in the opinions surrounding it. Will it prove to be a proportionate means? Will the use in the first two years show that it was necessary? Two years is of course quite a short period, but if the duration of action is only three years, then I understand that you will have to evaluate after two years. We will go through all the safeguards that I have just deliberately listed, see if it has been complied with. We will not only use the evaluation for this, but also the privacy audits, which I assume we will have access to. Those aspects justify to us that you allow security here for privacy. Whether you want to believe it or not, the current chief of police was once "my" among major quotes, chief of police in Northeast Brabant. He predicted ten years ago that we would need this tool to ensure safety in the country. I've been in touch with him about his prophetic gift one of these days. If he indicated ten years ago that we would need this, also looking at what was happening abroad, and if we find together that this bill started in 2013 at least, then the formal trajectory started, then we have been doing this for five or six years. Then we'll have to do the proof of the pudding sometime. As far as we're concerned, that's not yogurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u32	We can find something in the middle, between Christmas pudding and yogurt. You state that it must be objectively established that it is necessary and proportionate. According to you, this also requires the way in which those ANPR data are recorded over the next two years when they are used. I assume that the police must always state why there is no alternative and why it is necessary. This is important for us in order to be able to test how it has really been used and whether the need arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u33	You're asking an almost rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u34	Yes, but I'd like your confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u35	Let me say the following. There are actually not so many laws to which we immediately link a horizon clause. That's what happened here. That actually says that we all, including the initiators, want to see, after a short period of time, whether it is still proportionate and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u36	The initiator of this bill is the government, but well, it doesn't matter. There is another question from Mrs Wezel. Mr Rombouts, it's like Heintje Davids, you have to go back every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u37	Back and forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u38	He's a popular man. I have another question for Mr Rombouts. Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Strik were just talking about it. I have indicated that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has asked questions about the provision to third parties for other purposes abroad. That's what the SP is worried about. What is the position of the CDA on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u39	I think that question is very understandable. With you, I'll wait and see what the Minister says about that. I understand, of course, that you have to work across borders when it comes to terrorism and serious crime and that you sometimes have to share data. But if we say inland that we are not going to share the data with the Tax Administration, the provinces or others, then there must be quite a lot going on if you are going to share it with foreign agencies. I'm curious to hear what the Minister has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u40	Looks like you can actually sit down now, Mr Rombouts. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. My group also congratulates the Minister on his appointment and looks forward to fruitful cooperation with him and the government. I should also like to congratulate him on having the opportunity to speak for the first time in this House today about such a fundamental and materially important legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief in terms of content. Following the decision to vote on this bill without a plenary debate, a number of political groups have asked for a debate to be held on the grounds that a very recent development in the case law would shed new light on the matter. Of course, my group did not oppose this. After all, if the legislative proposal were to prove to be flawed at the eleventh hour, it would certainly apply to a careful legislative process: it would be better to turn halfway than to go astray. I fully agree with Mrs Strik on that point. What is therefore important here and now is the assessment of the possible impact of the latter case law on this legislative proposal. As far as my group is concerned, the subsidiarity and proportionality of this proposal are no longer under discussion, as this would largely result in a repetition of moves. The review of the Tele2 judgment in the light of Digital Rights Ireland and the Watson judgment should now be considered, as requested in the letter of the Chambers J&V and I&A/JHA of 5 October on data retention. Especially in view of the description in the more detailed reply of the five safeguards in this legislative proposal, precisely on the handling and use of registration data, we are not yet convinced by the arguments of the initiating groups for this debate that this proposal should be reconsidered. We therefore look forward to the government's position. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Knip. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank God I'm popular too, Mr. Chairman. That reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u44	That is why I would like to put a question to Mr Knip. You mentioned recent developments in case law in Europe. To our surprise, a new development was added. On the day the proposal was planned as a hammer piece, a report was issued by the WODC on the effectiveness of current ANPR practices. That was a bit older report. It's over six months old, but it only got out then. That report is quite critical of the extent to which ANPR is and can be effective for the detection of crime. I take it you've taken the same study. I would like to know what the VVD Group thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u45	We have indeed taken this study. You could indeed say that a number of things lead to reflection. We've been talking a few times about the proof of the pudding, Christmas pie and what's more...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u46	Christmas pudding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u47	Christmas pudding. I think we should start doing it now. You can always make assessments and say 'it will work or not work' on the basis of limited experience, but my group no longer needs yoghurt with alcohol, but a bill that becomes and can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u48	Then I have one last question. You're all in favour of it, but you do say the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Does that mean that this evaluation is still very important to you? Is that another new point for you to assess whether we can proceed with this legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u49	As I said, it is not an obstacle to us. But you should be very involved in the assessment in three years' time whether or not you want to extend that law, also in the light of what Mr Rombouts said about that horizon clause, which we also asked for in the first period. In this sense, the new report is also extremely useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u50	Okay, so it's not an unconditional yes. But you think that the review in three years' time will be a serious marker to see if we should continue with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mrs Strik knows the open mind of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u52	Okay. I gotta tell you something about that Christmas pudding. There are little silver charms in a real Christmas pudding. That's where you can bite your teeth to pieces. Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u53	I also have a question for Mr Knip. I understand the VVD wants to start immediately using the license plate records to track down suspects. That is, of course, already happening, and that is also a good aim. But how does the VVD look at third party use for other purposes abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u54	Like Mr Rombouts, I look forward to the Minister's reply. I'd like to hear that. In itself, it is a relevant question. I must confess that I do not know the answer to that myself immediately, so that is why I want to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Knip. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u56	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u57	Madam President, thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that it is an honor and a pleasure to have my parliamentary speech debut, here in your Chamber today, other than answering oral questions. I have in the past exercised a profession in which public speeches were on the agenda, but I would like to admit that, unfortunately, in practice, we do not encounter the legal depth that is common to your Chamber. You are the constitutional conscience of our democracy. I believe that the emphasis placed in the first period on the compatibility of this bill with legal principles is also evidence of this. I would therefore like to thank the spokesmen and you, Madam President, for the depth of the debate, which we hope to get further, but also for the very kind words that have been spoken in my direction. I hope, of course, that we can work together in the coming years, which will be seen as fruitful. With the word "fruit" in the word fertile I would almost get to the quite often mentioned Christmas pudding, were it not that my great-grandfather was of German farmland and we still celebrate in the Weihnachten and Heiliger Abend family. And there, as you will understand, Christmas pudding is not in stock. Every year it is a surprise, however, when the father or mother has sounded the bell and one can see the Christmas tree for the first time, to see a multitude of beautiful ornaments in it. I would almost like to compare the questions in this Chamber with them, but I promise you that I will not go back to this comparison but come to the point. The ANPR legislative proposal regulates the storage of vehicle registration data when vehicles pass a camera along the public road. Registration data may be kept for four weeks, and during that period the registration numbers may become available to the police and the judiciary for specific search tasks, very limited specific search tasks. Such use shall be subject to strict conditions of access to, and use of, those registration data. That bill is very important for the detection of crime. License records can provide important clues. Suspects can be captured, and suspects can be excluded. It may also contribute to the identification of the suspect's whereabouts, and it may help to determine whether more suspects were involved in a particular offence. It may be very important in the detection of serious crimes involving vehicles, either because the crime was committed using a vehicle or because a vehicle has been used to flee or cover tracks. It may also be important in situations where vehicles are involved themselves, in the case of vehicle theft. You can think of serious offences such as violent robberies, kidnappings, cargo theft, muggings, ram- and plundering and life crimes. All of this is, of course, the element of privacy. That, I think, is the main issue today: the balance between, on the one hand, the detection, in which there is an element of protection of citizens, and, on the other hand, privacy, in which there is an element of protection of the individual citizen. You will not have missed the fact that, of course, I entered this legislative process a little later, but I can tell you that I fully support the result I am explaining here today. This is because there has already been a very careful debate in the House of Representatives, in which several changes have been made. The first letter of amendment states that only authorized investigators may access the data and that data must be permanently destroyed after four weeks. In a second letter of amendment, amendments were made to the judgments of the Court of Justice. Amendments were also adopted by the PvdA and the VVD on a careful evaluation and by the Christian Union on the front line of the Implementing Decision and the Royal Extension Decision. There are many safeguards in this bill. I finally came to a layered sum of no less than ten guarantees. The power must not be used lightly or lightly. This can only be done in the event of suspicion of a serious criminal offence or the tracing of fugitives, and only by order of the Public Prosecutor. Another guarantee: the data is stored separately from other data. And I have just said a number of things about the change in the House of Representatives about those special authorized investigators. The legislative proposal has a very good one, and I can say that the best balance has been found between the importance for society on the one hand and the privacy of citizens on the other. In our society, where technologies are developing and crime is developing, the police must keep up and use the means to detect crime. We in society must also dare to balance the interests of detection and privacy. That is what the rule of law requires of us. I would like to point out that this bill contains a further horizon: the law will expire in three years' time, unless the government decides to extend the law. I will say something at the end of this debate about what has been asked for and what should be an evaluation of my ambitions. However, as far as this consideration is concerned, it really is a very careful legislative proposal. Prior to the expiry of that horizon, an evaluation will be sent to your Chamber in which both effectiveness and privacy aspects will be considered. On the basis of all this, I hope that we will be able to see together that the ANPR Act has made an important contribution to the investigation and that the law has shown sufficient safeguards for privacy protection. In the meantime, as has already been announced, I will send you the annual privacy audit so that you will also be kept informed in the meantime of this aspect. Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank those Members who have just spoken on the legislative proposal for the questions they have put and for their support. With regard to those who have spoken critically or have otherwise asked supplementary questions, I hope that this treatment can lead to them joining the legislative proposal. I now come to the answers to the questions put. I would like to try to do so as much on a subject as possible. I'll start with the subject of privacy. Mr Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip-Knip. I assume that this is the very recent PNR opinion of the EU Court of Justice of 26 July 2017. Other case law to which, of course, is referred, on Digital Rights and Tele2, dates back to the end of 2016 or before and has already been dealt with in detail by my predecessor in the reply. Now, that PNR opinion of 26 July 2017 was about whether the agreement with Canada on Passenger Name Record could pass the test of criticism. I'll get two things out of that. First of all, something which is precisely an endorsement of the starting point of the legislative proposal. The mere fact, according to the Court of Justice, that data is kept of unsuspected persons does not mean that there is a breach. I quote with your permission in English: "The agreement there does not exceed the limits of what is strictly necessary, merily because it permits the systematic consideration and use of the PNR data of all air passengers." The Court therefore makes it very clear that the fact that PNR data are systematically retained by all passengers does not in itself mean that there is a breach. That is an important point to make. The second which I take from the opinion of the Court of Justice concerns the safeguards that are being reviewed in the judgment. These are, moreover, the well-known key elements that had been highlighted earlier by the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the EU in the cases mentioned above. As a lawyer, I think that's what I'm talking about, this Canadian agreement: on many points it went wrong. If you take those testicles of case law and pass this bill, then this bill will satisfy, for example, my predecessor has already shown in detail in the reply, on all points in the tests of both European Courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thanks for the answer. I have the idea that not only the Court's opinion on PNR is important, but also the Tele2, Watson and Digital Rights judgments. Even if your predecessor has already answered this in the written rounds, I will pass those criteria in my first term. I used it precisely as a review framework to indicate that there is still tension here and there. For example, the Court has expressly stated that a general and undifferentiated collection and storage of user and transport data cannot even be justified for the purpose of serious crime. The Court has said that many restrictions must therefore be imposed. I'm passing those restrictions. It may not be that bad in four weeks' time, but in terms of location and given the fact that their data are recorded for all people, there are good reasons for doubting the conformity with these judgments. I hope, however, that the Minister will go into these points further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u59	I would, of course, like to comment on this, but I would like to put the following first. The basic principles of the judgments have now been discussed in detail. First of all, it's about the legitimate purpose. The Court stated in the Tele2 judgment that in itself the detection of crime is a legitimate objective. So we're past that barrier. What it comes down to afterwards is the proportionality test. The Court then lays down criteria relating to geographical limitation, retention periods and substantive and procedural elements. Then I'm gonna pass this bill and say this out loud. This bill provides for a short retention period of four weeks. There must be an authorization from a state's attorney. This should lead to a written request from the investigating officer to the specially authorised investigative officer. This will be a select company, which will also receive a very personal authentication. Then the next thing is that this request can only be made if it is demonstrably related to specific crimes, as I described earlier. Then it is also the case, let us not forget that this is only a question of registration information. So no underlying personal information is given yet. Then it is also stored separately. If you put that past the Court's bar on Tele2 and Digital Rights, then this is, I think, a very careful, purely balanced proposal. Some critics who I have heard here in this Chamber today wonder whether the retention period is not too short. No. Perhaps, Madam President, I could have answered that question right away. Why four weeks? Two amendments were tabled in the House of Representatives: one in six months and one in two years' time. Both amendments were rejected by the House of Representatives. We have four weeks to join what is applicable to camera surveillance under the Municipal Act. Moreover, that is also the deadline in Belgium. This also seems to be a very reasonable consideration: a limited period for detection purposes and then destroy everything. I have listed the whole list once again, and I think that the criteria here are favourable. Of course, the fact that Tele2 was different had to do with the fact that it was not just about telecommunications data, so for example, collecting only numbers. No, it was also about the fact that data from conversations became known. So it became clear not only that I had called your number, but also what we had discussed with each other and the like. I am not going to go into this in too much detail, but I think that goes much further and farther.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u60	I also disagree with your predecessor that this is indeed a general, undifferentiated storage of data. Your predecessor, and perhaps you do, said: no, it is not, because that only happens to people who pass certain cameras. This is undifferentiated, because it is precisely because there is no difference between people who are associated with any criminal offence and innocent citizens. There is still the point that there is no restriction. I would also like to point out that the Court of Justice is expressly talking about serious crime. Even in that case, this general and undifferentiated storage is not justified. Of course, the term "serious crime" is also used. The minister just said it's only about serious crimes. I really wonder if he can sustain that in the case of crimes for which remand is permitted. That can sometimes even be about shoplifting. The question is whether we are not too broad with our criteria to allow such general, undifferentiated storage. I'd like to come back to the more precise answers later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u61	Madam President, you will forgive me, but I hope it will be reasonable. I still have a little feeling of the 2 for 12-quiz: I have to find the right answers. But I also took a close look at the serious crimes in advance, because I thought it was an interesting legal question. This has already been discussed in detail in the reply, but still. In a European context, the distinction is made between "offences" and "crimes" offences, "crimes" and "serious crimes" offences of a certain seriousness. It is left to the national legislator to indicate when serious crimes are involved. The Court of Justice gives examples, but does not define that concept. Crimes, for which pre-trial detention has been granted, can be classified as serious crimes, at least as serious crimes. We have an extensive campaign in the Netherlands in the field of high-impact crime, the crime very close to the people, such as home invasion and street robbery. The fact that we call this high-impact crime is because it has a huge impact on their lives for the citizens concerned if it happens to them. I think that's serious crimes. My predecessor felt the same way. That is a definition of serious crimes to which the Court of Justice and the EU allow us space. I support that, too. Finally, the differentiation. I believe that there is indeed some differentiation. That has to do with the point of what is the public road, somewhat denounced by one of the questioners, because you do not have much choice. That's not entirely true, because there are many roads leading to Rome. Apart from that, there is a certain differentiation in whether or not I use that public road. I don't know if you think that's a very far-reaching differentiation. I would like to go with you if you say that this may not be the case, but I would like to return to the fact that this bill offers so many safeguards in terms of protecting the privacy of the individual citizen that this is much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u62	There are a lot of safeguards for storage in the first instance. The main problem, in my view, is as follows. Once stored, it can be used for all kinds of crimes, but, as I said, it can also be given to third parties for other purposes. Then all the safeguards suddenly turn out to be thrown overboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u63	For this provision to third parties, I come back to the safeguards contained in both the legislative proposal and the resulting decision. If the ANPR data meet the search request and are therefore relevant to the search investigation, I keep repeating that this only plays in a very limited number of criminal offences, then they may be processed further. Then it's regular police records. Take a fugitive bank robber. At node Oudenrijn..................................................................................................... As a result, the police can determine the fugitive of this robber, let's say, until northeast Brabant. There is another no hit with the camera. We don't know that yet, but at least the car is being spotted. Eventually, they'll be able to track him. This is not so much a means of providing the search warrant, but it facilitates detection in a very important way. The license plate records of the fugitive bank robber will then be included in the relevant investigation. If by a third, for example, you mean the hoisting service that the bank robber's car is supposed to be picking up for investigation, or the NFI is supposed to do that investigation on the car, then you are absolutely right. But I find it, if at some point we are out of all guarantees and we have a serious criminal, partly thanks to that data in an investigation, then just police records. That's different from what you're suggesting, as if any third party with those license plate records could make a run for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u64	I think it's a good point that the ANPR data is being used to catch that bank robber. But what happened, and that's what the DA told us at the meeting here, is that all the data is stored, so of all the drivers on all those roads. This means that all information stored then relates to police data and that such police data can be provided to third parties for other purposes. Those are also the registration records of all the other drivers on the Dutch roads during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u65	If you will allow me, I will use this reaction immediately to give an answer to what Mrs Bredenoord asked about what the legal guarantees are that no profiles will be made. The law precludes the creation of profiles, I will come back to this on the basis of a specific search question in the system. Then we come to a search question that is related to serious crimes. This is all very explicitly laid down in Article 126y, third paragraph, Code of Criminal Procedure where it states: exclusively. It may only be carried out in the context of a specific investigation into a serious criminal offence or the arrest of a fugitive. So it's not like the police are gonna do things with the license plates of innocent civilians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u66	I refer to the report of the Personal Data Authority, which states that data may be provided to third parties for other purposes, for example to third parties abroad, and that the articles mentioned by the Minister do not apply to those benefits. Questions have been asked about that. In any event, what the Minister says does not correspond to the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u67	Here's what I'm gonna do. Foreign applications are also subject to the same criteria. These are therefore the same kind of limited offences that apply in the Netherlands. To this end, the same safeguards of care apply, which also apply to the search requests from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u68	I will come back to the answer on the 28-day retention period. One of our questions and concerns was why 28 days is a reasonable retention period. If I heard correctly, the Minister's answer was that this is a reasonable, careful retention period because it is in line with municipal regulations and because that is how it is done in Belgium. I would like to hear some more substantive reasons why this is a reasonable consideration. Why hasn't a different term been chosen, for example only real time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u69	That was part of my answer, I must admit. I also pointed out that it was discussed in the House of Representatives. Amendments have even been tabled which have extended the deadline to six months and two years, but they have not. This means that there is no support in society for a period of more than six months. Next, the consideration of the reasonable time-limit for detection is the possibility of actually doing something with those no hits, on the other hand, the proportionality with regard to the fact that all these data are taken into account. We find four weeks a reasonable period within which the search should be able to get far. We have indeed also looked at how things are arranged elsewhere in the Netherlands or with our southern neighbours. In the three-year evaluation, we're going to look at it further. I was waiting for your colleague, Mr Dercksen, to get up, but he has already done so, and would ask: why such a short time? There is a balance that now comes to four weeks, once again taking into account the fact that the House of Representatives has said: at least less than six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u70	I think we agree that one of the key questions is whether it is a proportionate breach of privacy. I therefore believe that the 28-day deadline requires a very clear statement of reasons. The shorter the retention period, the smaller the infringement is relative to the infringement. Why should this deadline not be set at 14 or 5 days? Is there anything else you can say about that? I think that you will then give some answers to Mr Dercksen's possible question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u71	I do not want to deny him the right to have his own answer to any of his questions, so I shall confine myself to your question. I note that the assessment of all these interests shows that you must have a time limit in which the detection can make good use of the data. I say 'use well', because 'optimum use' of that data would mean that you would indeed have to keep them for two years, as is currently the case in the United Kingdom. We therefore do not need the best possible use in the eyes of the investigating authorities. A shorter period than four weeks will soon embarrass the detection because it is not the case that everything becomes clear in the first days and that you can use all those no hits usefully. We know that from experience. I was just setting the example of someone who's been a fugitive and whose route you want to determine. You're really gonna have to have a reasonable time in the search. Anyway, you do have a point if you ask: can you prove that empirically? I can't do that right now. This also simply has to do with the fact that we have to gain experience in the next three years. The argument of the tracking device that it should at least be a reasonable period of time because you cannot say immediately the next day that you have solved it, as a colleague of yours suggested, at least seems valid enough to use it relatively short-term in the eyes of the tracking device.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u72	Those amendments were tabled before the March elections. In the meantime, if I may follow the Minister's reasoning, there is social support for extending the deadlines, because the parties who supported the amendments now have a majority in the House of Representatives. Have I understood correctly that you don't want to do anything about those four weeks? Would you like to involve this very strongly in the evaluation announced, also in conjunction with the experience in Great Britain?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u73	I'm going to reveal something of what I wanted to say at the end about my ambitions. We must, of course, determine in three years' time whether this has actually had a positive effect on detection, or whether we can actually say that we are well within the limits of this proportionality, and whether it has really worked out that way. In that context, you will also encounter those four weeks. In three years' time, we might be able to establish that it works, but if you were to extend that deadline, it would be much better. Mr President, with your permission, I will continue with the answer. Ms Vlietstra of the PvdA asked for the distinction between the ANPR data and the other ANPR data in the decision. We have ANPR data collected under this jurisdiction. Those ANPR data, as I said, are going to be stored separately. There are separate rules for this. There are also other ANPR data, which are recorded, for example, under Article 3 of the Police Act because they are on a reference list. To that end, the Implementing Decision shall not apply. So these are other ANPR data. It is a question of introducing separate, stricter rules for the data retained under this legislative proposal. Let me also reply immediately to Mrs Vlietstra's question about monitoring the destruction. The ANPR data will be deleted automatically. That's what the system does. ICT will be extensively tested for this before using ANPR. The annual audit will also focus on data destruction. In order to meet the concerns of your Chamber, I will ask the Chief Constable if he can carry out an additional human check in the initial phase to check whether the automatic destruction functions structurally. "Humanly" is then meant in the sense of: by humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u74	Does that also refer to the information that has been secured? My experience is that there's a lot of residual information from search. This information is also present and is not being destroyed. With regard to this data, can you undertake that its data for which an order is issued... shall also be destroyed within a specified period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u75	If you are referring to information that has been issued with that special authentication only for serious crime, for those serious crimes, at the request of an investigative officer, after authorisation, I say: that information will end up in the investigation. The ANPR data that's still in the system is being deleted, but that information is in the search, so I can't... that information is in the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u76	Then, of course, there is a lot of no-hit information in that criminal investigation from citizens who have nothing to do with that criminal investigation. It's the same as taps. There's a lot of wire calls. How do you deal with that? How do you deal with the no-hit information of all those other people who had nothing to do with it? That information will be in the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u77	No, no, I don't see it that way. That's not in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u78	You can also come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u79	I shall come back to that later, but I do not think it is in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u80	You're getting a lot of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u81	No, but he's not gonna get the BOLO. Who gets focused...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u82	You're getting a lot of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u83	No, Mrs. Wezel. Minister, if you have anything else to say about it, you can do so in the second term. This is also the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mrs Wezel asked about the added value of providing abroad for other purposes. In any case, I still have an answer to a question she has put. Data may not be provided, I have already said that, but I say it again for purposes other than those included in the bill, not even abroad. This should also be done abroad only for the two specific objectives mentioned. All this is also laid down in the implementing decision. I think it is important that we should be able to give this information once again, on request, after an authorization from the Public Prosecutor, for example, in the event of an attack in Belgium and there are indications that the perpetrator or co-suspects have also been in the Netherlands or fled to the Netherlands, or in the event that the Belgian authorities request registration of the suspect's vehicle during the period during which it might have been in the Netherlands, in order to verify his movements. Mrs Vlietstra asked: what is the Minister doing to ensure the privacy of citizens and how is it ensured that the legal rules are respected? Mrs. Strik asked the same question. Firstly, it is very important that these data are stored separately. There's no access for ordinary detectives. Only detectives specifically authorized by me can do that. A search request can only be introduced in the context of an ongoing investigation or to apprehend a fugitive convicted person. I repeat, the D.A.'s orders are always required. I would like to stress that other questions are not possible. We're gonna report on that every year in the privacy audit. Why isn't it necessary to involve a judge commissioner? This question has also been discussed in detail in the reply, so I shall confine myself to a somewhat shorter answer, with your permission, Madam President. This situation is different from that of the Court's Tele2 ruling, partly because of the nature of the data. I've just explained something about that. Those were really very clear to the person to trace phone records. ANPR is not about confidential telecommunications. As a result, the appreciation of the importance of privacy is different. The second letter of amendment stipulates that there must be an order from the district attorney. Then the provision is also in line with the use of special investigative powers, for which the prosecutor is also the deciding authority. Then there is the report of Regioplan commissioned by the WODC, which was published last summer, on intelligent applications of ANPR. The report addresses existing applications and also refers to the previous DSP report. The report states, referring to DSP's report, that information does not always lead directly to the clarification of a crime, but can contribute to the investigation by pointing out persons who were or were not close to the crime. The added value of the legislative proposal is that data that could provide important evidence for detection is retained. The added value of this bill for detection will, of course, only be really visible once we have done that evaluation. Finally, I would like to quote page 2 of that report. There is under the heading Methods of investigation and limitations: "The research was carried out through literature study and interviews, with the focus on interviews with Dutch police officers. The investigation therefore has clear limitations: there may be new developments that are not reported in public sources, because they are contrary to societal views or not to make criminals wiser than necessary; [and] the investigation focuses to a large extent on police applications. Furthermore, at the moment there are many new (organising) developments in the Dutch police force that still need to be completed and whose operation and effectiveness still need to be demonstrated. The investigation may therefore have come too early." I agree with that last sentence. It has also been said that I believe by Mrs Bredenoord, who, in my opinion, paraphrased the Council of State, that the examples of case law... Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u85	You take the report off a little easy, I must say. The report has come out under the responsibility of the WODC and I think there is quite a lot of interesting information that has not been taken out of the air. Some of them are facts, too. On the basis of these facts, I find the conclusion rather worrying, namely that it has very limited added value in terms of its contribution to detection at the moment. The researchers rightly make the reservation that this is now partly because the bill has not yet been adopted, but they are also looking at the experience in the United Kingdom and the US. That is where it has been in the law for years, but also there is still an underdevelopment of the use of ANPR for detection. The researchers also say that it is often mainly about low-hanging fruit. This is also strongly linked to the fact that there is no police capacity for it. You should bet on that. So the question is, what do you bet your capacity on? Then you will not be there with ANPR yourself, but you will also have to do something with that data. So to say that we cannot draw any conclusions... What does the Minister think of the fact that it has made a very limited contribution so far, here and in other countries? This is of course important for the consideration of privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u86	Could you finish your interruption, Mrs. Strik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u87	If it's not effective, it's obviously not necessary either, perhaps. Well, that's gonna be a different way of looking at things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u88	Let me begin by saying that this is a bit on the side of this debate, and that I have at least one pleasant role in this new position, namely that I am allowed to go to the country to tell the police that the cabinet has made extra money available in connection with capacity. That's always fun, good news. We should not talk about how this is going to crystallise, but that is certainly not an insignificant remark. I'm not taking that report off as irrelevant or anything. I will not repeat my whole story, but I would point out that the report also states that this information does not always lead to a 'have, we have the bad guy', but it does lead to more indications, which can often be crucial. This also applies to cases of case law mentioned in the proceedings in the Lower House. I see your gestures; indeed, they are only four cases of case law. I'll just say a few words about why there's only four of them. But you can also see this in those case law cases. The police had used the ANPR information for no hits experimentally, or because they had to. You can see that in those cases it just gives an extra push in the right direction. That's just what this report says good things about. I do not at all detract from the usefulness of that report on a number of points, but I insist that it is actually too early. Let me put it this way: here is someone who would reject your pudding in advance, already at the beginning of dinner, if you could talk in that comparison. I don't think we should. I think we really need that evaluation first. Again, there are also positive points in the report. The same applies to the United States and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u89	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u90	Perhaps the Minister will go into the evaluation further, but if he thinks that the balancing still benefits ANPR, to what extent should the effectiveness of the evaluation have been proven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u91	If it is all right with you, I will say something about this at the end of the question about our ambition. I just wanted to say a few words about these examples, which I have just mentioned. I saw Mrs Strik raise four fingers; I assume she referred to the four statements that were raised during the debate in the House of Representatives. The interesting thing is: why are there so few statements about it? Because the police couldn't use those no hits. If you read those four cases, you'll see that the police get a slap on the wrist in two of the four cases because they can't use that data. In the third case, it is also said that the police should not use this information, but fortunately the evidence will then be provided on other grounds. I have been investigating case law myself for many years, but I think Mrs Strik too, and the unfortunate thing is that case law is obviously not a statistical reflection of what is actually happening in practice. If it's okay with you, I wanted to keep going, otherwise it's gonna take a long time. What exactly is going to be saved? Cameras may only be placed at the locations that meet the criteria laid down in the law. Let's get that straight. Mrs Bredenoord asked if cameras could be placed at sensitive places such as churches, schools and mosques. The bill states that cameras are placed on or on public roads. The criteria for the placement of cameras are in the design ANPR. Cameras can be placed in certain places that pose a risk of crime or are used as escape routes. The camera plan accounts for the choices surrounding the placement. That camera plan is published not only in the Staatscourant, but also on the website Government.nl. I cannot rule out the possibility that such a camera will once be near a school or a church, but it can only be about signs of passing vehicles, not about visitors to the schools or churches, and also only if the further criteria of the decision are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u92	I would also like to hear now what the guarantees are that these cameras will happen to be there to scan passing cars and that they have not been placed exactly at the church or ggz setting for any reason. What guarantees do we have to believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u93	They are not placed at the church or mosque because there is a church or mosque there. They are placed on public roads in a place that meets one of the three criteria mentioned by the law. That's one. Then two. In the field of vision, somewhere in the distance or anywhere, there can be a school or an association building. Let me give you other examples. Again, these are only signs of passing cars that remain in the storage system for 28 days, four weeks. That retention system may only be consulted by authorised investigators at the request of an investigative officer authorised by the Public Prosecutor. That request should be based on those specific categories of crime. I haven't mentioned it yet, but I'm also involved in the fact that that authorized and authenticated investigative officer has to register who the investigating officer is, what is the purpose of his investigation and what isn't anymore. It's a long way from someone who could get it in his head to look at those pictures and see what's going on at the church. Then he's gonna have to magnify them. That's not gonna happen at all. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u94	Finally, Mrs Bredenoord. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u95	I am not so much concerned with what happens at the church, mosque or ggz institution. I am concerned with the mere fact that you can map that people are frequent visitors to a particular institution. That's already privacy-sensitive information. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u96	You can't map that. You have to see it this way: that camera doesn't map, it records. Let me assume I'm an investigator and investigating a fugitive bank robber. I'm asking for the data from that camera on a specific license plate. There will then be a very careful review before I get permission; I am not going to repeat it all. With codes, that special official is gonna check it out. All I'm getting is information that that license plate was seen at that location on Wednesday night at 6:00 p.m. That's it. I'm not getting any information about who owns that car, let alone that he visits that church. I have to add that the discussion had facilitated a piece of paper which was laid down in the implementing decision that the cameras should not be directed to restricted places. That's why I said if you accidentally see anything else in the distance. Yeah? Good! I think I have already answered Mrs Bredenoord's questions sufficiently when I was in the debate with Mrs Strik on how the bill relates to the rulings of the Court of Justice. We discussed the camera plan and the retention period in detail. Is the bill proportionate? In the meantime, I have also replied in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u98	I may have been asleep for a while, but I haven't heard any answers to my questions about who's setting up the camera plan, because the idea is that the police will find out, and because of the checks-and-balances and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u99	I was a little too fast. I thought that might have been enough. I apologize. Every year a camera plan is drawn up. It should include all the cameras used for ANPR, as referred to in this bill. It shall be drawn up by the Chief of Staff in consultation with the Prosecutor. The camera plan is sent to me as minister and then made public in the Staatscourant and on Government.nl. The stakes are therefore verifiable. The camera plan shall record where and how many fixed cameras are placed. It also includes how many mobile cameras will be deployed and at what kind of locations. I think I've answered most of the questions by now. I have replied sufficiently that the publication takes place in the Staatscourant and on Government.nl. Who is responsible for ensuring that an oral order is recorded in writing within three days, as described in the law? That's guarded within the state's attorney's office, which is responsible. First of all, the individual prosecutor, but also the Chief Prosecutor and the Attorney General will ensure that this is done carefully. In a criminal case, the judge in the criminal case will always judge that again. Mrs Strik asked a question about the WODC report. I hope I have answered it by now. Otherwise, we can do it in the second term. I come to the answer to Mrs Vlietstra's questions. What will the evaluation focus on? The evaluation will focus on two main issues: the effectiveness of detection and the privacy aspects. In terms of effectiveness, of course, we will look at the case as well as the figures. The privacy aspects will also take into account the results of the annual privacy audits. The evaluation is on the WODC's research programming. Researchers are currently looking at the research design that can answer the question of effectiveness. That's a very difficult question, because you're scared I can't even explain it to you. I am very grateful to Mrs Vlietstra for asking what my ambition is and when I think it is effective. For me, the ambition of this legislative proposal must be to make it clear that it will make an important contribution to the detection of serious criminal offences and that the protection of the privacy of citizens has not, or hardly has, suffered; even more, that it has given citizens a safer society. That will have to be demonstrated by the evaluation. I have every confidence in that. I end up where I started. I really think this is a legislative proposal in which, on the one hand, the balance between the importance of detection and the importance of privacy on the other hand, has been carefully weighed. I hope that in the first instance I have answered the questions raised by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u101	Can we suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u102	Now, right now? I'll take a look around. Is everyone okay with that? Five minutes, but really five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u103	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and supporting the care of this proposal, which is not a bliss, but which can help to put criminals and terrorists away. I have also been somewhat surprised by the, as it seems, unwillingness on the part of some colleagues to understand that the system can only be consulted where serious suspects and serious crime are concerned. I do not think it is right that this proposal should be supported by the lack of clarity which one seems to want to place here. As far as I am concerned, the capacity gains that this proposal is going to bring to the police have also been neglected. I still have one question left open from the first term, and it concerns a little bit of this law, particularly the mayors in the South of the Netherlands. They are concerned about cross-border crime and would like to have a faster exchange of registration data as well. That now requires an international legal aid application, and that takes a lot of time. I say Southern Netherlands, but also from Utrecht there is quite a crack in Germany. It would be a good thing to be able to exchange data more quickly between countries around us, now that we have no borders, including registration data. I would ask the Minister if he would take action to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. I think I am still missing an answer from the first term to my question on mosaic theory. Perhaps the Minister could go into that a little further. In fact, with this proposal, the Minister is placing a mortgage on the future. He also points out that there are no hard figures at the moment. It is therefore not empirically justifiable how effective the legislative proposal is. In fact, that should prove to be the case over the next three years. What I am left with is the report by the WODC and also the experience from the United Kingdom. In particular, it shows that it makes no or only a very limited contribution to the detection of serious crime and that it is mainly about small beer, small offences. This remains a fact that there is a breach of privacy and that the balancing of whether it is justified and proportionate remains difficult. For my group, it remains unclear how to determine whether the legislative proposal is proportionate if its effectiveness is in fact uncertain. I also have doubts about the 28-day retention period. We talked about it for a while, and then the Minister indicated that it was obviously necessary for the search. Apparently, the police need 28 days to deal with any hits. We all know that there are delays in police and prosecutors, so if I followed this logic, the retention period will only be longer and not shorter. I thought that the Minister was also taking some kind of advance on the evaluation and that he said that it might have to be larger than 28 days and perhaps even two years, as in the United Kingdom. I have also listened carefully to the answers given by the Minister and my colleagues. I'm taking it back to the group to determine our final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. There are two more outstanding questions that I would like to ask the Minister. I'll get them. The first was whether the Minister could undertake to inform us in writing of what his goals are to improve the lead times within the criminal justice chain, coupled with concrete deadlines and actions. The second question was whether the Minister would like to undertake to complete the draft implementing decision with the answers to the questions of the Personal Data Authority and to submit the amended draft implementing decision or implementing decision to this Chamber. I still miss the answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u109	Let me ask you something, Mrs. Wezel. To what extent is your question about performance in the criminal justice chain related to the specific subject of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u110	That's related to this bill, because this is a method to improve performance in the criminal justice chain. But you can see on the other hand that those achievements are lagging behind. I wonder what he wants to do to improve the lead times in that chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u111	I have to tell you that I think that it is very far-fetched for that subject, and that is a subject on which the General Court once wrote a very intrusive report, years ago, just after noon, so let me say, really involve an afternoon in a legislative proposal concerning the recording and storage of registration data by the police. So I think it is somewhat out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u112	Yes. Let me give you a brief explanation. As I pointed out in my debate paper, there are a lot of victims waiting for their case to be picked up by the police and prosecuted. Those are people who've been e-mailing me lately. It's something that bothers me and a lot of people. I am now speaking to the Minister, and I think it is important to ask this question in the context of what we are going to do to strengthen that investigation. That's why I asked that question. I understand you don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u113	I don't see it that way. I agree with you on this point, but that does not mean that questions about the whole range of all that is involved in criminal law, in the criminal justice chain and in the investigation can now be put to the Minister. Anyway, I made my point very clear. I really think, as I told you, it's out of the order of the bill on the recording and retention of registration data by the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u114	That's obvious. Thank you. Let's see, my next point. The Minister indicated that the no-hit information "name" and "order to the prosecutor" did not enter the criminal investigation. The FBI collects information, and that is sometimes about football fields full, so I know from experience. That includes all the no-hit information, including all the registration records of all citizens who are not suspects. In my view, and in the eyes of the SP and Animal Party groups, it is not desirable that the no-hit registration data of citizens who are not suspects should be entered in those residual information boxes. In addition, the Minister states that only the information of the camera in question is captured. In practice, it appears that all ANPR data, depending on the assignment, can be retrieved over a certain period of time and that on the basis of that information you can see certain behavior from a suspect, for example that it always goes to a certain place and back again. This means that the information of all those other citizens who are not involved also ends up in that information box, and I find that rather worrying. That is why I ask the Minister to respond to the question of how he intends to destroy the information that ends up in those waste bins or in that search information. I also asked questions about the moment that this information is recorded once after an order from the officer and is available. I thought I had just heard from the Minister that it would not be given to third parties and abroad, nor for any other purpose. I have heard the Minister say that, and so I assume so, but at least I would like to table a motion on this point. The President shall: Mr Wezel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ruers, Mr Meijer and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to exclude in the Implementing Decision that the no-hit registration information may be provided to third parties, abroad and for purposes other than for investigation purposes and intelligence services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33542-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the pleasant exchange of arguments and for the answers to our questions. I am afraid that at this point we will have to decide that we agree to agree, but who knows if we will reach a common conclusion in the evaluation. That would be very nice. What strikes me is that the Minister says so easily that EU case-law is now ready, that we do not have to talk about it anymore. We just happen to have received a letter from the Minister today asking for a little more patience because not all of them have been crystallised at EU level as to what the consequences are. So we are still looking forward to further clarification. For now, I think I have said it enough, and we think that storage and storage are too general and that the restrictions are too limited. I'd like to confine myself now to the locations, because that's connected to the camera plan. In fact, we find it really incomprehensible that there are so few concrete criteria in both the law and the AMvB about the locations, because they determine very much how general these data are now being recorded, and that the camera plan, which states where it is to be done, is being drawn up by the police themselves. The Minister has just explained how things are going. Yes, I also know how things are going, but I want to know how he looks at that and why not, for example, the prosecution, in the context of checks-and-balances, or rather the minister himself. I'm sorry to use metaphor again, but it's a bit of a butcher who approves his own flesh; yet again in terms of food! But it is still a bit strange that the police can decide for themselves where it is necessary that the cameras are hung and where the data they need for the search can be extracted. With regard to proportionality, the Minister says that the data does not go as far as Tele2. I would therefore like to quote the judgment in Digital Rights. This was also about traffic data, i.e. not direct, substantive communication, but who called who and so on. I think he's a little too easy to ignore the fact that transport data is where people find themselves, where they often go, how they move around, can actually say something about privacy. I just thought I'd hear the Minister say something about "we can see residents." Perhaps he can correct that for a moment, because I think it must be absolutely clear that it is really just about cars and registration numbers and not about the occupants. Another question, which the Minister has not yet responded to, is whether the data can not be obtained in any other way. I think that this is another important point in assessing proportionality in the evaluation. I would also like to ask the Minister to what extent he will ensure that we have information on the following in that evaluation. If the prosecutor authorizes the acquisition of the data, is it indeed made clear whether that information has not been obtained in any other way and to what extent it is necessary? That way, we can really make a good assessment later. It is, of course, also a question of how much it is an important contribution to the detection of serious criminal offences. Finally. We've talked a lot about the pudding. In part, this pudding was the legislative proposal itself, because it must contain the procedural safeguards that allow us to say: we can agree with this with confidence. You have heard our doubts. The rest will indeed have to be reflected in the implementation of the legislation. Then it is interesting to note that the reports and experience from abroad have so far given rise to considerable doubts about effectiveness, and therefore the necessity, and that the Minister says: there is not much to be said of that. But the Minister also says that we do not yet know everything about how effective it will be. So it's a bit of a leap into the unknown after all. I hope that those who are now much more in favour of this will also be genuinely uninhibited and objective enough to see whether it is actually contributing to the detection of serious crimes as is now being assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I too thank the Minister for his answers. I would like to comment on a few points. I understand that it's hard to really express the ambition I've been asking for. The Minister's statement that he clearly wants to make an important contribution to the detection of serious criminal offences with as little negative impact as possible on the privacy of the citizen, I can, of course, endorse. The report of the WODC has been referred to here. That is not very encouraging on this point, so let us indeed bear in mind the Minister's ambition to make this legislative proposal clearly better. The privacy audit comes every year. I can imagine that in terms of effectiveness we are not only going to see how it works after three years, but that it may also be important, in the interim, to see what is going on and whether the effectiveness of detection is indeed increasing. As regards the monitoring of automatic data destruction, I welcome the Minister's remark that ICT is being extensively tested before ANPR is deployed and that additional human commitment is being made in the initial phase on this issue. We know that with ICT in the police department, there are times when something is going on, so I am reassured by the Minister on this point. I've asked the Minister if he sees any other possibilities to announce the camera plan. I understand that in addition to the Staatsmaak, government.nl is also used. Mrs Strik has asked whether, for example, we have thought about placing signs on the roads where these cameras are used. I'd like him to take that up. The point of the ANPR data and the other ANPR data causes confusion to me. I also saw that the Personal Data Authority made a comment on this in its opinion on the draft implementing decision. If I remember correctly, she even suggests to the Minister not to make that distinction. Finally. My group shares the view that with all the safeguards contained in the legislative proposal and the three-year horizon clause, there is a responsible balance between, on the one hand, the importance of detection and, on the other, the citizens' right to privacy. We look forward to the evaluation in three years' time. Of course, Mrs Strik, we will be unbiased, with an open mind and not prejudiced, to assess the reporting on that point of the WODC and the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I once got the advice: don't focus too much on those who are against and who you probably can't convince, but especially on those who are ahead, to at least keep them by your side. It is against that background that I repeat my only question. Is it serious to this new minister that the safeguards contained in the bill, including those included in the written procedure, will be respected by all those involved and that he will actively monitor them himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Rombouts. I see the minister writing heavily. I would ask the Minister whether he is in a position to reply directly or whether he wishes to be suspended for five or ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u121	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u122	Then I'll give you seven minutes until 5:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u123	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Madam President. I will now answer as much as possible in the order of the speakers. Mr Dercksen asked if I could speed up international exchanges of registration data. A treaty was concluded at the time between a number of Member States which provides for the possibility of direct consultation of registration records by Member States. The Treaty has now been transposed into a Union-wide Council Decision: the Prüm Council Decision. In addition, of course, traditional legal aid instruments apply and we continue to strive for improvement and acceleration in the EU, while respecting privacy guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u125	This question was in response to the news from, I believe, last week or two weeks ago, in which the mayor of Baarle-Nassau expressed these concerns. She said in the press that she would go to The Hague to get it done. Can I now qualify your comment as a reassurance, in which you say that this data exchange is now going much faster, with all the guarantees that we also consider important? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u126	I have told you that we are striving for improvement and acceleration. So that reassurance depends on how you qualify me in my endeavor, I think. Then Mrs. Bredenoord had a question. Well, Mrs Bredenoord and Mrs Strik both took the point from a particular point of view: what should we do if the effectiveness is not clear? There are very clear indications that ANPR is going to be a step forward in the search. I haven't mentioned it in the first period, but there was already a report from DSP commissioned by the WODC, in which the conclusion was clear that it could improve detection. I have already said the necessary things about the report by Regioplan, also on behalf of the WODC, in the first term. We must not forget that it also says that it is going to produce results. According to the preliminary findings of the Regioplan, it may not produce the same success as it does in the case of fines, but results will emerge from it. Whether, on the basis of the study in the United States or the United Kingdom, you qualify that as disappointing or not, you can only determine with each other once the evaluation has been done. In response to Mrs Bredenoord's justified questions, I would like to stress once again that the evaluation clause is there for a reason. We are going to do that evaluation very seriously, and we will also look at how the Public Prosecutor applied the principle of subsidiarity. Then I'll take a little bit of an advance on Rombouts' question if I'm going to actively do something about it, but I'll get to that later. So we're going to map it really well, so that in three years we really know how effective it has been. Mrs Bredenoord has asked whether mosaic theory does not lead to the conclusion that this is a much greater infringement, because a combination of data can provide a more comprehensive picture. No, the ANPR data should be stored separately from other police records. This may be provided only for a limited period and only data relevant to the investigation may be provided under strict conditions. I've drowned them several times; I'm not going to do that to you again. All the other data, I say to Mrs Wezel, which cannot therefore be associated with other information in the investigation, are therefore excluded. Mrs Wezel is talking about a'rest bin', but it is empty after 28 days, after four weeks, one way or another. So there's nothing wrong with that. For a moment there was second term care with Mrs Wezel. We were talking about a fugitive bank robber. Can you tell me if you run into the license plate that was spotted by a witness there and there? Yes, they say, Wednesday evening 7.30 p.m. at Oudenrijn, in the direction of Belgium, or I know what. That's the fact that the investigating officer who made the request for a license plate to the authorized Authentized Investigation Officer is given. Mrs Wezel mentioned a group photo on the football field, but so that investigator does not get all other information. All he gets is that. The data that are not under investigation will all be destroyed after four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u127	Information is requested from ANPR cameras, for example traffic data from people who drive a lot in Brabant up to the border. On this basis, certain license plates are selected which stop very much at certain parking spaces. That gives information. That means that a lot of data and registration data from people who are all driving around in that region will be made available to that investigative service. So they're all in the investigation and in the search file. That can sometimes be football fields big. In fact, I've seen in major investigations that they're huge spaces with data. That's what I meant by that information. So there's a lot of registration data on people who aren't involved in criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u128	I feel like there's been a slight misunderstanding. I am particularly sorry, because that has not been the case so far. Look, those cameras are from here to Breda, for example. They register the cars. They are at three points because they meet one of the location requirements: Node Oudenrijn. Name two more nodes and you're here. Those cameras record you passing by, that I'm passing by, but also that a bank robber is passing by on the flight. I forgot my keys at home, so I'm gonna go back again. I'll come again. I'm going back. I forgot my suitcase. For all I care, I'm on it 20 times, but I'm not a suspect in an investigation, so the details of my car being photographed 20 times with his license plate are four weeks behind code lock and key with those special investigators. No one can get to that. After four weeks that's destroyed, it's gone. If I was caught up in the same four weeks by the Audibende from Germany or something, whatever, then that car is also photographed, but that license plate is involved in an investigation. That license plate is being fished out at the request of the police and not my license plate. That's just gone after four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u129	What happens is that with all the cars that have passed a number of points, they're going to see which cars were driving around. So there's a lot of information being collected. From that information, they're gonna get some tracking information, which leads back to the search. That information remains available up to and including the point that a case becomes irrevocable, perhaps on appeal, because later it appears that, for example, research wishes are submitted by the lawyer in the sense of: what other cars were driving on that road at the time? In practice, you can also see who checked out in public transport. Next thing you know, who drove all over that road? All that information is kept so that that information remains available in order to be able to dig into it if the court, the prosecutor or the lawyer later have search wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u130	But, Mrs Wezel, I have already said about this in the first term: what you are describing is profiling. You can't do that. That's not gonna happen. Then we can talk about convoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u131	It's called an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mrs Wezel, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u133	I heard you say, "Then we'll get those license plates, and then we'll have a BOLO. But it's not like that. There's an investigation going on. Because you are not allowed to use no hits, the following happens, according to case law; this occurs in one of those cases. A car's being stolen. It drives past those cameras, but that's a no hit, because that car isn't registered as stolen yet. You can't use the data that someone took that car to the South of the Netherlands, because it's a no hit. Now, here's how we're gonna change it. That car thief drives that car south, he comes on camera three times and in the framework of a search for the car with the registration number xyz: is it on the cameras? Yes. Then you've got all those safeguards around that Special Investigation Officer and all that. So you can find the trail of that car. What if it's a gang of car thieves? Then it may be that the district attorney authorizes you to check to see if all of those cameras show plates of the same three cars. But if I go there in my innocence in my car for those car thieves, then I literally don't get a picture at all, because my license plate has nothing to do with that search. Once again, convoying will require an authorization from the district attorney to make the request: would you like to see if more than one car was systematically involved? That's convoying. The other element is profiling; you started with that. That's "outside the question," I was gonna say, but that's an anglicism. That's out of the question. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u134	Can I ask you one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u135	Very briefly, Mrs Wezel, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u136	Often people say if they have seen a robbery for example: it was a red Polo. What happens then? Then that information is made available and then they look: was there a red Polo? There is no license plate available at all, but for that search we need to see if there were any red Polos. Then you see: yes, that was the red Polo. Then a lot of black, green and blue cars went by.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u137	It's just about plates. By the way, I didn't put the word "inhabitants" in my mouth today. This could be reflected in the short-term report. But apparently there was a misunderstanding in the sense that I would have suggested that you could also see the occupants or something. That is absolutely not the case. So we can't see whether it's a black sweater or a red polo or whatever. The license plate, that's what it's all about. Is there a question about that? Okay. Why four weeks? I've already explained that once, Mrs Bredenoord. I have already talked about the amendments with a longer period of time, but with your approval, thank you, I have been able to find that there has also been an amendment to shorten it to two weeks. Nor has the House of Representatives accepted that. So that means that these four weeks is a time-limit widely supported by the people's representatives in all respects. I explained in the first period that that time limit is a reasonable balance between the importance of detection, which in those four weeks should be considered to be able to do a lot on the one hand, and the interests of proportionality and privacy on the other. Then there was another question about signs along the road. Was that Mrs. Vlietstra's or Mrs. Strik's?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mrs. Vlietstra mentioned signs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u139	Yes, Mrs. Strike first, I think. No, we do not think that is a better alternative than publication in the Official Journal. It's also consultable. Through Government.nl, everyone can get an impression of where ANPR cameras are placed well in advance at any time. It offers the motorist the opportunity to see much earlier than during the car ride where the cameras are. In recent years, when I see the lively discussion in the Netherlands on privacy issues, I am convinced that this will also be consulted enthusiastically. Then I have a few more questions to answer, which I will do soon. You mentioned the chief of police, who compared you to the butcher who approves his own flesh. Apart from the fact that it relates exactly to Christmas dinner; especially if you are vegetarian, that is of course another matter. But it's not the butcher who approves his own flesh, it's a butcher who's gonna pick out the best meat for me. And then as a customer, in this case as Minister of Justice and Security, but of course you, as a representative of the people, may say: but that is not a good piece of meat that you have gotten. Look, that metaphor of the butcher who approves his own meat is a bit like Roy Bean who was a judge, lawyer and prosecutor in the West in his own trial. But that doesn't play. The chief of police says: these are now the places for the camera plan, which will be published, and you can work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u140	Shortly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u141	If I have to choose, I'll still choose that pudding, because I do not eat meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u142	But those puddings are made of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u143	You brought up the butcher!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mrs. Strik, Mrs. Strik, those puddings are made with kidney fat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u145	Yeah, that's why. So it's choosing between rock and a hard place. So neither. For me therefore neither, but another menu. But the point remains that rather the idea was that the Minister would define the camera plan. That's let go. Now it is the police who determine it and it is sent to the minister, who then publishes it. That is something other than the Minister's finding it. That is why my question: isn't that too much that the police can decide for themselves? 'Cause what's the minister gonna do with that camera plan next? Is he gonna hold it up to the light again? Is he going to decide for himself whether it is indeed necessary, proportionate and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u146	Yeah, of course I'm not gonna drive past those cameras anymore. Look, let me say this about it. Then I'll take an advance on what Rombouts said. I'm gonna have to see if I can fill out my role in such a way that in three years' time you're not gonna say, "Have you ever talked to the chief of police about that camera plan?" That will be a very marginal test, but I will. But you will forgive me: I am not going to test the police chief's camera plan. It also seems to me in terms of expertise in the field of detection that the Dutch citizen would prefer the Chief of Staff to do so rather than that I will do so. Otherwise, Mrs Strik, I would do it on his advice and the result would be the same. Let's face it, I am still entirely responsible for the police, if I may believe the newspaper. So you can call me on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u147	Of course, we're not talking about the Minister of Justice. But it's about whether there's enough checks-and-balances in there. That is why I would ask you to include in the evaluation how this process is going: whether it is independent enough, what the role of the Public Prosecutor is in this process and whether it might be better to put that hole there in the future. I would like that to be taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u148	Okay. But then I add one thing: independent is of course very nice, but it must also be a good camera plan in quality. If the police are going to focus more on something else, then... No, that's what the Chief Constable does. We're definitely gonna see if it was okay to put that responsibility there in three years' time, I think. Last but not least, I hope that I will not fail to answer Mr Rombouts' question as to whether this Minister is serious about the safeguards that have been observed in the legislative proposal and whether the Minister himself will actively monitor it. The answer is yes. I said at the beginning that this is a legislative proposal which is important in the context of the investigation, and I continue to emphasise this, even with regard to those Members who have spoken a little critically about it here and there today. It's a very important bill. In my opinion, if we are to carry out such an evaluation, I must ensure that, in the meantime, I am concerned about how things are going to be in practice. Finally, a motion has been tabled by Mr Wezel. I advise against this motion. This point has already been settled in the law. Pursuant to Article 126y of the Fifth paragraph, the provisions of the Wpg on the provision of third parties shall not apply. That is not allowed, and this is already the result of the proposal. For abroad, we have already stipulated in Article 13 of the Decision that it should not be provided further. That's how I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u150	I would like to ask the Minister to reply to his objectives, to supplement the draft implementing decision, with answers to questions from the Personal Data Authority and to submit the amended draft implementing decision to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u151	Let me start with the latter: that implementing act is surrounded by all the safeguards that are necessary and which also respond not only to the critical notes of the Authority, but also to the fact that I have already indicated that the various wishes in the House of Representatives have been met. Because a number of substantive amendments to the law have simply been adopted, resulting in the implementing act. That implementing decision is really sound and sound in the light of the legislative proposal before us. You asked me about the lead times. About that would...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u152	The question was whether you would like to refer it to this Chamber. I understand that it meets the guarantees, but we would like to be able to test them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u153	But the implementing decision was sent to you in response. It's already been sent. I see all thumbs go up, so that's how it has to be. It was sent to you at the time of the reply. Yeah? I have therefore assumed that today we have talked a lot about the implementing decision on the basis of that text. Madam President. You spoke briefly with Mrs Wezel about her request for time limits and a note on this matter. I would actually like to undertake to discuss this with Mrs Wezel in this building at the moment and then to see if that would lead to further homework for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u154	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-eerstekamer-3.u155	I thank the Minister for his debut here in the First Chamber. I hope he likes it.
