ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators and their support... their names were mentioned last time........................................................................................................................................................................................ I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this bill, as is customary in the examination of an initiative proposal. Today, the answer is in the first term and the full second term. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Mulder to answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before I start replying, I would like to thank colleagues for their input in the first term. We all know that we can only function properly by the employees, including those of our parties. I would mention a number of them: Mr Botman of the CDA, Mr Bosse of the PvdA and Mrs Wolffram-van Doorn of the Ministry of Security and Justice. I would also like to express my thanks to my colleague Pieter Omtzigt with whom I wrote the initiative paper together with Mr Biesheuvel and Mr Gladdines of ONL. And, of course, I am also grateful for the legal support of the Legislative Office. As Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP pointed out, the subject of late payment has kept the moods in the Lower House busy for quite some time. Several MPs have worked to tackle the problem and the initiators also have broad appreciation for this. Mr Graus was right to say that he is not here today to say that the payment behaviour of governments is also a very serious problem. The initiators agree that this should change quickly. We will soon have a debate on this with our Minister for Economic Affairs at his request. As a Member of Parliament, I have always enjoyed hearing from government officials how the answer goes and I am always very excited about answering in blocks. Today we have seven blocks. I'll take care of the first three blocks. The first block is the introduction. In Block 2, I will address the questions on the solution to the problems faced by SMEs andzzp'ers. Block 3 deals with the questions raised about the enforcement and effectiveness of the legislative proposal. My colleague, Mei Li Vos, will then deal with questions about possible side effects and possible alternatives. It will also answer the question of what is happening in Europe and will answer other questions. I'll start with the block "introduction." I shall deal with the problem, the solution proposed and the points raised by several colleagues in the first period. To clarify the problem, I start by sharing an experience of a former entrepreneur. He said this: I shouldn't actually be sitting here. Because I'm not an entrepreneur anymore. My biggest client has unilaterally increased the payment period to 90 days. After that, everything went downhill and I went bankrupt. Even if you could change something about that so that large companies can no longer abuse their dominant position by extending the payment period, you may not be helping me anymore, but you will help many other entrepreneurs. These words came in through Entrepreneurship Netherlands. And similar stories also come directly to us, the CDA, through many different entrepreneurs. These kind of signals affect me and I think that these signals affect everyone who stands up for a fair economy. Last week there was another case in Drachten. It was an entrepreneur with 14 employees who received late payment from a large company whose name I will not mention here. Then 30,000 a month is a lot of money and small businesses simply function as banks of large companies. That's what today is about. The bill was created because of these persistent signals from society. That is why I initially wrote an own-initiative paper. This was discussed by the House of Representatives at the beginning of last year. There has also been a hearing with experts, a consultation with the field has taken place and, of course, the Council of State has also looked at the proposal. It was a careful process in which it became clear time and time again that there are unfortunately large companies that use their small suppliers too much as banks. Some large companies have structural payment periods of 90 days and sometimes 120 days. Nice and convenient: free money from small suppliers. There is an abuse of power in order to improve itself. And it is not for the small suppliers to explain that they are then in trouble while they themselves have properly delivered a product or service to that same large company in time. Mr Geurts said it aptly: a fair economy does not mean that large companies shuffle financial burdens over the back of SMEs andzzp'ers because they see opportunities to get better themselves. Mr Ziegs of the VVD rightly states that it should be normal for entrepreneurs to receive their money in good time. I agree with that passionately. Mr Nijboer's speech on the moral aspect also fits in perfectly with that. As Mr Nijboer quite rightly said, proper handling does not involve a conscious policy of large companies to pay as late as possible. The same applies to companies and to public authorities, as I say to Mr In addition to these moral and financial aspects, this approach of large companies also causes damage to the economy as a whole. The entire chain of trade is affected by this. According to Intrum Justitia, too long payment periods and deliberately late payment periods mean that a total of 7 billion euros must be written off on an annual basis in the Netherlands. We are aware that these figures are about more than just payment periods, but this makes it clear that we are facing a serious problem here. So that's what we're talking about today. Mr Ziegs asked if there were really no SMEs who, as suppliers, would like payment periods of 90 and 120 days. Of course, we cannot speak for all SMEs, but for a supplier, a long payment period is always detrimental. Theoretically, an extremely long payment period can of course be compensated by admitting something to the buyer at another negotiating point. The Dutch Retail Council also drew the attention of the House of Representatives to this; Mr Ziengs also referred to this in his contribution. However, these examples relate to well-intentioned large companies. In view of the unequal negotiating position and the relationship of dependence, it is still very doubtful whether the compensation for unfairly long payment periods is actually offered by certain customers. The small supplier is not yet able to enforce this in the negotiations. Mr Ziengs wondered whether it would be wise to allow more extensive deadlines. I do not think this is wise, because this would not help the small supplier, whoever the VVD thinks should be paid properly on time, so within 30 days. This would create a new escape route for large companies to take advantage of the law again. On the contrary, the present legislative proposal ensures that the small supplier is protected from too long payment periods because of the unequal negotiating position and the dependency relationship in contractual negotiations. Therefore, we should not embark on new derogations. I would like to say to Mr Ziegs that I can imagine that, in a possible evaluation, we will pay more attention to this particular point. If we then start to evaluate, we must, of course, also give the law time to do its job, so that we can distinguish occasional and structural effects from each other. In any case, the initiators have a view that the payment morale will improve. Ascending payment periods are no longer acceptable at this time. In that case, even a 30-day payment period may be shown, as far as the authors of this bill are concerned. We assume that large companies are very well aware of our message and that they will not allow their payment behaviour to deteriorate further. As indicated here, the core of the current problem is therefore the unequal negotiating position and the dependence relationship between a large company and a small supplier. The current law can lead to discussion of what may or may not be allowed. The law now states that the question whether large companies are allowed to deviate from the 60-day time limit depends on whether this is manifestly unfair to the creditor. In principle, all payment periods exceeding 60 days are manifestly unfair in this commercial relationship, but since the law does not explicitly state at present that payment periods from more than 60 days are always unfair from large companies to small suppliers, this may be the subject of discussion. A judge must then be required to assess these individual cases. That is why we, as initiators, have come up with a legislative proposal that ensures that the law is absolutely clear that unreasonable long payment periods are no longer allowed to small suppliers. The bill automatically annuls payment periods of more than 60 days from large companies to small suppliers. The payment term is then converted into a standard for payment periods, i.e. a payment term of 30 days. Since this legislative amendment no longer requires any discussion on whether or not payment periods of more than 60 days may or may not be allowed in this commercial relationship, a course to court will no longer be necessary to determine this. This last sentence is quite essential. The bill will therefore no longer require a court to determine whether a payment period of more than 60 days is manifestly unfair in the commercial relationship between a large company and a small supplier. This is what the initiators want to emphasise, because many members spoke in their contributions about the course to the judge. The court will therefore no longer be required in principle. The judge only comes around the corner if the large company explicitly breaks the law and does not pay the commercial interest due after 30 days. In the third block, I will go into this further and explain why we, as initiators, expect that the corridor to the judge will not have to be made very often. It was noted that several MPs spoke about varying signals in the field about this bill, including among the industry organisations representing SMEs. In fact, it seemed that the suggestion was raised that industry organisations of SMEs andzzp's think differently about this bill. However, let me be clear. The main industry organisations representing SMEs andzzp's are crystal clear: they support this bill. Both ONL for Entrepreneurs, SME-Netherlands, and ZZP Netherlands are for this bill. It is true that SMEs in the Netherlands were first hesitant. However, on 31 August last year, the Netherlands-SME dealt with this issue. They have reported this via a press release on their website, entitled "Size full of late payments." In this article, SMEs-Netherlands explicitly state that they are more than tired of the poor payment behaviour of large companies towards small and medium-sized enterprises. They appreciate the initiatives in the area of self-regulation, but indicate that there is a clear need for more. SMEs-Netherlands indicates that excesses need to be tackled and concludes the press release with the sentence: "Therefore, let the CDA and PvdA act get there quickly." Other organisations representing small suppliers have also informed us that they wholeheartedly support the law. I refer, for example, to the Federation of Contractors Netherlands Construction and Infra, SMEs INFRA and the Association of Industrial Surface Treatment Netherlands. Of course, there has also been criticism. However, this comes mainly from organisations that defend the importance of large companies, such as VNO-NCW and also the HEMA. This is, of course, understandable from their point of view and is to be expected. At the same time, I also know from a lot of VNO-NCW members that they think it is perfectly normal to just pay the bills in time and value SMEs andzzp's as partners in the chain. One of the representatives of the large companies I spoke about said to me: "It is, of course, too crazy for words. But, yeah, it's possible, isn't it? And with that, we put pressure on our own suppliers and put the brakes on innovation and actually make it difficult for ourselves to compete well internationally. Because we all know: we are as strong as the weakest link in the chain." I come to my second block: questions that have been asked about the solution as we see it through our legislative proposal. These questions were asked by Mr Geurts of the CDA, among others. His first question was whether the initiators can confirm that this law applies only to trade relations in which large companies play the role of customer and SMEs and zzp the role of supplier or service provider. This question can be answered in full with a yes. Mr Geurts' second question was whether the transitional period of one year would be real if the legislative proposal also applied to existing contracts. That's a fair question. It is true that a transitional period of one year has been introduced for existing contracts. This has been chosen from the point of view of legal certainty. Companies that do not yet pay their bills in time should, of course, be given the opportunity to adapt contracts. For example, the HEMA asked for this. For the sake of clarity, we have therefore opted for a transitional period of one year. We have the following reasons for this. Firstly, it is a small settlement for relatively few contracts, because fortunately, a large part of large companies pay their bills properly on time and therefore do not have to adjust anything. For those who remain behind, the payment period is the only thing that needs to be adjusted in the existing contracts. This applies only to existing contracts in commercial relations between a large company in the role of buyer and SMEs or an independent entrepreneur in the role of supplier or service provider, where a payment period of more than 60 days has been agreed. Secondly, the fixed changes will be taken into account when the law enters into force. This means that the proposal will enter into force on 1 January or 1 July. In practice, this gives some extra time because there will probably be some time between the publication of the law and its entry into force. The present law will therefore enter into force at the earliest on 1 July 2017, depending on the treatment in the First Chamber. This means that this law will not apply to existing agreements until 1 July 2018 at the earliest. Thirdly, the one-year deadline has been chosen because it is a normal time limit. In this connection, I refer to the transitional law when introducing new rules on general conditions in '92. A transitional period of one year for pre-existing general terms and conditions was considered reasonable, whereas a substantial change was made for general terms and conditions. In this case, it is only one change, namely the payment period. So this is all very reasonable towards the large business, especially when you realize that this bill is designed to ensure that SMEs andzzp'ers do not have to deal with long payment periods unnecessarily long. A longer transitional period would put further pressure on the liquidity position of SMEs andzzp's. They then hold an unpredictable collection and have less room to make investments or to take up bad months. This leads not only to problems for these suppliers, but also to damage to the economy and to longer payment periods in the chain. Mr Geurts of the CDA had a question about how the new legislation will be made known to companies in the Netherlands. If the law is passed in the Second and First Chambers, the initiators agree with Mr Geurts that good communication is really important. The initiators therefore call on the cabinet to use all available channels to bring the bill to the attention of entrepreneurs when it has been adopted. The initiators see an important role for the Chamber of Commerce, Entrepreneur's Squares and the website of the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland. The initiators also, of course, call on all business organisations to inform their supporters of the new legislation. In his term, the Minister could also comment on the instruments available to the Cabinet to bring new legislation to the attention of entrepreneurs, in so far as they have not yet been mentioned. I come to the third block: the effectiveness of the solution and enforcement. In the introduction, I have already addressed this very briefly by stating that it is expected that this legislative proposal will hardly make it necessary to proceed to court. I shall now go into this in more detail in the light of the questions raised by the various groups. First of all, Mr Geurts of the CDA asked whether large companies are going to comply with the law. Furthermore, Ms Gesthuizen of the SP asked whether it is not worrying that SMEs are particularly dependent on the courts to get their rights. The initiators would like to emphasise that the legislative proposal is intended to make the process to court unnecessary. We expect large companies to comply with the law and so the process to court is no longer necessary. We have a number of reasons for this. Firstly, it is expected that this bill will lead to a change of behaviour in the boardroom. For example, this legislative proposal makes it clear to us what is morally acceptable and what is not. Now that that border is coming to an end, it is expected that large companies will realise that the policy of taking advantage of their small suppliers is no longer desirable. It is therefore expected that large companies will comply with the law and that the course of justice will not be necessary. Especially at a time when international corporate social responsibility is becoming the norm, it seems to us to be perfectly normal. Secondly, the expectation is that the directors of large companies will comply with the law, because they have some explaining to do if they break the law. In the current situation large companies can still hide behind the discussion about what is "apparently unfair." This bill will no longer be able to do so and will make it perfectly clear that for payment periods longer than 60 days for small suppliers, the law is explicitly violated. If large companies also decide not to pay the legal commercial interest rate anymore, they explicitly violate the law for the second time. Thirdly, it is expected that large companies will comply with the law, as this will create a financial risk for large companies. It's gonna be too big to break the law. The bill has turned justice into a debt collection dispute. In addition, it has become easier for suppliers to unite and make a joint process to judge. In addition, the claim under current Dutch law is enforceable in law for up to five years, allowing the small supplier to go to court after the commercial relationship has ended. As a result, the risk of financial setbacks is much higher than in the current situation. On this basis, it is expected that the large business will comply with the law and therefore it will no longer have to come to trial. It is likely that there will still be some large companies who will knowingly decide to explicitly break the law twice. Several questions have been asked about this situation by MPs Graus van de PVV, Nijboer van de PvdA and Geurts van het CDA. The key question here is whether small suppliers dare to go to court to claim the legal commercial interest rate, if a large company breaks the law. If certain large companies fail to comply with the law, the initiators expect SMEs andzzp'ers to go to court to claim legal commercial interest. And that can be done with retroactive effect. We have a number of arguments to support this. As indicated earlier, this bill strengthens the legal position of the small supplier compared to the current situation. This concerns in particular the question of what is "obviously unfair" towards the supplier. It may be fairly complex for the supplier to prove the burden of proof partly because of the term "obvious unfairness'. This legislative proposal removes the term "obvious unfairness" in relation to agreements between large-scale companies andzzp'ers or SMEs. This replaces the individual assessment by the judge with a debt collection dispute. The small supplier will only have to prove to the court that there is a trade relationship between a large company in the role of buyer and SMEs or thezzp'er in the role of supplier, that a payment period over 60 days has been included and that the legal commercial interest rate has not been paid. This is relatively easy to prove by a supplier which increases the chance that the judge will put the supplier in the right. By adding more security for suppliers to win a lawsuit, suppliers are expected to decide to claim the legal commercial interest rate earlier than is currently the case. Another important argument is that under current Dutch law the claim is enforceable for up to five years. This is a tool for small suppliers to dare to go to court despite the relationship of dependence if a large company breaks the law unexpectedly and does not pay the legal commercial interest. As soon as the commercial relationship comes to an end, the supplier can still charge the statutory interest rate and this can go back to five years even without prior notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mrs Mulder's explanation has so far been very clear. That's nice. However, I do notice a contradiction. Mrs Mulder has clearly begun to parry the critical questions of some of the Chamber or entrepreneurs in this case will dare to go to court. She stated that this is unlikely to be necessary. Now, in her speech, she often mentions the possibility for entrepreneurs to go to court. I'm not entirely comfortable with that. If we have learned anything in recent years, that is at the heart of this problem, it is that entrepreneurs do not bite the hand that feeds them, the paying customer of their product or service. How do the proposers see this problem? I really see this as a dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u4	The main point in the current legislation is that a small supplier must prove that it is manifestly unfair. With this law we achieve that that question is no longer asked. You're right, and if a big company goes over the 60-day deadline, it automatically goes back to 30 days. A statutory interest rate will then enter into force. I think there's pressure from this law towards the boardrooms of the big companies. They want to comply with the law, do business everywhere and trade. They do not want to be confronted with the fact that they do not follow the law properly. They still have an escape under the current law, but this bill represents an enormous opportunity for small businesses to make progress towards justice. But I don't expect that courtroom corridor to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u5	I'll help Mrs. Mulder hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u6	That is why I said at the beginning of my speech, in particular to Mr Ziegs, and in response to comments made by Mrs Gesthuizen in her first term, that we would like to look at this in the evaluation after a year or three. The bill says a transitional period of one year, and I think you should give the law two years to see how it works out. But what Mrs. Gesthuizen said is why we're doing it, so I totally agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u7	Is it perhaps useful in this context if you also respond immediately to item No. 9 amendment, which deals with this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u8	I have not yet seen the final amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u9	Okay, then it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u10	Wait, I'll look into it now. I can agree with it. This is exactly what this is about. So you are quite right to point this out, Mr President. I think I can also say on behalf of Mrs Vos that we support this amendment. I do not think we are formal about this, but I think the Minister will have to say something about it later, but I can certainly agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u11	It is not necessary, but I also suggest that you can accept the amendment under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. Perhaps you would like to consider this first; I will only give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u12	I'll think about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u13	Very good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u14	The bill also makes it easier for suppliers to go to court together with other suppliers, because it becomes a collection dispute with this bill. In the current situation, the judge must consider an individual case. In doing so, the judge must weigh the term "manifest injustice." In the new situation, it is only technically necessary to consider whether or not the law has been broken. That makes a common course of justice easier. This is very important because, compared to the current situation, it increases the risk that smaller suppliers will dare to go to court to claim the legal commercial interest rate. It is also less likely that the buyer will terminate trade relations with all suppliers who jointly go to court. Suppliers can also share the costs of a court case in this way. Mr Graus rightly pointed out that the costs are relatively high for small amounts. By dividing the costs or collecting the statutory interest in one go, the costs per supplier will be reduced. There's a small advantage in that, but I also realize that you might wonder if a company goes to court for $1,000. Mr Ziegs of the VVD asked whether it was tested that the suppliers are actually going to unite in order to make a joint course to the judge. This has not yet been reviewed, as the exact consequences of this legislative proposal can only be assessed once the law has entered into force. In any case, the justification I have just given makes it plausible to the initiators that there is an increased chance that small suppliers will take a joint course in court. I also say that, of course, I hope that the large business will comply properly with the law. This fits in with corporate social responsibility. Mr Nijboer presented a case to the initiators. Should it not be the case that, if a large company makes structural payments, it should be the case that the account is sent with the statutory commercial interest to be paid on it? He indicated that in such a situation there was no need to go to court and he wondered whether this was not a simpler form. Mr Nijboer's sketch is right on the main lines. That's how the bill works. If large companies fail to comply with the proposed prohibition to include a payment period longer than 60 days in a contract, that payment period shall be null and void. In that case, a payment period of 30 days shall automatically apply. If large companies pay in this situation after 30 days, a small supplier can send an account to the large company with the legal commercial interest rate. The supplier has five years to do this. Suppliers do not therefore automatically have to go to court to claim the legal commercial interest in this bill. Mr Nijboer has correctly observed this. It is only necessary to go to court if the wholesaler refuses to pay the bill with the statutory commercial interest rate. Finally, with regard to this block, Mr Nijboer of the PvdA had the question of how to report on non-payment of legal commercial interest rates and whether large companies should report that they do not comply with the law. To begin with, we understand that it is not possible for large companies to report that they do not comply with the law. As I indicated earlier in the reply, it is true that large companies have to include the statutory commercial interest rate to be paid in their financial figures, in the annual report, if they want an endorsement from the accountant, it seems to me that they will simply, as they should, comply with it properly. This brings me to the end of the first three blocks and I would like to give the floor to Mr Mei Li Vos for the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u15	No, you don't. You let me do that. Mrs. Fox, go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u16	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what my colleague Agnes Mulder said about the fantastic support from our staff, ONL and Mr Omtzigt. I also very much like being able to stand here as a PvdAer because this is a battle between small and large people I, as a small person, naturally want to continue to fight this battle too, and also to curb the right of the strongest. I believe that this law, with the small change that it actually contains, will bring about SMEs and thezzp'ers. I am also very pleased that Mr Mulder has asked me to contribute to this. I will answer a number of questions. The first block I'm going to deal with is about the possible side effects of this law. As we all know, once a law is introduced, things often happen that we didn't know would happen in advance. That is why I very much welcome the amendment tabled by Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen. It is very good to evaluate. The side effect that Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen talked about concerns the fear that the large business will extend the payment periods from 30 days to 60 days. In my view, this is also one of the most important questions raised in the evaluation. We have three reasons why we believe that it will not be so rapid, even more so, that it will not happen. The legislation can only be reviewed after it has entered into force. So we don't know if it's going to happen, but the reason why we think it's not going to happen lies in the fact that the bill only amends one small thing, namely the deletion of 'obviously unfair'. That makes perfect sense. We solve that particular problem only if large companies want to agree a payment period that is longer than 60 days. That whole article is about the standard and that standard is 30 days. That standard has always been 30 days and we have no indication that large companies will want to change the standard to which most large companies adhere. A second reason why we believe that this bill will not extend payment deadlines is that it gives an additional confirmation of that standard. If a large company wants to enforce a payment period that is longer than 60 days in breach of the law, this appointment is immediately null and void and then the appointment immediately becomes 30 days. Then SMEs can revert to that 30-day standard and automatically apply a 30-day payment period and then the commercial interest rate. This means that unreasonable payment periods are automatically reduced to 30 days. A third reason why we believe that it will not happen is that the bill only contains new rules for companies that paid late anyway. All the other companies are luckily that is also the majority of the companies kept to the statutory payment periods. It therefore does not provide any incentive for large companies that now use payment periods of 14 or 35 days, for example, to switch to payment periods of 60 days. We also expect self-regulation initiatives to ensure that payment periods are shorter rather than longer. We therefore see this law as a strengthening of initiatives in the field and self-regulation. It simply gives SMEs more resources to enforce normal payment periods. Mr Ziengs of the VVD has asked a question about freedom of contract. The consultation would show that restricting contract freedom was hardly seen as a problem. He was wondering who said that. We can easily answer that. Only one party has noted this as a restriction of contract freedom: the FAAN. That's a factoring company, so a company that helps with payments. None of the other participants we consulted mentioned this. It has been said that this limited restriction of contract freedom is hardly seen as a problem. The only thing is that, in this particular trade relationship, i.e. between large business and small business in the role of customer and SMEs and thezzp'er in the role of supplier and service provider, no payment period for more than 60 days can be agreed. Everything else is and remains negotiable in the negotiation process, so also whether a payment period is 13 days or 34 days. In the trade relations to which the bill does not relate, for example those between SMEs andzzp'ers, entrepreneurs retain the possibility to agree payment periods longer than 60 days, provided of course they comply with the rules already in force on the basis of Article 6.119a of the Civil Code. There is also nothing that changes for large companies who do not currently agree on payment periods of more than 60 days. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA asked a question about the role of the AFM. That question was very similar to a question about the AFM that Mrs Gesthuizen asked. That is the question whether the ACM... No, Mr. Nijboer asked about the AFM. He understood very well that that authority does not, in principle, assess an individual contract. He was wondering the following. Suppose it is conscious policy of a large company to pay later and the board finds that it is the ambition to pay late. The ACM oversees the abuse of power, doesn't it? If this happens consciously, is there no role for the ACM? So this question is very similar to Mrs Gesthuizen's question. It referred to France, where the regulator has a major role to play in the enforcement of this specific policy. We can answer that the ACM cannot solve these problems. It has powers under the Competition Act and can only impose fines in cartel agreements or where a buyer abuses its dominant position. Then the ACM has a role. It does not therefore have the power to intervene in an individual relationship between supplier and buyer. The current Unfair Commercial Practices Act, on which the ACM also supervises, is only about the relationship between an entrepreneur and a consumer. Therefore, the ACM does not currently have the power. We approached the ACM in the consultation. She indicated that she herself did not see any added value in a substantive response. If the ACM had seen a role for itself, it was expected that the ACM would have used the opportunity to respond to the bill. Nor has the Council of State made any comments on this issue. As far as France's example is concerned, the question is whether a role of the ACM can be useful. We'll get the system that goes there. In France, government has a major role to play in meeting payment deadlines between companies. That is really different from that in the Netherlands. It is actively monitored by the public authorities. A fine of €375,000 can also be imposed. However, we do not opt for this system, because it involves a very large implementation burden. We have received signals that thousands of French officials have to deal with the individual relationships between companies. We believe that the change we are introducing will ultimately reduce the need for justice. The Minister may be able to comment on the role of the ACM in this legislative proposal. Mr Ziengs of the VVD also asked a question about the ACM. He wanted to know if, if the bill makes it, the effects of the law are monitored by the ACM. He also asked whether the ACM could provide input on the effects of this law within a year. My colleague, Mr Mulder, has already dealt with this. In a year's time, we think it's way too early. There is a transitional period in the law. The law will not apply until a year after its entry into force. Until then, entrepreneurs have the room to adapt contracts. We think you can't say anything about the effects until after one year. We are pleased that Mr Ziegs' and Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment to item No. 9 a three-year evaluation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u17	That amendment shows that we want to include this evaluation and the clause on the horizon. But I also specifically asked for monitoring during the evaluation period. We often see that the effects are already recognizable. My question was whether the ACM and the small entrepreneurs in the preliminary stage could already participate in the monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u18	We do not think there is much point in the transitional year, since contracts need to be adapted. It has also been asked whether the transition year is too short. One year seems too short for us. There can and should be monitored. I assume that ONL, who has also been very involved in the drafting of this bill, will certainly do the same. It is fairly easy to set up a hotline. But the ACM sees no role for itself. It has no legal role here either. I also refer to the Minister. The Minister may also be able to answer this question, but we think one year is too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u19	Then I await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u20	While we are talking about Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment and the evaluation, I would like to say that we have just had eye contact very quickly and that we believe that the adoption of the amendment is a very good idea, at least if it is accepted. Mr President, perhaps you can also find out through eye contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u21	I have another way of contacting the clerk. Article 100 provides that none of the members present shall oppose it. If that is the case, this wonderful procedure may enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u22	I don't see any resistance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u23	The Zieggens/Gesthuizen amendment (Doc. 9) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen asked a question about self-regulation. She wanted to know what our response was to SMEs saying that self-regulation would be enough. Mrs Mulder has dealt with this. The industry associations that say that existing initiatives will provide a solution all point to Paymentme.nu. This is indeed self-regulation, but Payment now had only 34 participants last December, the last time we looked at the number of participants notified. The Netherlands has 2,840 large companies. This means that only 1.2% of large companies are participating in Paymentme.nu. SMEs in the Netherlands have already said: Payment now is fantastic, but let that law come soon. Mrs Mulder had already mentioned this. We also see this law as a support for this. I think it can reinforce each other, but I also think this law is necessary. All trade associations and all SME associations are asking for this law. Suppose we stick to self-regulation and that large companies would voluntarily decide not to impose payment periods of more than 60 days on SMEs, then SMEs will remain dependent on the goodwill of large companies. If there is another crisis or if something else happens, it is difficult for SMEs to achieve their rights. This law makes it incredibly easy to get you justice. Given the action of the compliance managers at the large company, I think that the large company will comply with the clear-cut provisions of the law. We have an example of self-regulation abroad. Since 2008, there has been self-regulation in the United Kingdom. There's a voluntary covenant. Large companies have promised to use payment periods of 30 days, with a run-off to 60 days. This is similar to European legislation. The target group of self-regulation consists of the 350 largest UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. Of this group, only 137 companies had committed themselves to the covenant. But research has shown that only one in five companies in the United Kingdom have confidence in the effectiveness of the code to improve the culture around payment morals. For this reason, on 2 December 2016, in the United Kingdom, they recently announced new legislation requiring large companies to report twice a year on payment periods as of 1 April 2017. This example clearly shows that the voluntary code does not work there either and that the sector calls for more action. Then there is the block of Europe. It is mainly about the level playing field. Mr Ziengs asked for a response to LTO Netherlands, which pointed out the level playing field in Europe. The suggestion is that this proposal would put a head on European legislation. It is not the case that we are putting our heads on European legislation. In fact, the European directive allows individual Member States to draw up stricter legislation if they so wish. This is stated in Article 12 (3) of the European Directive. The European Union has taken on the role of providing basic protection. It is up to the Member States themselves to draw up stricter legislation if they consider it necessary. Several countries have done the same. It varies a bit; in some countries companies have to explain. In some countries, the courts will judge more strictly as they pay later, for example. In some countries, for example, the exception we have here, that it is only about large companies and small businesses, has been removed and it is about all trade relations. In this respect, the Netherlands is, as is often the case, the middle-engineer, and not necessarily stricter than other Member States. We do not therefore expect the Netherlands to be affected by this. A European directive has therefore considerably harmonised legislation in Europe. It is very little interesting for a foreign company to move trade relations abroad only for this reason. In France and Spain, these are still important trading partners of the Netherlands.... there is even much stricter legislation than in the Netherlands. As a follow-up, Mr Ziengs asked whether we would see the danger that large companies would buy their products abroad, so that they would not have to comply with the Dutch rule. We don't think this makes any sense. A payment period is only a very small part of the trade relationship. The choice of which law applies depends on many more factors. For example, we must remember that much more transport costs will have to be paid. We therefore believe that it is not logical that, because of the payment period, which has already been fairly harmonised, you should move abroad. Mr Ziengs had a final question on payment morality. Is it only a Dutch problem, or is it also a European problem? And do the initiators see opportunities to tackle this problem at European level? The European Commission's evaluation shows that the problem exists in several countries. One European solution, unlike the directive we now have, is therefore not obvious. I have just said that the directive deliberately provides basic protection for companies. The Directive therefore leaves it to Member States to lay down stricter rules if necessary. It is therefore not obvious to argue for even more equality at European level, which is already reasonable. We have accepted Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen's assessment, but we are waiting for the European directive to be reviewed. That will be at the earliest in 2021. As far as we are concerned, this is taking too long, also in view of the signals we get from the field that it is really a big problem. It's about billions. Hence this law now. I have one final question to answer from Mrs Gesthuizen, on the legal process of SMEs. It has already been mentioned, but Mrs Gesthuizen specifically asked to what extent justice is already being used by SMEs if a company exceeds the payment period, so in the current situation. Mrs Gesthuizen suggested that it would be a very good indicator of how much the effect of this law will be. We do not think that the data on the legal proceedings of SMEs are a good indicator at the moment. In fact, the failure we have just mentioned, the fear of bringing the big business to justice, was precisely one of the reasons for submitting the legislative proposal. SMEs do not dare because they know that they are often not strong. This bill will strengthen people's position. There are no figures available, since the course of justice is an act between two companies. No mention is made of it. Even if the figures were available, it would be difficult to draw conclusions from them. Indeed, such figures do not take into account the number of cases where suppliers do not dare to claim the legal commercial interest rate. The hearing in the Lower House and the consultation showed that few small suppliers are currently willing to claim the legal commercial interest they are entitled to. Hence this law. Finally, we are putting forward this initiative proposal so that large companies can simply comply with the law. The law's getting clap-and-clap. There's no need for justice anymore. If large companies still break the law, small suppliers have sufficient tools to take the step to court in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u25	I give the floor to the Minister in his capacity as advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiators for their thorough approach to the initiative and the sound defence they have just shown. I fear that they will get a taste for it and that they will be even more assertive in the debates with me, but I will have to wait and see. I believe that the work they have done has enabled this subject to be dealt with properly in the Chamber. The further handling here and in the Upper Chamber will also be quite possible. Again, my compliments. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Vos, who replaced Mr Monasch, have tabled a legislative proposal aimed at reducing excesses of long payment periods vis-à-vis SMEs. I think that's a very noble goal. I agree with that objective, and I have been promoting it for years, both for the public authorities and for the companies themselves. It looks better and better for the public authorities. I give an overview of this every year and will do so again in the spring with the usual annual review. This is a follow-up to developments. My own ministry is currently at 96% timely payment. What remains are often situations where there are particularities or discussions. If the law states that a government, whatever it may be, must comply with the statutory maximum period of 30 days, which is laid down in Article 119b of Book 6 of the Civil Code, then that government must also comply with it. It is also my task to follow the behaviour of governments and to promote them to a greater extent than is currently the case. Article 119a of Book 6 of the Civil Code states that the payment period is in principle 30 days for companies, but that entrepreneurs are free to agree on a longer term, up to 60 days. I believe that this situation with the legislative proposal will immediately be the final situation. The space is then limited to 60 days. A longer term than 60 days will then no longer be possible. The picture of payments between companies is not bad in the Netherlands. We have had it examined and it has been found that the average duration of a payment is 36.5 days. Mind you, it's the average cost. This means that some payments are delayed much longer. The initiators have also explained this. The proposal for an own-initiative opinion is understandable in that it focuses on excesses. I don't have the figures for the year 2016. The signals I get do not indicate that there is an improvement in that situation. It's getting longer than 36.5 days, I'd estimate, rather than shorter. I do not think that is a good development. The economy is attracting again, making it easier for companies to comply with payment agreements and thus get closer to those 30 days rather than farther. It seems that a number of companies opt for a longer term. In itself, that is not a good thing. I've had a look at what we're talking about in those excesses. How many transactions are there where the payment stays out for more than 60 days? This does not happen in 98.7% of all cases. In 1.3% of cases, the 60-day period is exceeded. That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u27	Does the Minister have the idea that this might be a direct effect of the law introduced at the time as a result of the implementation of the directive from Europe? When that 60-day period was mentioned, we warned in that debate that you would be in the safe zone if you went to pay within 30 to 60 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u28	I don't know, but I'm just waiting for the figures for the year 2016, and I'll see if the signals I picked up turn out to be true because of those figures. If I am going to find an explanation for this, I would also like to take Mr Ziengs' suggestion. Now it is true that the law does not explicitly determine what is apparently unfair. The initiators have made this very clear. This means that there can be discussion about this. That is the subject of discussion. A small supplier must then call on the judge to clarify this. This proposal ensures that this is no longer the case. That ambiguity is being removed, and that is certainly an improvement. There are two points I would like to make. First of all, if a customer does not keep to the contract properly and still waits for more than 60 days before payment takes place, there will have to be another way to go to court, because it will still need to go to court. Regardless of whether this will be easy to walk and easy to remove, it is a confrontation between the large customer and the small supplier. That small supplier must then go to court, and that is something with which they have been very reluctant so far. I actually estimate they'll stay that way, even if the law changes. Their considerations include: the relationship they have with their large customer, the possibilities they estimate to move that large customer to better behavior and the fears they may have that a legal procedure will disrupt the relationship. I'll keep in mind that going to court will still be a big step for a small supplier. I would like to make a second comment. I've done that before, but I still want to do it again. It is possible under the Civil Code that a longer term than 30 days may be agreed upon even after the adoption of this initiative. That could be a time limit of up to 60 days. I'm afraid that, if you explicitly present those 60 days as a standard, you can't have more than 60 days in a number of cases, possibly in a substantial number of cases, the tendency to crawl to those 60 days. That would be a deterioration. That was also why I did not come up with that proposal myself. But the proposal is now there. I note that, after cooperating with ONL on the initiative, the Netherlands, SMEs, too, have expressed their opinion and have said that, taking into account everything, it is considered that this legislative proposal represents an improvement and that it is therefore supported. Secondly, I do not like the signals I receive about the trend over the year 2016. That's a consideration of mine, too. The third recital is that this legislative proposal sends a clear signal to large customers that in all cases more than 60 days is unfair. That signal itself is valuable. A fourth recital is that the Council of State has issued a blank opinion on this issue. All in all, despite the comments I have made and the risks I estimate, I leave the opinion on this initiative proposal to the House of Representatives on behalf of the Cabinet. Then a number of questions have been asked to me, but perhaps also to the initiators and to me. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Vos referred a number of times to me and said that I might be able to comment on things relating to the ACM. I'd be happy to. Firstly, there was a question from Mr Geurts. He wondered if the government, if this law is passed, would communicate that there is a law and that it should be respected. Yes, we will. If there is a new legislation, it must be complied with. So we'll see what our channels are. I am thinking of the Chamber of Commerce with various contacts. I am thinking of the website Entrepreneurplein.nl, where you can make things clear. We will use the appropriate channels available to us to promote this arrangement, if it becomes applicable after treatment in the Second and First Chambers. Mr Nijboer has also asked if I will grant contrasign to this law if it comes into being. I'll be sure to. Mr Ziegs wondered if the ACM could monitor the law and then produce a report on the findings. If this initiative law comes into force and if there is to be an evaluation at some point, then I think it is useful to consider whether input can also be provided by the ACM. I'll ask the ACM to do that if necessary. However, the ACM has no understanding of the relationship between companies. It has no insight into the payment behaviour of company to company. She doesn't get any information about that. She can't see that. Nor would it be an efficient use of public funds if we imposed that task on the ACM, because, of course, a lot is happening in relationships between companies. That's what our prosperity is all about. So it is not realistic to have all this pictured by the ACM. Nor is that part of her public service mission. It is not the case that she has direct information, but I can imagine that relevant information will be made available to the ACM in various ways and that the ACM can inform the Chamber and me about it, so that we can involve it in the evaluation. Given the view that the ACM has on market conditions and developments within markets, it may be able to say things about this. Mr Nijboer wondered whether the ACM could do anything further in the context of abuse of a dominant position. The ACM has indicated that it is not likely that the issue of undue exceedances of statutory payment periods is an abuse of a dominant position. It's complex to investigate. That requires a heavy burden of proof. It is not the most efficient and effective way to solve the problem. The main link to the action of the ACM is the impact of corporate behaviour on consumer welfare. He's not directly at stake here. Therefore, there are few connecting factors for the ACM to act on the enforcement and monitoring of payment periods. That is also not a good thing to do and does not fit in with the ACM's tasks, as I said. At that point I see no role for the ACM. Ms Gesthuizen wondered whether the ACM could mean anything in the enforcement of payment periods. That's actually the same point. She also wondered whether complaints about payment periods could be submitted to the ACM. Since the ACM has no legal powers and has no insight into what is happening there, there is little point in submitting complaints. Of course, it is always possible to lodge a complaint with the ACM if there is a presumption of abuse of a dominant position, but the ACM does not consider that plausible, as I said. Moreover, the heavy instrument of abuse of a dominant position is not very suitable for resolving this type of procedure. So I think it will have to be done in a different way. The initiators have also looked into this. They have finally come up with this proposal. I have indicated, on behalf of the government, that I would like to leave the opinion on this proposal to the Chamber, with which I would like to conclude my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u29	I would like to ask the Minister for further clarification. The Minister indicated that the ACM has no insight into the payment periods used by companies among themselves. Would it be a solution if the ACM were to cooperate with those smaller companies that are supplying in order to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u30	There are so many transactions between companies in the Netherlands I was just talking about "extremely many transactions" that there was no flow of information to the ACM at that point. I do not see such a flow of information getting underway either. Nor do I think that such a flow of information, if there were, would provide a good representative picture of what is happening. The assessment is not the responsibility of the ACM. So I really don't see any role for the ACM on that point. I do not believe that we should expect the ACM to be able to give an opinion on developments in respect of payment deadlines and the objectives of the Chamber in this respect. I do think that relevant information can be made available to the ACM in several ways. That information will therefore have to be exchanged when we proceed with this evaluation. Moreover, such an evaluation requires the necessary research, as we now have Dun & Bradstreet doing: how many percent of all invoices are being paid late? That's 1.3%. In other cases, what exactly is the situation with regard to the payment behaviour of the municipalities? We're going to do some research on that, too. I can therefore imagine that we will also have targeted research carried out on the basis of which it is possible to draw relevant conclusions from that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u31	May I conclude by saying that the Minister is willing to forward to the Chamber that evaluation, as he explained, in a different way as a kind of monitoring rather than involving the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u32	If this proposal is adopted, including the amendment adopted by Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen, I see it as the responsibility of the government, when an evaluation is to be made, to ensure that this evaluation is made available, that the preparatory work is done and that it is possible for the Cabinet and the Chamber to draw the conclusions to be drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u33	I would like to comment on the Minister's response to the role of the ACM, because it seems that he is making a distinction on the basis of the extent to which there is a dominant economic position. I would like an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u34	No, the dominant position is crystal clear at the ACM. It is an important part of its work to ensure that there is abuse of the dominant position. There is a lot of case law about this and there is a lot of experience with it. The ACM considers that this heavy procedure is not applicable if the payment period is exceeded. It estimates that there is no demonstrable abuse of the dominant position. In addition, the ACM says that its activities should ultimately involve consumer welfare. It estimates that consumer welfare is not affected by what is going on here. These are the considerations for the ACM to exercise restraint, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u35	Can I ask Members to do so elsewhere if they wish to consult each other? The Minister came to the end of the reply. There is a need for a second deadline. Prior to that second deadline, there is no need for a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators, the minister and the support for the rapid response. Congratulations to Mr Ziesgs and Mrs Gesthuizen for their consideration and the inclusion of the evaluation clause in the law. The Members of Parliament present did not object. I see not only a blank opinion from the Council of State; it seems that we are also moving towards unanimity in the Chamber. Compliments for the initiators. Mr Graus referred in the first term to a motion which the CDA Group would not have supported. That's right. The operative part of that motion states that "the government is asking hard-working entrepreneurs to be protected'. We wholeheartedly support that, but in the final part of the operative part it says: 'to resort to means of pressure, including the possibility of dismissing the main executives'. Let's say an alderman is the chief responsible; that's not what we as a Chamber are about. We can't fire an alderman. That power really is on a different level. That is why the CDA Group did not support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u37	It is sporting that Mr Geurts should respond to that. This was known to me, but my point was that a Member of Parliament can always say to me: if you take that line out, I would like to support the motion. The CDA apparently agreed with the most important rule of my request. I really am not the worst; all Members of Parliament know that. If I had to get something out of a motion or change something to get a majority, I would have. It remains, therefore, that I regret that my motion was not supported. I have been putting this on the agenda since December 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u38	I will not deny that Mr Graus is putting all kinds of things on the agenda. But at least the CDA Group did not support this motion for the reason I just gave. I wanted to give that answer to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u39	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u40	I see you're hesitating. If you have a motion and you prefer someone else to speak first, of course you can. I asked first if the Chamber wanted to suspend, but according to the Chamber there was no need for a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u41	I see the motion is already coming. I had, of course, already expressed my compliments on the initiative legislative proposal in the first term. The answer also gave many answers to the questions I asked. Moreover, the amendment has simply been accepted. I am very pleased with that. I've also had a lot of contact with the initiators in the last few days. In any case, we want to prevent that small supplier, that entrepreneur, from ultimately experiencing a negative effect. That is not what this law is about; we all agree on that. Yet we still have a small motion. In fact, I was sort of sorting it out before the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possible (by-) effects of this legislative proposal are not yet clear in several areas;]] [[calls on the Government to actively monitor the effects and involve entrepreneurs after the entry into force of this legislative amendment, but before the proposed review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziegs and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34559-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for the effort they have made and the answers to the questions. I would also like to congratulate them on this initiative law. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for 70% of employment. It is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure good and strong SMEs. If SMEs, where every penny is used to invest in the company and its staff, have to wait too long for the money to be borrowed, this will cause serious problems. A change of attitude is envisaged in the large business: a stick behind the door that makes non-payment of statutory interest after 60 days a conscious policy choice. SMEs should never be used as interest-free loans for large companies that pay late their suppliers out of financial gain. This initiative law can therefore count on the support of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u43	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators very much for answering the questions put by the Chamber. I think the questions I have asked have been answered well. I continue to doubt the willingness of entrepreneurs to finally, if that big stick is behind the door, get their rights from judges. Anyway, that's something that has to prove itself in the future. However, I am confident that the facilitation and clarification of the initiative law, when it comes into force, will help to ensure that entrepreneurs do not have to take that step or dare to take it with greater certainty. Sometimes that's what it takes to get you justice. There is nothing left for me but to say that I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill. The amendment, of which I was one of the proposers, will no longer be put to the vote. I would like to conclude by saying that I find it very admirable that the two initiators have taken the trouble to protect small businesses in the Netherlands in particular. I would have liked it very much if today's votes had shown that the CDA had also voted in favour of protecting foreign entrepreneurs. I refer to Mr Van Laar's initiative law. I do not think the CDA voted in favour of this. A large part of the Court of Justice voted against it, despite all the adjustments and concessions made by the Chamber, also supported by my group. It is important not only that we take good care of the entrepreneurs in our own country, but also that we provide entrepreneurs in developing countries who may need our support even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u44	The latter subject was not on the agenda at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u45	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the authors! I would like to thank both the ladies for all their efforts and certainly their policy staff, because I know what comes to mind. Thank you! It is also nice that we have all been able to tackle ourselves together in the Chamber for the benefit of entrepreneurs, the SMEs and also thezzp'ers, which I would like to mention specifically. As I said in the first term, I have already advised my group to vote in favour of this initiative proposal. I'd already done that when I read it. I have nothing else to add. I would just like to say that, of course, we would prefer to go to a legal deadline of 30 days, but I certainly understand by what the Minister has added that this does not always have to be advantageous. I always think this way: if there is a legal deadline, you can still make arrangements to make it last longer. Because if two companies agree, how does a controller find out? Then who's gonna find out they're not getting paid in time? But at least this is a start. And thank you again and a very blessed evening for everyone, also for your chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u46	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see that the initiators can respond immediately. I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder. Then I will see whether Mrs Mei Li Vos is also speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Chamber for the tightening up they have given today and last week. That is why we were very pleased to accept the amendment. It's extraordinary that you can do that. It is good that we have been able to do so today. There is one motion tabled by two colleagues, Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen. Of course, we do not know everything in advance, but it is clear that our initiative proposal will indeed make it easier and clearer for entrepreneurs. It's also gonna be easier to go to court. The three-year evaluation, which we all want, shows the structural and incidental effects. I read the motion by Mr Ziegs and Mr Gesthuizen in such a way that it deals with the unexpected emergence of incidental effects. The norm is just 30 days. As far as we are concerned, it lasts 30 days and can never go beyond 60 days in this trade relationship. The trend that the minister has just indicated is that it will be paid after 36.5 days. What if this period is even stretched as we grow economically? That's not supposed to happen, is it? Suppose that is partly an effect of this law, then we should be able to say in good time: large companies, this is all nice and nice, but if you are dealing with this in that way, that is not explicitly the intention of this House of Representatives. Then perhaps we should consider whether we can be stricter, so we can put a tooth into it and go to 30 days. Then the standard is also the final agreement. I can imagine that large companies will perhaps think three times about whether or not they will do so with this Chamber ruling. Because then they defy small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't think that's proper. I don't think most of the companies will want to do that. So I am confident that that effect will not be too bad. However, should it happen, I actually see this motion as supporting the legislative proposal, so that we can make a timely call and adopt more stringent measures with each other. Let that be clear to the big business. I'm gonna call on the big company to just pay the bills in time. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u48	I have a question from the trial. You're actually advising... judge Room. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u49	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. But we can also, of course, take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u50	But the request is addressed to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u51	Yeah, that's a little tricky. I'm not formally allowed to do that. So that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u52	I think we should explicitly involve the consultant in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u53	That seems to me to be a very good thing, Mr President. He can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u54	Mrs Vos will not speak. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs in his role as an advisor. I see he doesn't need time to think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u55	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder just said that there could be a further tightening up. I do not want to comment on this myself. When companies do business with each other, they talk about the price, quality, delivery terms and payment terms of a product. I think they have reasonable opportunities for that within the law. The standard time limit is 30 days, but may be waived by agreement. Mrs Mulder says that she thinks it is undesirable that payment should take longer. I agree with her. I also understand the intention of the bill. If the bill is passed, I don't intend to wait three years for evaluation. In those three years, I've been following the case. I will be in touch with business organisations and ask what their image is. I will also have interim investigations done to outline an image if there is any reason to do so. In their motion, Mr Ziegs and Mrs Gesthuizen asked the government to actively monitor the effects after the entry into force of this legislative amendment but for the proposed evaluation, involving entrepreneurs. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u56	Your advice is therefore to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-20.u57	I would, of course, like to thank the authors and the support they had with them, as well as the advisory minister and members for their input. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motion and the law, not on the amendment.
