ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 14 May last, Elske ter Veld, former senator of the Labour Party, died at the age of 72. She was a member of the First Chamber from 13 June 1995 to 10 June 2003. This passionate Groningen politician has worked for 20 years as a Member of Parliament, State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment and Member of Parliament, within national politics, for equal opportunities in society. Elske ter Veld was born on 1 August 1944 in Groningen, in a family that was very concerned with social issues. After the training at the University of Groningen, she followed a training in cultural work at the University of Groningen, also at the University of Groningen Academy of Social and Cultural Labour. In 1968 she started working as a training director working youth in Assen and later as head of club and community center work in Groningen. In 1972, Mrs Ter Veld became Head of the Secretariat for Women Workers at the Netherlands Trade Union Confederation (NVV). Ever since she was young, Mrs Ter Veld felt a strong political commitment. A childhood dream came true when she was sworn in as a Member of Parliament in 1981. In her role as an opposition member and spokesperson for social security, she felt very in her place. Emancipation was one of her spearheads from the very first moment. Together with fellow party members Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven and Evelien Herfkens, she wrote with lipstick on the board of the Ministry of Social Affairs the words "Empowerment." In 1989, Mrs Ter Veld was one of the authors of an initiative proposal on the transfer of tasks and cooperation by business associations. This proposal became law a year later, something that was not much of an initiative proposal. 1989 was also the year in which Mrs Ter Veld was appointed Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment in the third Lubbers cabinet. In this capacity, it established, inter alia, policies to promote the self-employment of older people and disabled people as long as possible. It also introduced a large amount of legislation. Let me give you a few examples: equality of treatment between men and women in the social security system; extension of the period of entitlement to sickness benefit in connection with childbirth; extending the policy freedom of municipalities in the granting of special assistance; linking the minimum wage and benefits to wage developments; a reduction in the assistance allowance for school leavers up to 27 years of age. In the debate on the reform of the WAO in 1991, she said: 'Whoever wants to abolish the WAO must abolish me first'. However, as a member of the cabinet, she did not escape painful measures. A proposal in 1993 to further reduce assistance for young people between 21 and 27 years of age was not welcomed by her own party. The conflict eventually led to her resignation as Secretary of State. However, Mrs Ter Veld has not allowed this conflict to stand in the way of further involvement with the party. "Loyaal to the bone" wrote Trouw about this. On 13 June 1995, Mrs Ter Veld was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. Here she was chairman of the Committee on Health, Welfare and Sport. In addition, she dealt with the issues of housing, finance and Antillean affairs. Also in this house she was known as a very open, sincere, curious, creative and witty person. A few called her "catty," but this description may have had more to do with her great love for cats than with her personality. Mrs Ter Veld saw the significance of the First Chamber mainly in reviewing legislative proposals on their added value in practice. In a column in 2001, she argued that if a law is not properly enforceable, cannot be effective and is not enforced, that law can just as well only be hung in a picture frame. She also stated that the First Chamber does not make a purely political assessment, but only dips a foot in the political bathwater. At her farewell to the Chamber in 2003, Mrs Ter Veld and colleague Willem Witteveen presented a collection of poetry, in which she had included a self-written poem on the role of the First Chamber. I read it to you so that this poem may also be preserved in the Acts. The sound muffled, thick carpets on the floor and hanging on the wall The spoken word almost never makes it to the newspaper. Is that what the journalists are to blame for? Senators discuss the laws for our country Lawfulness, feasibility and Possible incompatibility. Some sleep, the debate gets bogged down. Different, but hardly fight and I used my mind I'd like to throw the law now. in high state college wastebasket But it can't be. It would split the coalition. And the political primate is across the street. Elske ter Veld felt at home in politics, but also believed that she could only make a real difference in people's daily lives outside the Chambers. It has therefore carried out a large number of social functions. For example, she was chairman of the Council Chamber Sinti and Roma Foundation, the Council Chamber Civil War Victims' Benefits Act and the Start Foundation. A large part of her commission work was aimed at promoting women's empathy. She believed that the position of women could only be improved if there was an equal distribution of power in society. She passionately encouraged women to take matters into their own hands and not to wait for new opportunities to emerge. May our respect for her person and her great merits for society and our parliamentary democracy be to the support of her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I'm suspending the sitting for a very brief moment.
