ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. I see the Minister wants to stand up immediately, but he still has to wait for the questions. I do understand his eagerness to answer, because this is a matter that deserves a quick answer. Unfortunately, it is the umpteenth time that we have to talk about Turkey and the incorruptible things that are taking place there in Question Time. We may do so every month, because more and more people are becoming victims of Erdogan's whims. Two months ago, 1,000 agents were arrested and last year thousands of judges, prosecutors, military and civil servants. Last week, a major human rights defender was arrested, namely the President of Amnesty Turkey, Mr Kiliç. This naturally happened, as was the case with the others, under the guise of involvement in the Gülen movement. By the way, he wasn't arrested alone, but together with 22 other lawyers. These were often arrests with no or very little evidence, and certainly without transparency. It's a worrying trend. We cannot tolerate these cleansings. It is our expensive duty to stand up for these people, who are fighting for freedom in their own country, because the Turkish government not only seems to increasingly sidestep human rights in their own country, but also to target those people in Turkey who are fighting to defend those same human rights. My group therefore welcomes the statements by the European Union, the Americans and the Germans condemning Kiliç's arrest. Amnesty himself hopes, I quote, 'a storm of protest'. I hope that the European Member States, and certainly the Netherlands, will do their utmost to get this man out of prison. Amnesty is asking people to send an e-mail to plead for release. I'd like to ask the Minister to pick up the phone and do the same. Has the Dutch embassy taken action? Could that have led to a result? Is the Minister prepared to plead for release? At this week's Foreign Affairs Council, can he also call for an EU declaration which also advocates the release of Mr Kiliç?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. The President of Amnesty International in Turkey, an organisation which we all respect, has been defending human rights in his country, Turkey, for many years now. His arrest comes on top of the many arrests, namely 50,000, which followed since the coup attempt of 15 July 2016. Last Friday it became known that Kiliç was formally charged and was arrested following alleged membership of the Gülen movement. That's very serious. It is important to take immediate action in this regard. I think Mr Sjoerdsma is quite right about that. This is also a special case because it concerns the head of the human rights organisation, the watchdog, which is so important right now. Actually, that head's been knocked off. We have looked at a number of points directly at how we can take action as effectively as possible. That is, firstly, through the European Union. It is always most powerful when you send out the signal that this cannot be done on behalf of all the countries of the European Union. The High Representative did this, too. It has said that if Turkey cannot prove the accusations quickly and in concrete terms, Mr Kiliç must be released by means of an immediate release. I agree. Secondly, I instructed my embassy in Ankara to contact Kiliç's lawyer directly. The important thing is that he is actually released in the light of what I have just said. With that contact we want to find out how he is doing and what steps they are going to take. That contact with the lawyer has now taken place and we will continue to do so. It is still completely unclear to us, and I am also afraid of Mr Kiliç, for which he is now accused. According to the media, it would be about participation in a particular app, the Bylock app. I can't confirm that here. At least we're in direct contact with the lawyer now. That is to go in the direction Mr Sjoerdsma calls and to achieve that. Mr Sjoerdsma's last point is quite right. I have the plan to bring this up in Luxembourg next Monday with the fellow Foreign Ministers to see how we can operate effectively in this area. It's not easy to do that so far. I can imagine that, depending on that, we would ask the Prime Minister to raise this in some form or another at the European Council. It is someone who fights for human rights in Turkey and has a special responsibility and position. That is why the Dutch Government has reacted quite directly, together, of course, with colleagues from the United States, Ireland and Germany, to move this matter forward in the direction that Mr Sjoerdsma has put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you for the answer and for the clear concern that the Minister shares with me. Thank you for doing so much work, for raising the issue at European level and, if necessary, for asking the Prime Minister to do something about it. That is, of course, right, because this is about the head of a leading human rights organisation, as the Minister himself says. I do not want to create a hierarchy between human rights defenders, because one is not more important than the other, but this is someone who gives a face to the concerns of an organisation that is respected by many. I would like to ask the Minister one more thing about this case. Tomorrow, an appeal against his detention will be filed. The decision on that appeal will probably follow Thursday or next week at the latest. I would like to stress two things to the Minister, although I think it will go well on its own. The first is that an additional European signal must, of course, be effective. I agree with the Minister. The question is whether that is possible for the appeal. The second thing I would like to ask is whether the Minister, if it were to come to criminal proceedings, let us hope that it is not prepared to ensure that the criminal proceedings can be followed closely by a European Member State or by the Netherlands. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to mention a matter which concerns it. We discussed this with Minister Ploumen in April. It concerns the twenty Dutch who are still in prison and cannot leave the country because of the same kind of allegations, namely links with the Gülen movement. Minister Ploumen said in April: we are working on a solution. Now I ask this Minister about the state of affairs at the moment. What was the outcome of the like-minded meeting that Minister Ploumen talked about at the time? This Minister has personally raised this issue at a high political level. Has it been possible to get these Dutch back to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	First of all, on the first point. I think the signal from the European Union is crystal clear. The fact that we are discussing this again in Parliament this afternoon, I think, is also clear for the profession. As I said, I will also raise this with colleagues in the European Union. That can and should be followed up. Mr Sjoerdsma then asked about the possibilities of attending a possible trial. It depends on the profession whether it will be necessary or not. It is well known that relations between the Netherlands and Turkey are still tense, but at least I am prepared to look together with the European Union at how we can be present. I think the eyes and ears should be there. I'll do my best to do that, but I can't tell you if that's gonna work right now. I can't commit myself to results right now, but I think it's a good thing. I do not have any further information on the matter of the twenty Dutch at the moment. Of course, we are working hard on this, including with other colleagues in the European Union. I don't have the numbers that we're talking about right now. It may be a matter of trust, but we are doing the best we can behind the scenes in the interests of these Dutch people. It would not be wise to go into this very concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is a kind of evergreen: Turkey in the Lower House. Every month there is something about Turkey. This is a very poignant example, but it fits into a pattern. They are not incidents, it is a pattern of a country that systematically tackles people who have a different opinion than the government. I welcome the strong signals given by the Foreign Minister, but I would like to ask him, following Turkey's refusal to receive parliamentarians from the NATO alliance in Turkey, how he sees the relationship between the EU, NATO and Turkey. Is Turkey now an ally or is it, above all, a country that is in our way, that is violating human rights and also violating human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	The answer to the last question is: yes, human rights are being violated. The other questions put by Mr Knops have recently been the subject of an extensive debate. I don't want that to get bogged down in a short characterization right now. We have said that the government is acting on the basis of the Omtzigt motion for a resolution with regard to the European Union. This means that we want the Commission to present a short-term assessment of the constitutional changes, the state of human rights and the so-called Copenhagen criteria. That motion is being carried out. That is the way in which we look at this problem with the agreement of the entire Chamber. That is a tense relationship; I want to make no mistake about that. We have had a discussion about whether we should pull the plug, or whether the other side should do so, or whether we can still manage it in one way or another. We are operating according to the motion tabled by Mr Knops's colleague, Mr Omtzigt. As a result of the question on the issue between Germany and Turkey, I have already said publicly that I support the position of the German Government. I think that in a democracy we should be able to visit our own troops. I have seen during the last visit of my colleague from Germany that at least this seems difficult and that it will probably be decided definitively. I would like to keep my finger on the pulse, because it is a decision of the German Government to see if it will keep the troops there. Moreover, I do not go into the bilateral relations between Germany and Turkey. There is, of course, a NATO alliance, but I also have my own problems to solve at the moment with Turkey, and I would like to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	I could repeat it to Mr Knops: we can stand here almost every week to talk about the uncomfortable ally of Turkey. That is why it is a good thing that we, I hope, have a debate in the short term in order to be able to discuss all these issues at once. On this subject, the Kiliç case, I have two questions. The first question is whether the Dutch Government has considered following the example of the Americans and the Germans in order to issue a bilateral statement, not just to respond in the press. I am asking for this all the more because the European declaration could gain strength, and then I softly express myself. Then there's my second question. The last two times we talked about this, last time with your colleague Mrs Ploumen, we asked for information on the matters in Rotterdam, the consulate in Rotterdam and the rising number of declarations. We haven't received that information yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	I heard one question, namely on the issue of the bilateral declaration. Of course that's been considered. The most effective thing is to do it together as a European Union. The power of the whole is always more than one, but let there be no misunderstanding: there has been no reason not to do so, both publicly and in the direction of Turkey, because we would then be sending a weaker signal. On the contrary, my view is that this is probably a sharper signal, precisely because unity in the European Union must be preserved. The way we operated in the direction of the lawyers there and considering the activities of the embassy is crystal clear. Moreover, I very much agree with the statements made by Germany and the United States. That's what I'd like to say here. With regard to this information, I will look into exactly what is happening. Apparently, we haven't fully informed the Chamber about that yet. So we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	That is a promise, isn't it, Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Sure, or there'd have been a rappel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Exactly. Then we have come to the end of this oral Question Time. I thank the Minister and suspend the sitting until 3 p.m.
