ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend we heard more than a third of them! The amount of the accounts sent to the health insurance company CZ is too high. Of course, that's an idiot high percentage. Of course, where the meat is chopped, chips fall, but we must be able to assume that these accounts are correct. That is still not the case. These are hospital bills in particular. It is of course good that the insurer encourages people to check the note themselves, also for payout. Something may go wrong, but this is out of proportion. So my question is: what does the government think of the fact that 36% of these accounts turned out to be too high? If customers alone make so many mistakes, how many mistakes are there really in these kinds of accounts? This is still only about one health insurance provider. So the question is, is this the tip of the iceberg? How much care money is lost here in total? What amount would we not pay? 50PLUS also wants to know how this happened. What mistakes are there in the system? Is there a pattern? Or is there another reason? Is the government prepared to investigate this further? What does the government want to do about it? It is a good thing that insured people are watching and thinking about the account, but then the account must be understandable and accessible. This is often not the case, because customers do not always have easy insight into the account. I had my own surgery twice recently, and I didn't see a bill. Isn't it better to introduce a simpler system? Shouldn't all those health insurance companies be billing more clearly and more easily? Finally, how does the government intend to persuade insurers to improve their control of these accounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the figures: insurer CZ has a total of about 230 million in claims. There have been 25,000 reports of insured people saying that something may have been wrong. At 9,000 of them, something turned out to be wrong. Then we'll talk about 0.03%. It's good to outline that perspective. Secondly, it is very good that insured people can look more closely at whether the note is wrong. That's actually a system of old times. Then you got the bill yourself and you had to declare it to your insurance company. When you declared, you could tell whether the bill was correct or not. The declaration system was then introduced. That's much more customer-friendly. The declarations are automatic. Since 1 June 2014, the understanding of the costs of a controller has become much more transparent. There's more information on the note. The information is written more easily and can also be seen on the page that every insured person has at the insurer's site. You can see the bills yourself. CZ has done this in a very customer-friendly way. If you think something's wrong, you can report it there and the insurance company will find out. Insured people are dying for that, too. The cost-awareness assessment sent to the Chamber last October shows that 80% of insured persons also want and use the details. Of the people who think something's wrong, more than half of them report it. So that is a very good thing. All insurers work with such a system, in which you can see the accounts on your page of your insurer's site. Of course, it's a little dependent on the insurance company you're with. In this way, the notifications can be used. I like to say that it's not always fraud. There could just be an error in the account. This is also apparent from the fact that there is something going on with many reports, but it is not fraud. It's a good thing those reports are being made. Insurers all have systems like this. CZ is the first to do it in a very customer-friendly way and can thus add up the amounts. In short, it is a good thing that it is happening, good that insured people can watch. It is a limited percentage, 0.03, but every euro that is not well spent is one too many. It is a very good thing that this is happening. VWS also encourages insurers to continue and that this insight is given not only to medical-specialist care but also to, for example, ggz and first-line care. We are going to take these further steps in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	I can't hear the Secretary of State say how he thinks supervision can be improved. Of course it's very nice that clients and patients can watch. But, like I said, I just had surgery and I didn't see a bill. On the website of the NZa there is a manual on how to check your account via your insurance company, but first you have to look up the dbc codes and then check which prices are behind those dbcs. I can assure the Secretary of State that this is really a step too far for a lot of people. So 50PLUS also likes people to think and control, but there has to be a way of monitoring that reduces the size of this problem more structuralally? The Secretary of State is talking about 0.03%. That's still 2.4 million. If this is just the tip of the iceberg, it is a lot more money and that is sin money that should be spent on real care. Again, my main question is: how does the government intend to improve supervision, control tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	In the past, insured persons received their accounts from the healthcare provider, often very late. They had to collect and file with the insurer and then they were paid. People had to wait a long time for their money. After a lot of discussion, this led to a system in which the insured person no longer has to take care of all this himself, but in which the accounts are transferred from the healthcare provider to the insured person and declared in a very customer-friendly way. Since 1 June 2014, it has been introduced that all insurers ensure that anyone who wishes to view the account can view it via the personal page at the insurer. That is not the only control, because insurers carry out formal and material checks. Healthcare providers work with healthcare insurers to ensure correct registrations. The supervisors and investigation services, whose capacity in this area has also been increased, are working closely together to detect offenders. What has been added since 1 June 2014 is that insured people can look more closely into an otherwise simpler account. Indeed, looking up DB codes takes a lot of time, but they are now more customer-friendly and simpler in billing. With the physical checks of the insurers, which are further tightened, with the enhanced detection possibilities and with the possibility of being watched by patients, we have a system that brings us closer and closer to an almost perfect account. Mistakes will always occur. Every euro that is mis-spent is too much, but with this approach we can work together to ensure that the accounts are as accurate as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	So I understand that the Secretary of State is actually satisfied with the way things are going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes, considering what has happened over the past few years in terms of customer friendliness and digitisation, as well as the ability to get patients to take a look at their accounts. That is very important, not only for cost awareness, but also for the control side. That's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	50PLUS would like to see more supervision done. We are very pleased that clients are watching, but public supervision will also have to be tightened up, because every penny that does not actually go to care is a lost penny.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	It's really good that patients are watching. This way they can take out the most special mistakes but also save on the own risk they have paid. It's just really still a challenge to just understand bills. Many terms are technical and difficult to explain. I know that the Ministry has been working hard with patient organisations to make accounts easier to understand. How's that going? What battle can still be made so that people can see it before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	Those accounts have already been made much clearer, precisely in the aforementioned overview. We are not only aiming for further improvement, but also for further enlargement. This now applies to medical-specialist care, and it is currently being examined, together with the patient organisations and the sectors, whether this can be done with the ggz and the first line, so that we can successfully introduce it across the whole range. This is a very valid point. Watching the insured is essential, not only for cost awareness, but also for control. We are expanding that to several sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is well known that the SP has long advocated a system without bureaucratic health insurers. In this specific case, it is said that it is a good thing that patients get insight, that it costs something and that it is complicated to read such an account. But you can't expect the patient to have to look at his own health bill as a kind of detective, can you? Isn't that an excellent job for the health insurance company? If that is no longer the responsibility of the health insurance provider, what is the added value of the health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	You are absolutely right about that. That is why so much attention has been paid to the material and formal controls carried out by the insurers themselves, which have improved further in recent years. This has been agreed with the healthcare providers. Primary formal and material control should simply be carried out by the health insurance provider. In addition, there are supervisors and investigation services. As an additional point, the insured person can watch, not only with a view to cost awareness, but also to see if there are things that stand out for him or her. That is very important, because he or she is the one who has been given the care so that he or she can discover things that no one else can see. It is very good that there is; not as a primary control point, but as a supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Secretary of State for the detailed reply. He describes well how on the one hand the comfort of the insured person is regulated by paying in advance, while on the other hand it is very important that an insured person himself has an insight into the costs that have been incurred. The VVD has advocated this for a long time, and that is now settled. Anyone can get insight, but insured people who want to can have an active role in checking the account. Well, this is often the case for those insured persons where their own risk is or is not fulfilled. Turns out that's an incentive to start checking. If it turns out that too much has indeed been declared, are people at their own risk sure that will be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	I checked that myself. If the insured person finds that too much has been paid, it is taken up by CZ and offset by any payments made by the insured person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's always about patient control. Does CZ have any insight into the causes of the errors? After all, there are quite a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's a floor hit that's still being made. There is some insight into the cause of the greatest number of reports: these are about pharmacy, followed by medical-specialist care and dental care. But the main cause lies in the provision of medicines. The underlying causes are examined even more closely. These are the three top categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. That brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
