ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. EUR 31.5 million is a huge amount, as far as I am concerned. It is not the top prize of the State lottery, but the bonus amount that APG awarded to 400 employees last year. APG is the executive of the pension fund ABP. One in five families in the Netherlands has settled their pension here; families who work hard for years and save their pension for their old age. Because of the financial crisis which was partly caused by the diseased bonus culture in the financial world, they have not seen their pension rise in recent years. Indexations were and are still far away. Last year even threatened discounts, while the groceries became more expensive every year, including for the people who now benefit from their pensions. Our pension system belongs to all of us. People of all ages carry together the lusts and the burdens. Apparently, this doesn't apply to APG. In 2015, €28.5 million of bonuses were paid. This year a higher bonus will be paid to fewer people, an average of €74.000. This is inherent in the culture, according to a spokesperson of APG. However, we know that this culture is a recipe for problems and that pension money certainly does not match a perverse bonus culture. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Does she agree with me that APG should not pay any bonuses, especially as long as it is not indexed? In what way can the State Secretary give more voice to pension participants when it comes to remuneration policies in pension funds? The ABP belongs to the government. Can the Secretary of State, through Minister Plasterk, raise this important element, the perverse bonus culture, for the discussion in the Pension Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. When I hear these kind of bonus amounts, to say the least, my eyebrows also go up. In concrete terms, the ABP can grab on to its executive and ask what its remuneration policy is. Mr Van Dijk says that the ABP is run by the social partners. The employers in this area are, of course, also very closely related to the government. In this case, I would be happy to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security, of course, that other governments are also actively involved in the discussion with the ABP that it seems to me to be a good idea to discuss the bonus culture at APG. In recent years, thanks to the legislation on the communication of pension funds, we have finally been able to understand how the remuneration policy has taken shape. Before that, this wasn't a sledgehammer or a sledgehammer. I think it is very important that this was also a question that the members of the pension funds really have an influence on how the implementation of their funds takes shape. We have arranged this in the new law on governance. Fortunately, participants already have much more influence. I would also like to call on them to make this commitment at the ABP. It is also the subject of other funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you for the answers from the Secretary of State. I am glad that she agrees with me that we jointly have an assignment to put an end to the perverse bonus culture, which will also lead to worse pensions. We know what happened during the financial crisis. I do not have the idea that traders who deal with the pension funds of many Dutch people have in their heads that they should be very careful about it. I think that caution is really very important and that we should all work together to get the perverse bonus culture out of the pension sector. I know that the Secretary of State also consults a lot with the entire pension field. She is right to say that this applies to several funds. Is the Secretary of State prepared to keep this up in the discussions she is having with the whole pension field and to come back to that in June? In June we will have a general discussion on pensions. I really think that this is an essential part of the trust that people should have in the management of pension money. However, because of the perverse bonus culture, confidence remains far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Last year, the cabinet reduced the variable remuneration within financial companies, including in this context. These companies are subject to a bonus ceiling of 40%. If you want to sit up there, you have to be able to support that very well. Of course, with this law in my backpack towards the pension field, I also want to show my attitude. That's what I do with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	This is a questioner from the Labour Party to a Secretary of State of the same party. We had a discussion in the Chamber on the same subject a year ago. Nothing happened in that year. In fact, more bonuses have been paid. The amounts are higher than in 2015. I therefore have the following question to the Secretary of State. How on earth is it possible that at a time when people are worried about their pension, at a time when even the president of the ABP does not contradict the fact that a discount might be needed for 2018, bonuses will still be paid? Can the Secretary of State explain how the hell that's possible? Does she agree with the PVV that bonuses cannot be paid, but that they should be indexed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Now I could easily say that this is a market party. The APG is, of course, a market player, an operator. In fact, as governments, of course, we have no control over that. However, I think the honourable Member has understood me very well. I would point out that in this case the ABP, but that of course applies to all the funds, chooses its own executives and therefore agrees with the remuneration policy. This in turn means that managers of these funds can look very closely at this. And what's the big deal? Something has happened in the last year. As you can see, the bonuses that are still being paid again, I also add my eyebrows on... are only paid out to the asset managers, and no longer to the rest of the performers. You can say whatever you want. I understand that it is said worldwide that bonuses are part of this type of asset management, but I also think that it is rightly said that we have not lost weight for nothing. That was also because of these practices. I am therefore very pleased that attention is being paid to this matter this afternoon, so that, in the main, it is once again said that this bonus culture must have had its longest time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr De Jong may put a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Of course, this doesn't help us at all. The Secretary of State says the eyebrows are frowning and it's not right that it happens. She also says: yes, there have been a little less bonuses paid and there are better conditions under which bonuses can be paid. The point is that people at home are afraid that next year, in 2018, they will be cut back on their pensions and that they will see millions of bonuses being paid. That can't be true! Why isn't the Secretary of State sending out a political signal? Why doesn't she say: up to here and no more; no more bonuses are paid, there is indexing, the money doesn't go to the top but to those who put it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I did not say for nothing that the cabinet restricted these variable remunerations just last year. The cabinet didn't do that for nothing either. It may be very clear that it is in itself a thorn in our eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to stress the confirmation that the Secretary of State, as an employer, informs the Empire that this will be looked at very carefully and that the Chamber will be informed of this. In addition to Mr Van Dijk's questions, I would like to say that bonuses do not lead to cuts. Other measures are needed for this, namely a change in the financial supervisory framework. It's about the indexing. We believe that as long as there are bonuses, there should actually be indexed, an improper means of pressure. We are concerned with the financial supervisory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	That wasn't a question. The question was indeed, as Mr Van Dijk said: do you, as an employer, also wish to raise this point of attention in the relevant gremia? The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Are we going to get a letter about that, so a letter stating whether that is going to lead to something? Because if this is just passed on, we don't know what the reaction is yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	The more you talk, Mr Van Rooijen, the more this will count as a second supplementary question. You want a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	You understand that this is a matter for my colleague, Mr Plasterk. I should therefore like to ask my colleague, Mr Plasterk, if he wishes to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	We're witnessing a remarkable play or, in fact, the repetition of a play. Last year there was also 30 million in bonuses, there were also parliamentary questions from Mr Van Weyenberg at the time, and there was also an answer from Secretary of State Klijnsma. The answer was identical: I am going to address this to Mr Plasterk. A year later, nothing happened and we still get "we're gonna bring it up" and "I'll see if there's another letter coming to the Chamber." Well, how do you want to get it into the deepest drawer? Well, that's pretty good of Mrs. Klijnsma. What does Mrs Klijnsma think about what is going to happen in the next few weeks, in fact, I think she will be in the cabinet for a few weeks to come, so that she can do something about the bonus culture she despises herself? Or are we gonna get a third play next year with maybe a different amount of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is nice that this is discussed in this way, because it is indeed frappez toujours, in good Dutch. So, over and over and over and over again. We have made the legislation I have just spoken about for a reason. I have also been very closely involved with Mr Omtzigt, with the Chamber of Parliament, in making the law on the governance of pension funds and the law on the communication of pension funds. What is important is that pension fund members are now much better placed to denounce this kind of complexity. I continue to insist that the participants fill in their positions properly. I'd like to offer that backup anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	But do you have a term? That is important, because I do understand that this was promised a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I promised a year ago that we, as a government employer, would also raise issues. That's what happens in practice. There is, of course, a whole round of negotiations every time. That's inherent. I also said that things have improved. Within the APG, the board of directors no longer receives bonuses. So that is a step forward, but we will have to get it right again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr President, I say to you that we do not get an answer, not this time and not last year. The Secretary of State says that the participants must do it and that the other half is with the employers. That's the government; that's Minister Plasterk. Or the Secretary of State gives Minister Plasterk an incredible insufficient amount because he hasn't done anything in the past year because of her concerns, because he was too busy with all sorts of other things, or she says that the cabinet is going to do something now. I assume that if a letter is asked for here three times, there will also be a letter next week or the following week, stating what is actually being done by the employer. This should not just be dumped with the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have already said once that this letter will indeed be sent and that I am going to ask my colleague, Mr Plasterk...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Within what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's up to Mr Plasterk, so I'm going to ask him. He'll have to hold the meeting. I have also said that there have been significant improvements in the last year. I'll stick with that. I really think we should put the participants in a good position. That's what happened. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	However, this is an important point because there is no time limit attached to the promise of a letter by the Minister of the Interior. I would therefore ask you to send the letter to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	What I can say, of course, is that I will let you know when my colleague can send the letter to you. I can't fill that out for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think we should leave it at that, Mr Van Rooijen.
