ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the AIVD report (Returners in the picture). I warmly welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the MPs and the people who are following this debate in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our national security is under great pressure, under pressure from Muslim terrorists who are well trained, even at a young age. They often, usually, have a Dutch passport, but also with passports from other Schengen countries, they are a danger because our borders are still wide open. Thousands of thousands! There are loose ends in the Schengen area. Muslim terrorists like the Dutch and European elite are still welcome in this country. In addition, we know that Muslim terrorists hide in the asylum stream and come with us to the Netherlands. It is ticking time bombs, and our country is now in greater danger than ever before. Last week, an AIVD report showed that the Netherlands should take into account a larger flow of returners from ISIS area. The AIVD states that Muslims who have been there for a short time are often well trained and that Muslims who stay there longer, in many cases have participated in the armed struggle for Islam. The report also states that they are ideologically hardened. That means as much as: they have come to know Islam; the jihad is their life. The group that is still expected back in the Netherlands has often been staying there for more than a year, has generally participated in combat and poses a risk of return. In other words, there are still a lot of ticking time bombs coming at us. The attacks in Paris and Brussels, among others, were co-executed by returned Muslim terrorists. Some were in the Netherlands before or in the meantime. The perpetrator of the horror attack in Berlin travelled through the Netherlands to Italy, but also in the event of attacks such as the decapitated priest in Rouen, the Thalys in 2015, an attack that was barely prevented by two brave men, Charlie Hebdo, the preventative attacks in Verviers and the Jewish Museum in Brussels were involved. That can only be done through those open borders. A question to both ministers: are they finally prepared to see that the open borders are a danger to our country? The AIVD report mentions the fact that Muslim terrorists use old Muslim terror networks in our country after returning to the Netherlands. We know from reports after the attacks in Brussels that these networks are the hiding places from which surgery is taking place. These networks do not report their violent brothers to the services or the police. When it comes down to it, they all choose Islam, so for misery, bloodshed and terror. Not only are they not reported, today journalistic research has shown that dozens of people are free and that nothing happens to them. When do these ministers take these figures out of society? In 2014, the government drew up an action plan for jihadism, two and a half years ago. Those were a number of loose measures and plans that were quickly wrapped around a cover and a staple because of fear of the PVV: look, what an actor we have. That was the goal, to fake action. In the meantime, we're two and a half years ahead, and the threat is only getting bigger. How many returners have been stopped, returned or put in jail? How much was the passport and nationality taken from? How many can never get to Dutch soil again? I'd like some clarity. It will undoubtedly be in the various letters. I have seen numbers, but it would be good to make it clear again in plenary. Of course, there are still thousands of killing machines in the ISIS area that can also come to us via, for example, the flow of asylum migrants from Libya. We've got thousands more undocumented. We don't know who they are, and there could be fighters in there, too. The Netherlands has therefore become increasingly unsafe under Rutte II. Where we as PVV have been warning all these years, the AIVD confirms in last week's report that there is a risk of much more insecurity. What are both rulers going to do to stop the ticking time bombs from ISIS territory? Are they closing the borders? Are passports being taken? Are people being sent back? Or is it okay with both rulers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Everyone is aware of the dangers of returning jihadists. I think we can say something special about this on the last Chamber day. Our security is mainly in the hands of our services. Let me, on behalf of the CDA, thank those services very much for all they do for us. They ensure that it is as safe as possible in the Netherlands. It's the STUD, the AIVD, the cops in the neighborhoods and the other cops. We owe them much thanks. Let us say this explicitly here today. What are we going to do when we look at this terribly dangerous group? There are three things: preventing them from going, preventing them from returning and tackling them when they return. What is the government doing? There's actually too little insight into who's going to go. The chief of police has indicated for a reason that he is very concerned about the pervasive centralisation of the police, which means she is actually withdrawing from the neighborhoods. What's the government's response to this Chief Constable's alarm call? People would rather not return. We do not fully understand what we have heard from the cabinet. The approach of the cabinet is one of guided back with the Royal Marechaussee. That can't be true, can it? That is a very special approach. We will not have them escorted back to the Netherlands voluntarily, especially if they have a dual nationality. Can the government confirm that the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship actually applies, that people can be declared an undesirable stranger and that this actually happens? It is bad enough that this bill in the First Chamber has not been supported by a number of parties. I refer to the Christian Union, the Labour Party, D66 and GroenLinks. Luckily, it did make a majority. So we can do it, but does it happen? If these people have been there and they return, then what? The CDA has always said: secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have a few reservations about the criticism, at least it seemed, of the CDA that people accompanied return to the Netherlands. If Dutch nationality has not been taken away, is it very good that we see who is returning to the Netherlands? Then we can arrest them here, prosecute them and hopefully deradicalize them. Surely we cannot say: find an illegal way to return to the Netherlands? We won't be able to see it at all. That seems really dangerous to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	I really think it's the opposite world. The people who are still travelling at this time are not the idealists of many years ago who thought they had to go there and save people. We believe that Dutch nationality should be taken away from those sitting there: no Dutch nationality, withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. To date this can only be done with dual nationality, but there are now international sounds that this would also be possible with a single nationality. We may need to talk about that again. We don't want these people back. If their Dutch nationality has been withdrawn, we want them to be declared undesirable foreigners. This does not fit in with the fact that we are escorting them back to the Netherlands. As far as we're concerned, it's going away and not coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	Now ideology is getting in the way of safety in the Netherlands. I know what you're saying. We also voted in favour of that law in the Lower House. People come back, for example because they have a single nationality. Then you just have to do what's safest for the Netherlands. If you put your principles so first that you don't want to guide those people, they come back illegally and then we can't see it anymore. I find that incomprehensible and bad for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	It's not about them returning without a visual. We say don't let them go back. That is our responsibility. We will have to do everything we can to do that. I think it is a bit of an odd argument and, in fact, the reverse world to put our military corps at risk in order to ensure that these people can safely return to the Netherlands, when they have completely, but totally turned away from this democratic legal order. You don't go looking for terrorists with a light to say they can come to the safe Netherlands. This is particularly true because we know that they are almost never imprisoned. Of the 50 there are 40 walks in the Netherlands. That is what happens in the end. So don't bring them to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	I can imagine the moral outrage very well. I'll share that. However, if you look at it from a pragmatic point of view, the next question simply arises. What would you prefer? Would you rather they were locked up here? We know who they are. Or do you prefer that they walk around in or outside the Netherlands and plot their evil plans? Isn't it just a matter of pragmatism to put away the whole moral issue of Dutchity and nationality and simply say: we are actually working on our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	I find it a bit unfortunate that GroenLinks also thinks this. If we are having debates here to ensure that we can get a look at these dangerous criminals and terrorists, GroenLinks is the first to say: no, no, no powers for the AIVD and the police to get a look at them. And then GroenLinks now says: we won't have a look at it, get them the Netherlands? No. The CDA has a different story. Keep them from going and make sure you've got eyes on it. If they're there, make sure they can't come back. If they're here, lock them up. That's the CDA package. GroenLinks' vision is consistent, I understand, but she is not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mrs Van Toorenburg makes a small mistake of thinking somewhere. At the moment that you could decide to take someone's passport, that person is known and in the picture. Otherwise, you can't take that nationality away from him. So we are not talking about dragnet powers, and so on. We are talking here about concrete identifiable individuals, with whom you will be facing the next choice from that moment on. Are you trying to keep them out of the border, when, of course, that border is never waterproof? Or are you gonna grab them in their collars and make sure they're tried? The latter simply seems to me to be the most effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	Now GroenLinks really makes a mistake of thinking. Because before you know who's a danger, before you know who's in a terrorist network and who's in it, our security services will have to get a look at it. And what is GroenLinks bouncing at? That's getting eyes on our dangerous, outbound jihadists. If our security services are going to have them back in the 'orchestra bank' today, I am always saying that they want to use those powers well, with all their integrity, then we are not giving them that opportunity and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	That is a genuine falsehood, and I cannot let this happen, Mr President. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that GroenLinks would be against us actually getting eyes on terrorists. That is not true, and she cannot stand it. You can discuss privacy more generally with each other. In addition, you have to make a careful assessment. The CDA does not always make that assessment very careful. But all efforts by the AIVD and the police to track down and get an image of both travellers and travellers, receive the warm support of GroenLinks. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows this as well as I do!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	You have made your point, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	But I'd still like to respond, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	As long as you don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	No, but I still want to respond to it. Unfortunately, it isn't. We want powers to get eyes on people. However, there are some parties in the Chamber who are trying to prevent this. I'm sorry to hear that. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	Welcome to the black and white world of the CDA Group. Prime Minister Rutte has also used some very tough language on this subject. He then said that he felt that jihadists should die in Syria rather than return to the Netherlands. I am very curious to see how Mrs Van Toorenburg stands in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	That's how we do all the debates again. The CDA has also made a fairly clear statement on this issue. We don't think so. We do not think that a prime minister should say die. I do not think that is a suitable terminology for a prime minister. I do not think it is a view of the Prime Minister either. But now we're actually going to organize a kind of safe return from the Dutch government to get our jihadists to the Netherlands. That's completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	I find it somewhat reassuring in itself that the CDA Group does not accept the words of the Prime Minister. At least that's something else. But I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg talking and it seems that she finds something similar. She's just standing here saying things...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	I must interrupt you, Mr Verhoeven. It's very noisy in the hallway. The debate is almost impossible to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	Guys, quiet down the hall!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's it, Mr Verhoeven. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, if I can support you in your task, of course I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	You're very flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	That is how you know me, and I will interrupt you very briefly and also make a brief contribution. Mrs Van Toorenburg says: I am not taking over the Prime Minister's words. I am pleased about that, and that is still somewhat constitutional. But she also made a speech in which she left the rule of law very far and actually suggests that she only wants toughness, rather than effectiveness. On the one hand, the CDA Group says that it does not want to support the Prime Minister's words, while on the other hand it says just about everything and has a lot of criticism of parties that do think about the way the rule of law is organised in the Netherlands. That's why there's almost no middle ground. In fact, I find it rather weak that Mrs Van Toorenburg talks tough all the time without becoming concrete, when when I get concrete, she says that what the Prime Minister says goes too far. Then what does the CDA want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	I am really listening to the story of D66 with increasing amazement. I see D66 group chairman Pechtold here bouncing at the microphone: how can we prevent us from having a view of people, we need to know where they are from the border, we need to know where they are all day, why doesn't the cabinet know that? Then we have a law here to make sure we get a little visibility on criminals and then D66 votes against. That's one. The other thing is that we think people shouldn't leave. If they have left the Dutch rule of law, we do not want them to be brought to the Netherlands with fantastic horns and bells. D66 considers that we do not maintain the rule of law. I don't recognize myself in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	As a CDA, we want to prevent people from returning and at least not having them returned under the protection of the security services. Because then we are also putting the security services at risk, and we are responsible for that. If they come back, there will undoubtedly be criticism of this as well. As a CDA, we believe that these people should be secured by default. There is still no standard policy on this. We have now heard again that out of the 50 people who have returned, 40 are not trapped. We have had legislation here that has to go through the Chamber with steam and boiling water. I call the naked short selling, dealing with a few bucks, a little money. In a week and a half we had passed the bill on this subject. How is it that we still can't deal with the law here that makes the stay on terrorist territory criminal, so that the prosecution can do something and we have actually implemented the extended pretrial detention? It's still not settled. I blame the cabinet for that. When can we do that very quickly? Furthermore, we are still struggling with capacity problems. In the much-discussed police and justice report, we read that detective teams must drop everything from their hands, because suddenly there is something about counter-terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. Which means those teams can't do their job. We'll be expecting more fighters back. Do we get this tension on an even bigger scale? There is also a glimmer of light on this miserable dossier, because in Europe they have seen the light. Good news from the European Parliament: there will be a legislative package on combating terrorism, in which one of the minimum standards is the criminalisation of the glorification of terrorist violence. Let there have been a lot of parties to this, including the Labour Party and the VVD in Europe. When we talk here all the time about glorifying terrorist violence, which the CDA is trying to criminalize, we suddenly find the Labour Party and the VVD on our side in Europe. Are they gonna fix that real quick? They will have to implement this. Or do we still have to submit the proposal that we have prepared before the election recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	I have the impression that previous debates are being held again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	That's true, but it just so happens not at this point. Unless you're referring to a little debate on the radio, which we were talking about, but not in this Chamber. On the radio I was quite ambushed by this news. Then I went to see what happened in Europe. A whole package of measures has been proposed. My group has rightly voted in favour, because there are a lot of good measures in that package. But now the CDA says, "Hey, that's exactly our law." I disagree on that. As far as I am concerned, we are broadening the questions to the rulers: is that exactly the CDA law in that package, or is it just a bit different?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	No, it's a whole package, and that's what I called it. But one of the elements of that package is criminalising the glorification of terrorist violence. It's in there. Apparently, that's what you're here for in Europe. I liked that. It made me happy, so I think we can do business now. If we hear from the cabinet today that it is going to implement it quickly, we do not need to make the final move to send the proposal to the Chamber, because then we will just get it neatly. But please don't wait that long again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	My question contained a statement that what is ahead in Europe is not at all the same as the CDA proposal. Fortunately, it is more linked to legal guarantees. But should we just ask the Minister? Then he can explain it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	It was my question, but I also asked Mr Recourt. Unfortunately, I have already received a somewhat more gloomy picture of this. Anyway, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. Brussels, Paris, Berlin and Istanbul; they are all beautiful cities, not far from the Netherlands, where in the last two years attacks have been carried out by terrorists who have often been returned from the IS war zone. They were jihadists who, after the battle in the caliphate, radicalised returned to Europe to commit an attack. With this reality and with the attacks in the countries around us, it is not surprising that in our country too people are afraid of an attack. It is therefore important to speak today about the AIVD's report on the 190 jihadists who may return to our country in the near future. Security services have been warning of a new set of returners from IS areas for some time now that IS is being cornered and the chances of fighters wanting to return to Europe are increasing. The difference with previous returners, according to the report, is that these are now jihadgoers who have stayed longer in the caliphate. They are therefore more thorough and long-term trained and trained, and have gained more combat experience as fighters for IS. From them, the security services warn of an even greater threat. It is therefore important to be alert and to remain vigilant, and to ask ourselves again and again whether we are doing everything we can to minimise the risk of an attack in our country. This cabinet has not been idle in this context in recent years. Since August 2014, there has been a wide range of measures that counter radicalisation and tackle potential terrorists. The cabinet has been proactive and pro-active and has led a large number of laws through parliament to ensure that terrorism does not get a grip on our society. The report also shows that we need to stay alert and not sit back. We are dealing with some 190 highly radicalised fighters who are still in the IS area and pose a threat to the national security of our country. These are warriors who often have a Dutch passport and are willing to commit an attack in our country, in their country anyway, to assist in the preparations for an attack or to recruit new fighters. The cabinet has adopted a series of important anti-terror laws which are designed to make life difficult for both travellers and returners. The policy is still aimed at preventing people from travelling out. We can take away potential travellers' passports and other travel documents to prevent them from travelling. With the Temporary Act administrative measures to combat terrorism, mayors can impose restrictions on freedom, such as an exit ban, a reporting obligation or a land ban on people who want to participate in the armed fight of IS. The necessary steps have also been taken with regard to returners. Since last week, Dutch nationality can be taken away from jihadgoers who have managed to get out. However, the cabinet is putting forward more measures aimed mainly at facilitating the detection and condemnation of terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mrs Tellegen of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, the VVD, praises the power of the cabinet, but at the beginning of her contribution she said that the Netherlands is more at risk than ever. She didn't say that with those words, but that's evident from the numbers she mentions. Then why are the borders still open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u36	I am indeed making an argument in which I conclude that this cabinet did not sit still for a day, or sat on its hands, in order to minimise the chance of an attack in our country. We go far in that; that may be clear. If we can, we'll take people's Dutch passports. We are going even further in our election programme. We just don't go as far as the PVV, which says that this country needs a fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u37	I didn't read that myself. It's funny that Mrs. Tellegen is a part of our program. She's always welcome. If Mrs Tellegen has good ideas, that is of course fine. I didn't find that fence anywhere near the PVV. Why are the borders still open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u38	I am somewhat surprised at the contribution. The PVV is not about anything else but that we can only secure our country in one way, with a fence around it. With that conviction, the PVV wants to make our country safe. That's not our solution. Thus, a long-cherished wish of the VVD is fulfilled: criminalising presence on terrorist territory. The Zijlstra motion is carried out with this. The time limit for remand is extended so that returned jihadgoers can be detained longer. The D.A.'s got a tighter approach. Last week, the prosecution announced that the commitment to the 190 potential returners was that everything would be done to prevent them from returning. For this purpose, the D.A.'s office shall draw up a file for each traveller. Evidence can sometimes be difficult, because most of the fighters are in the caliphate. Important data can nevertheless be collected mainly via the Internet. I would like to hear from the cabinet what it expects from this proactive approach of the Public Prosecutor, who, by the way, strongly supports the VVD. I also ask to what extent the new law on computer crime and the new law on intelligence and security services are relevant in this context. On March 23rd, there will be such a first criminal trial. The VVD is very curious to see what the judge's ruling in this case will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u39	We must note that the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently trying to quickly get criminal proceedings and default sentences, because it is afraid that these people will return. But we agreed that these two laws, on the criminalisation of residence on terrorist territory and on the extension of pre-trial detention, would soon come to the Chamber? Doesn't the VVD Group agree that this is taking far too long and that we need to be able to have these laws faster? We have been talking about this for months and we have still not seen the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u40	I know that these two legislative proposals, on pre-trial detention and on the criminalisation of residence on terrorist territory, are under preparation. Maybe they're already at the Council of State right now. However, let us ensure that they are careful laws, which will lead to effective action in the near future. The fact that we need a few months to draw up these laws carefully seems to me to be relevant and also relevant to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u41	A year and a half ago, we were talking about this. We have to drag and pull into this room to get it done. Eventually, we managed to track down the cabinet. Then I really don't understand why it must take so long. Sometimes certain laws are really needed. Let me give you the example of some kind of financial law: it is also very complicated and complex. Then all registers will be pulled open. In a week and a half we had a law. Now we have the threat outlined by the AIVD. We see the Public Prosecutor's Office solving it in panic, while the Cabinet drags forever with a bill that, according to other letters, should have been in the Chamber by now but is not even with the Council of State yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u42	I believe that the CDA fully agrees with the package of measures that this cabinet has come up with so far and with which it intends to come forward. The only comment I'm hearing from the CDA right now is that it's not going fast enough. Let it be. I think it is important that these laws should be introduced. They've been announced. I'm assuming they're actually in the Chamber within a few weeks. Maybe we can ask the Minister to tell us what's going on. Among the 190 jihadgoers are about 80 children. That is hardly imaginable and intensely sad, because no doubt many of these children have been traumatized. At the same time, they can also pose a real threat to our national security. After all, children from 9 years of age are already receiving combat training in Syria. They are trained by IS to become killing machines and thus, however sad, like their parents, pose a threat. How does the cabinet want to deal with these 80 children, and specifically with the children under the age of 12? Of course, a case-by-case assessment must be made of what care, what security measures and what other interventions are appropriate. What about under-supervised and expatriation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u43	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes. About 60 of the expatriated jihadgoers are wives. It often turns out to be an illusion to think that they go with them to mentally support their husbands or to cook for IS fighters. They support IS by recruiting individuals or by creating and spreading propaganda, or worse. Women with gas bottles and bomb belts were found abroad last year. How does the D.A. deal with this in the preliminary file-making? Are supporting acts for terrorism or the terrorist struggle sufficient to condemn someone in absentia?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. The jihad is the greatest threat to our national security. According to the AIVD, the warning signals are on dark red. There will be a huge stream of terrorists coming our way in the next few days. These recurring jihadists are far more dangerous than their predecessors. After all, they have a lot of combat experience, can handle explosives and have been indoctrinated by a life-threatening violence ideology. The naive open border policy enables them to move freely across Europe. It's the ideal recipe for chaos and terror. These ruthless terrorists even use jihad children for their thoughts of death and destruction. The cabinet is very shady about the exact status of the jihadists who have already returned. Now research by Brandpoint shows that no less than 40 of the 50 returners are just walking around freely. In only three cases participation in the battle in the caliphate has actually been proven. They're shocking and very poor results from the D.A.'s office. The current approach of the cabinet is a huge failure. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Of course, it is an improvement that the D.A. wants jihadists to be condemned by default. But it doesn't go far enough. In these times of enormous threat, tougher measures are needed to protect the Netherlands. That is why we reiterate our request for administrative detention. Secure recurring jihadists immediately. Friends of democratic states such as the UK, the US and Australia already have this opportunity. Let us follow their example. With only a notification obligation or an anklet, jihadists remain a great danger. They want to destroy everything we stand for: our democracy, our rule of law and our freedom. They should never return to our country. If that is the case, they must also be detained without conviction by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u46	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u47	It is the government's duty to its citizens. Stop playing games with the safety of our citizens. We really can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. In 2003, the Netherlands supported the war in Iraq, on the initiative of the United States, which had warned in the United Nations that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and was about to use them. Our own AIVD had no confirmation of the claims of the Americans and even questioned their operations, but our government decided to follow the Americans blindly. We know the results. Iraq was shot to pieces and Al-Qaeda and ISIS seized their chance. Terrorist movement IS even managed to create a so-called caliphate and brutally suppress its own citizens, and to commit bloody attacks in Brussels, Paris, London, Berlin, Copenhagen and Istanbul. It is incomprehensible that young people born and raised in the Netherlands opt for a barbaric ideology of deep hatred against everything we stand for: freedom, democracy, equality and emancipation. It is also incomprehensible how we have created a breeding ground for this kind of jihadism in the Netherlands. For decades, governments have not fought dangerous Salafists. Those who preach hatred and condone violence have been brought to the table and even received subsidies. Salafists in our country could secretly go their own way. In the General Political Reviews, not the last one, but the one before that, Emile Roemer and Halbe Zijlstra asked the government to publish a list of Salafist organizations as soon as possible. Minister Asscher has so far refused to carry out that request. I ask the new Minister of Justice if he will do so. In the military battle against ISIS, more and more victories are achieved, but this success also has a downside: Dutch people who went to fight in Iraq and Syria may return to our country. The AIVD shows that these are probably not regrets but military and ideologically hardened warriors, whether they be men, women or even children. This morning we were informed that out of the 50 jihad fighters who have returned to the Netherlands in recent years, about 15 are probably being prosecuted, that only 3 court cases have actually proved participation in the fight or training in the caliphate and that 40 out of 50 are still at large. Is that right? The SP wants people returning from Iraq or Syria and joining a terrorist organisation there to be included in a compulsory deradicalisation programme. In this way, we prevent people from putting themselves and society at risk. This way, customisation is also possible, because every returner is different again. People returning from Iraq or Syria will not report properly to the border, but will be smuggled through international networks. The best way to prevent this is better cooperation between the secret services in Europe. I know that the government has taken good initiatives in this respect. I also know how the AIVD works on this. Yet, after every bloody attack, we see that terrorists were known but not arrested. We always see the same networks that haven't been rolled up after all. Every time we see attackers travel across Europe without much difficulty, not rarely even through our country. We can't afford that anymore. That's gotta be over. We can no longer be satisfied with a government that says here in the Chamber that cooperation between the secret services is in order, when we have to read in the newspaper how it is not. I think that is also an important task for a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. The AIVD report we are discussing today gave a clear signal again. The number of returners from IS area may increase. These returners are probably more dangerous because they are more hardened in battle. The report again shows that the Netherlands is facing a terrorist threat. That is why it is a good thing that the Chamber is talking about this. It keeps people busy and, without causing unnecessary fear, it must also concern politics. D66 puts people's safety first, but we see little in tough language and measures that really don't work. In doing so, we always make a critical balance between what is effective in the fight against terror and what unnecessarily restricts the freedom and security of all citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Verhoeven does not see anything in tough language. I understand that he doesn't see anything about measures. But if the PVV were to win the elections, there would be a fence around Amsterdam and Amsterdam would separate itself. It'll be a People's Republic. That kind of tough language is spoken by a D66 alderman in Amsterdam. How does Mr Verhoeven deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u51	It's funny. I got a question about this last week. Then I replied that if there is a government led by the PVV, that will damage our rule of law and the fundamental rights of people and ensure that people are categorically excluded, D66 will not cooperate. That's how the alderman's remark should be seen. We do not want the fundamental rights of Dutch people to be violated. We do not want people, certain groups, to be categorically excluded. That's what the PVV wants. There's just a very clear difference of opinion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u52	A very important fundamental rule in the Netherlands on which many of our laws are built is: what you do not want to happen to you, don't do to another. If you're going to roar with the sight of or in the expectation of a victory of the PVV we still have to see of course that you have to separate Amsterdam, then you're going to work tough language as far as I'm concerned. Then you say things that can't. Mr Verhoeven is simply defending this. It's "on Democrats 66."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u53	First of all, I am not so scared. I believe that every day I am less afraid of an election victory by the PVV. I know that the PVV only does one thing, namely watching polls all day long. Those polls are going down, they're going down. I'm not so afraid of that. I repeat what I have just said: the PVV is a party that wants a number of things, including categorically excluding people and violating fundamental rights. D66's never gonna be a part of that. We are therefore making a critical balance between what is effective in the fight against terror and what restricts the freedom and security of citizens. First of all, for four years, D66 has been arguing for more capacity in crucial services, such as the Royal Marechaussee, the police, the detectives, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the AIVD. Some of these increased resources and additional capacity were eventually realised under pressure from the opposition. Secondly, D66 wants a mandatory exchange of information on terrorist suspects between Member States. I believe that I have said twenty times how important this measure is, because it works much better than the unfocused collection of data from all citizens. After all, in a large data mountain it is difficult to find. Last week we had a debate on this with the Minister for the Interior. Thirdly, D66 represents a good screening at Europe's external borders to keep out potential terrorists. D66 therefore does not run away from a European approach to this kind of problem, while most parties say that we should continue to regulate it at national level. No, D66 says that Europe must also have its external borders monitored. Unfortunately, because this screening is not yet waterproof, a thorough and rapid screening of asylum seekers in the Netherlands is also needed. Fourthly, the local approach to counter-terrorism is essential: prevention by adequate police officers and cooperation between schools, mosques, police and other local organisations to identify young people's radicalisation at an early stage and to prevent them from getting worse. Fifth, D66 has always said that you need to put the foundation in order before you make up all kinds of new measures, powers and laws. This means recording phone calls, reading mailboxes 24 hours a day and 7 days a week and giving good follow-up of notifications. Because as long as these basic aspects are not in order, new anti-terrorism measures deserve a critical look. I have some questions for the Cabinet regarding the report of the General Intelligence and Security Service. Firstly, as has already been said, future returners appear to be more dangerous. Does this mean the AIVD has to shadow more people 24/7? Can the AIVD handle this capacity? Secondly, I read that the cabinet is preparing a bill to criminalise residence in the field of terrorism. The Minister attaches some additional measures to this, such as extending the possibility of a DNA study.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u54	We are talking about 190 potential returners in this debate. They are classified by the security services as very dangerous. They may pose a major threat to the national security of the Netherlands. This cabinet has taken a pride in the measures that D66 has voted out of total conviction. I call the Computer Crime Act III. I refer to the Intelligence and Security Services Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u56	I call the Anti-Terrorism Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u57	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u58	I refer to the amendment of the Passport Act relating to the withdrawal of nationality. I would also like to mention a number of important motions on extending the provisional detention and the criminalisation of residence on terrorist territory which are being prepared today by the cabinet. How does D66 want to deal with these 190 returners? Because I fully support all the measures proposed by D66, such as screening of the EU's external borders, increased capacity and improved information exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u59	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u60	But that doesn't mean we're gonna stop those 190 returners from knocking on the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u61	There are a number of parties in this Chamber, let me summarize them as the "right-wing block," so PVV, CDA and VVD have figured out that there is only one way to tackle terrorism. These are often symbolic and tough-sounding measures which in reality are not working. Those parties constantly say to the other parties that are critical and propose other measures: you are in favour of terrorism, because you do not support our actions. That is why, in my speech, I have just indicated five ways in which D66 intends to combat terrorism. These measures must first be properly implemented, because none of them are now being implemented. This includes strengthening the external borders, giving more capacity to the AIVD and ensuring that radicalisation is detected more quickly at local level. These are all proposals which, as far as we are concerned, work much better than the four proposals that Mrs Tellegen just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u62	Those 190 extravagants are in the caliphate right now. They often have Dutch nationality. I'm gonna ask you a different question. Is D66 in favour of all 190 people simply returning and being welcomed again with open arms in this society? How will D66, which I also endorse, ensure in the short term that these people will not be able to return?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u63	This is a really weird way of reasoning. Mrs Van Toorenburg just did the same. Mrs Tellegen pretends that the Netherlands is going to organise some kind of celebration for the people who are returning, as if they are all receiving warm welcomes and we are going to give them a great time. If these people come back, they'll be arrested and tried. This is how it should go, instead of taking away the passport and saying that they can die there, as the Prime Minister also said. We believe that the rule of law should be maintained. This means that if people come here who have committed certain offences, they will be arrested and tried. It's as simple as that. This is how the rule of law works in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u64	I won't repeat this. I found the interruption brilliant and quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u65	Did you listen to the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u66	I also listened to the answer, and I found it rather embarrassing. Especially because we pretend to be one without the other. We agree that it has to be done, but D66 only takes one side. I'm still curious about something else. The Public Prosecutor's Office is now trying to gather evidence with all its power to ultimately get the terrorists convicted in absentia. I wonder how D66 looks at this. There's a lot of lawyers out there hoping for this. I think this is a smart move from the D.A.'s office and there's no other way. I wonder what D66 thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u67	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u68	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u69	Another bright spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u70	That is funny, because Mrs Van Toorenburg is always happy only with answers that correspond to her answers. It is a pity that, in a debate on such an important subject as this, we cannot disagree on how best to fight terrorism. There are 150 seats in this Chamber, this is no different before and after the elections, and all Members will want to fight terrorism. They all want to defend the safety of all Dutch. I think you should be able to debate the way you do that. That is why D66 has supported a number of cabinet proposals. That is why we think that the proposal of the Public Prosecutor's Office is a good idea. But that is why we do not think that a number of other proposals are a good idea. That's what we're gonna do. We are only concerned with one thing: effectiveness. Secondly, the maintenance of the rule of law. No wild-west behavior in the Netherlands, because we want to scare people with measures that don't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u71	Why such a...? Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u72	We are all in favour of the rule of law; the question is, of course, just how we defend it. I get a bit of a feeling that Mr Verhoeven's answer is that there are 190 Dutch terrorists sitting there for a long time and they are prepared to do everything we can to bring them back and then we will sort things out as if they have broken the Code of Criminal Law. As if someone stole a bike there you won't even be punished in the Netherlands for any other offence; you get half a year and you can go back into society. That's ridiculous! Surely we will have to do everything in our power to leave those 190 people there and never allow them to enter Dutch territory again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u73	They're people with a Dutch passport who are suspected of something. If they return, you will see in a rule of law what they have done, what they are suspected of, and then you will see to it that they get a trial and the punishment they deserve. That's how a rule of law works. That is quite different from the image that Mr Monasch is now sketching in the footsteps of the two ladies from CDA and VVD who pretend it is a celebration when these people come back here, that there are slings being put up and that it is all fantastic. Of course not, those people are treated as they should be treated, but according to the limits of the rule of law. We must not let go of the rule of law simply because we believe that these people should be treated differently from all the other people in the Netherlands who have done something wrong. We must ensure that we bring these people to justice properly if there is sufficient evidence. We have all these important services for that. The AIVD is doing the work to make sure those people are in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u74	Now Mr Verhoeven says again: we must not treat them differently than other people who have done something wrong. How can he compare this group with all kinds of other people who unfortunately violate the Code of Criminal Law? How can he compare them to someone who steals a bike? How can he put terrorists in Syria who are willing to rape women, put children into the fight and blow up entire cities, and say, "Well, they are also people who have done something wrong?" That's what he says, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr Monasch is pretending to compare them with people who stole a bicycle, but that is what Mr Monasch himself is doing. As far as the rule of law is concerned, everyone will be punished on the basis of suspicion, a case and a conviction. That's how the rule of law works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u76	I am glad that D66 is so keen on the rule of law. I've got a problem with that. Mr Verhoeven embraces the prosecutor's plans to condemn people without being present, unconditionally. I find that remarkable for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u78	You'd say someone should be able to defend themselves. It is subject to conditions and we are bound by the ECHR. Someone needs to get a fair trial. We don't want Kafka in the Netherlands. How's D66 on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u79	On the third page of my speech I come up with a number of questions about this plan, but we welcome the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office is actively trying to do as much as possible to protect the safety of Dutch people. We still have a number of questions, which I shall be asking in this way, because Mr Recourt's questions are perfectly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u81	Where was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yes, where were you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'm the only one who knows that. Oh, yeah, the DNA test. What exactly does the Minister mean by extending the DNA investigation? Who's it gonna apply to and what's the goal? In the new Intelligence and Security Services Act, we have already regulated the possibilities for DNA research for the AIVD and STIVD. Are they now being extended to police and justice? If so, on what grounds? Finally, I have a few questions about the intention of the Public Prosecutor to condemn extravagants by default. D66 is positive about that. It is a good thing that after the NCTV, the public prosecutor also turned away from Mr Rutte's earlier electoral rhetoric. He was not yet Prime Minister, but was the leader of the VVD when he said that jihadists could be better killed in Syria. Of course not, as it should be a rule of law: we just track down criminals and try them, as I said to Mr Monasch. D66 is therefore positive about the speed, but the question is how the prosecution provides sufficient evidence to be able to convict in case of contract documents. Is it possible to obtain sufficient evidence from IS territory? Is there also a view of the capacity of the D.A. to do this carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must not sit still in the fight against terrorism. All measures necessary and operating within the democratic rule of law should therefore be taken. Anyone who can help must be involved. The Labour Party fights terrorism, but not a belief. The Labour Party fights with the law and not the law. The Labour Party is fighting for a free and connected society, in which we prevent our young people from becoming tomorrow's terrorists. The fact that the Netherlands has so far escaped an attack must never lead to satisfaction and peace. We need to stay sharp and check again and again whether our defense is still in order, can't get a tooth sharper and whether we've really learned all the lessons from incidents at home and abroad. That is why it is a good thing that we are debating the most recent report by the AIVD here today, although that report does not in itself bring anything new. But when you figure it out, you see again that we should never underestimate the risk of returners. Fortunately, the authorities do not wait and neither does politics. Everything is being done to prevent people from travelling, such as taking their passports and a European arrest warrant. If one has left, a criminal record is already being built. This week, we've heard that the D.A.'s office is about to start prosecution by default. I have a question about that. The court has allowed it in a number of cases. What conditions has the court attached to this in the context of a fair trial? Just when interrupting, I said: Kafka is not what we want in the Netherlands either. The cabinet does a lot, both on the acute approach and on prevention. You could say: what do we worry about, because everything is under control? No, I'm afraid not. What am I missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u85	I have another interruption about the conviction in absentia. I share Mr Recourt's view that there are risks. He sums that up under Kafka. Does Mr Recourt also agree with me that it may be rather counterproductive in many cases, because perhaps you should have prepared a criminal record first and then go to trial here in the presence of the suspect instead of a conviction in absentia where someone will then be able to know the verdict and for that reason immediately dig into illegality or make other nefarious plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u86	Of course, the criminal record must be in order before a trial is started in absentia or in opposition. The fact that the D.A.'s office is now preparing all these files, I think it is very sensible, and I have great compliments for that. Then there are simply conditions under which you can condemn in absentia. If these conditions are met, then my party also thinks that this is a good idea, but we are concerned with GroenLinks about violating those conditions. There's a reasonable limit to it. In the end, it is extremely important that everyone who comes back should be checked whether these offences have been committed. We have seen in reports that this is in fact always the case, and that then the punishment that is necessary and that can be started immediately with deradicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u87	I think we are in complete agreement on the legal aspects. I was concerned with the pragmatic element that the effectiveness of prosecution can sometimes be hindered by a conviction in absentia. Does Mr Recourt share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u88	The moment it does, I share it. I shall come back to this later in my speech, namely that we should look at it pragmatically and let the aspect of ideology stand in the way of this. We have to do what works to make the Netherlands safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u89	The PvdA Group in the First Chamber voted against the law on administrative measures to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u90	For the record, I know that she voted against including the possibility of depriving Dutch nationality, but I thought that she voted in favour of the package of administrative measures, I am now saying out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u91	Then I'm gonna go check that out. If Mr Recourt is right, I will of course come to apologize to him, otherwise I will ask him some critical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u92	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u93	I have just heard Mr Recourt of the Labour Party say: we have to do what works. However, the AIVD report shows that all the measures that have been taken and which still have to be taken are not working at all, as people are still coming back; moreover, there are still tens of thousands who will be able to cross the Mediterranean and come to us. So it doesn't work. Security is also one of the fundamental rights of Dutch people. Then why does the PvdA want those Dutch not to be for their sake and say: we are going to re-introduce border controls so that we know we are coming in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u94	We agree that the Netherlands should be made as safe as possible, as far as it is not. For the rest, we really disagree radically. I have said that the Labour Party is fighting with everyone against terrorism, including the Muslim community, which is often a victim of it itself. We propose realistic measures and not unrealistic measures by saying: put a fence around the Netherlands and then all our problems are solved and then it is safe. It doesn't work. What we are doing is looking very intensively for what works and what is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u95	I believe that the Labour Party has lost another seat or three with this text by Mr Recourt. We must do what is effective to make the Netherlands safer. Then one of the measures you can take is checking people at the border. It's very simple. Then you know who's coming in. Then you have a lot of people inside, of course, but we all have to work on that; we agree on that. But why make the Netherlands still more unsafe by letting people come in from whom you know they're just in a bad mood in the Netherlands? And then I'm gonna say it very neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u96	Of course, there shouldn't be any people coming in who have terrorist plans. People are also controlled at the border. The Netherlands is in the Schengen area in which we closely control the external borders. What we do not want is to lift Schengen with false measures, because that way you will not make the Netherlands safer, unless you, Mr Trump, are going to build a huge fence, but even of that we know from the occupied territories that you can just go under.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u97	Of course, I agree with Mr Recourt that it is extremely strange that the PVV is saying 'close borders' all the time, but right behind it says: we do not want a fence around the Netherlands. I wonder, then, how do these borders close? I must also apologize to Mr Recourt. Indeed, it is not the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, but it is the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The question remains as to how to indicate the progressive understanding of the PvdA Group in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u98	It's not a moving insight. The political groups in the First Chamber and the Second Chamber sometimes vote differently, not excluding D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u99	Agreed. Mr Recourt is right, but the First Chamber always calls itself the chambre de réflexion, the Chamber that looks at the sustainability, strength and effectiveness of legislation. The First Parliamentary Group of the Labour Party does not seem to consider this to be an effective and sustainable solution. How does Mr Recourt view his group in the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u100	In the House of Representatives we made a different assessment. That's how our Dutch democracy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u101	Will Mr Recourt say something about this? It is about effectiveness and the rule of law. That is what this debate is about. I am perfectly entitled to ask what the House of Representatives thinks of measures which may not be effective and which harm the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u102	We have had an extensive debate on this. We have said that we found it difficult to balance this particular issue, but we have made the point of voting in favour, provided that it is limited and used only in extreme need. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has just changed their minds. What are we worried about? You might think so, but there is enough to worry us about, for example about the reception of returners. The sooner the returners are in the image and in the grip of the Dutch authorities, the better. In some cases, AIVD and justice already have a view on it before anyone comes to the Netherlands. It would be a good thing if someone crossing the border of Syria or Iraq came straight into the picture. I believe that the Dutch embassies, the Dutch government, have a role to play in this. Let us put safety and practical action first. You do this by getting a picture of the returnees as soon as possible, by ensuring that they do not stay invisible in the Netherlands, by immediately prosecuting them and by immediately looking at what information they can give us. That's practical. A lot of legislation has been adopted recently that can help to thwart out-of-travelers. Less has been done to strengthen the approach of returners here in the Netherlands. I would point, with others, to the Segers/Samsom motion in order to extend the duration of pre-trial detention in terrorist offences. Where's the bill? Finally, those who remain at home. Today's Jihadists should not serve as an example for tomorrow's. Especially with families who are known to have travelled to ISIS, we should not wait until brothers or sisters may also radicalise and travel. Mr Marcouch has already called for opportunities to look behind the front door in these families: just meddling and not letting it happen. The pilot with a jihadist intervention team had failed in the first instance, it seemed, because there would be an embarrassment of action. We do not agree with that. Concrete signals of jihadism, such as well-known cases of Syrian warriors or attempts to travel away, are indeed key points for looking behind the front door. It should certainly be a reason to always correct or educate those who remain behind. In December, a new Marcouch motion was tabled, asking once again to ensure that professionals still have knowledge, courage and powers to look behind the front door of families to provide help and prevent other family members from radicalising as well. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u103	As Mr Recourt is heading towards the end of his speech, I note that in his story I completely miss the remark made by the mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb. He said: you must do everything you can to prevent them from returning to the Netherlands. I only hear Mr Recourt talking about returning, facilitating and taking a course in the municipality, but not about the starting point of a very important mayor in the Netherlands, who knows quite well what is going on in the cities and who can judge that well because of his background. He says we have to make sure they stay there. Why do I not hear Mr Recourt about this and is he only engaged in the admission of dangerous Syrians in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u104	My whole argument was based on being realistic and not sticking to rhetoric and ideals, because you know that people will always return, no matter what policy you pursue. We've heard there's about 190 outbounds. We know that not all 190 will return. It'll be part of it. We have passed a law that allows you to deprive them of their nationality and declare them undesirable. That's why they can't come back. The PvdA has supported this, but we are realistic enough to realise that people will still be coming back. You have to do something for that and you can't at least say: because I was so ideological on the other side, I'm going to sit on my hands now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr Recourt leaves it to the voluntary nature of terrorists and Syrians whether they still want to come to the Netherlands, yes or no. The mayor of Rotterdam turns it around and just says: we don't want them here anymore. Why isn't that the red line in your speech and you're just looking at how we can facilitate the return so that after a year of prison, completely brainwashed in Syria, they can just go back on the Dutch streets, even in Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u106	I keep repeating that this is nice rhetoric, but that you make the Netherlands more unsafe if you don't do something for people who return anyway. We do not want everyone to return, but we realize that will happen. And so we also realise that we need to get our measures in order and not put our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u107	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of a shocking sadness it is by the way that ISIS also employs young children. Can the Minister tell us how we're going to detox these children? Terrorism you fight and prevent by connecting anyone who can help, by doing what is necessary, by doing what works and by leaving ideology with the terrorists. Ministers, please continue!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. The AIVD rightly warns of returners from terrorist territory. Travelling jihad-goers returning can be an extraordinary danger to our society. So we have to take this very seriously. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, too, we will have to develop very specific and effective policies with each other. In addition, the "good news" is that in any case our AIVD knows the necessary from this group. This is evident from the report that has been sent to us. The AIVD knows about how many people we're talking about and how many men, women and children we're talking about. I can therefore assume that there is a certain amount of file formation behind it. That is good, because it enables targeted research to be carried out and that targeted research is very important. My group therefore explicitly supports what was written in the cabinet letter about the start of a criminal investigation in Syria and Iraq in the event of their absence and residence. It cannot be emphasised enough that the more solid the dossier that is being built, the clearer and more solid and legitimate a good condemnation can take place in the Netherlands. In doing so, my group has serious doubts about the option of sentencing in absentia. Mr Recourt has made an excellent statement on the matters of principle. I share those views, but it also seems to me that I would like to get a reaction from the rulers to a large extent counterproductive. It is precisely if someone is in the picture and therefore there can be a condemnation that my group would say: we would rather have him locked up here than perhaps by default cause the person not to report here at all but, of course, to continue to exist and will continue to be a specific danger to the Netherlands in the field of illegality. The reduction of nationality has been discussed in detail earlier. In my group's view, this is highly undesirable, also in view of the effectiveness of the prosecution. That is precisely the strange misunderstanding with the ideologically motivated comments that I hear from VVD, CDA and PVV. It is, of course, a question of taking away a person's nationality, but that does not change the person. It is still someone who apparently has ties with the Netherlands, who comes from here, who has family here, who is in contact with a group, who speaks the language and who could therefore be a danger to the Netherlands and the Dutch. The dumbest thing you can do is think that you can keep them out of the door and that they won't come into the Netherlands. These people are highly willing and able to enter the Netherlands. Then I'd rather have them in my sights. I'd rather make sure they're brought to justice right here. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u110	I fully agree with Mr Grashoff's analysis. I'm just gonna come back to judgment in absentia by the D.A.'s office. If the DA can find enough evidence to do that, how does GroenLinks look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u111	I can imagine that, in a most exceptional case, a conviction by default can be useful, but especially if the chances of return are very small or not present. I can't exactly remember those cases, but they will exist. We also do not want to rule out the possibility of this happening at some point. However, this is not our preferred option at all on both fundamental and pragmatic grounds. You would warn someone very easily that he is in sharp focus with us and that there is a concrete charge that could lead to a conviction. Then I'd rather have him escorted to the border by the marshalssee. That's not guidance for his or her safety, but for our safety. Then someone here can be taken directly into custody and there can be a trial in no time. In any case, perpetrators of sometimes gruesome crimes against humanity must not escape their rightful punishment. That's what it's all about. That is a very different debate from that on towed nets and the like. This is a specific group. We know in general who we are talking about and we can investigate it. Soon the Minister will be given the power to withdraw Dutch nationality. That does not alter the fact that the cabinet does not have to use that power. In the light of the analysis I have just given, I would like to reiterate to the Ministers the extent to which they intend to make use of it now or to keep their heads cool and adopt the most effective approach possible, that is to say, to try here. We must ensure that the Dutch approach does not only feed feelings of exclusion and discrimination. This can be done if we only talk about the condemnation of jihadgoers, which we absolutely must do, but pay too little attention to the feelings of discrimination in the Netherlands. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau reports that migrants increasingly do not feel at home in the Netherlands, are less positive about their opportunities in the Netherlands and increasingly experience discrimination. No matter how you turn or turn it, that is and remains extremely important not to give the deeper breeding grounds for jihadism any chance in the Netherlands either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr Monasch, a brief question. It's not unlimited interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u113	I understand that, but purely because of this last remark I have a question. Should I understand that Mr Grashoff thinks that Syrians should be treated less harshly because otherwise we should be afraid that we are creating feelings of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u114	That is a good question, because that is absolutely not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then it's okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u116	I am particularly concerned about the way in which we deal with our citizens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u117	I understand that the transfer of the GroenLinks programme shows that all short prison sentences no longer need to be implemented. If you have received a month's imprisonment, you must have done a lot in the Netherlands to get a month's imprisonment. Does this also apply to people who have somehow been involved in terror?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u118	If someone has been seriously involved in terrorism, then there must be charges in the sphere of murder, manslaughter and excessive violence. We are talking about a very different category of crime. Then it's not a short sentence, it's a very serious matter. I hope and expect these people in the Dutch rule of law to be put behind bars for some years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u119	I wish. Unfortunately, the figures show something else. That is why I think my question is right. Some even get away with community service if they have had certain ties. Unfortunately, that is the reality. I would like to hear the following from GroenLinks explicitly today. GroenLinks doesn't want to serve a month in prison at all. It's a pretty bizarre proposal when you're talking about the rule of law, but okay. I would now like to hear from GroenLinks that at least this does not apply to anyone who has had anything to do with terrorism in any way. Does GroenLinks say that explicitly today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u120	You can't say that at all. Of course, I am not going to make such a rabid commitment. What matters is that you can only determine on a case-by-case basis what the actual crime is, what the penalty is and what goes with it. That's how you're gonna look at it. By the way, it is not the case that GroenLinks is proposing to dismiss people from criminal proceedings. We are therefore talking about alternative penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u121	It is clear that a number of parties in this Chamber want to deal differently with those 190 jihadists. I hear D66, but also GroenLinks say that they actually prefer that all 190 return, because then we have them in view. That she so, the VVD prefers that they do not return all 190. But when they return, the DA does indeed do a good job, because it proactively builds up their files. Of course, the VVD is also in favour of this. However, does Mr Grashoff realise that the construction of these files is often done via the Internet and that the evidence against these jihadists is often collected via the Internet? Does he realise that the new Intelligence and Security Services Act can play a crucial role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u122	The extension of powers does not play such an important role here, because it concerns people against whom there is a specific suspicion. Of course, information on this can be obtained. I think that's a really different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u123	That discussion was also held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u124	That debate has indeed been held. However, what matters to me is that if we want to build files, the public prosecutor must have all the powers and possibilities to access encrypted information as well. These jihadists often communicate encrypted by cable. In what way does Mr Grashoff think that the D.A. can get to that information if so much encrypted information is sent that we otherwise cannot access? I would therefore like to ask the Minister through Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u125	There is already ample power to investigate and obtain information if there are concrete suspicions. In this respect, the law provides an excellent instrument box. Now let's go use it properly. Of course, there are elements such as capacity, availability and so on. Of course, we have also had discussions with each other about previous cuts by this cabinet at the AIVD. GroenLinks didn't do that, the cabinet did. We shouldn't be cutting back on the AIVD. After all, we need these services very badly and we need that detective capacity. I agree with everyone who says: it would be too crazy for words if we could spend insufficient research capacity on these matters. That's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. The AIVD's report on the return of Syrians was as shocking as predictable. They stay there longer, they are more indoctrinated and they are capable of even more severe terrorist attacks. When you read the letter from the cabinet, you notice that there is one verb central to it, namely the verb "return." Returning, returning; I only underlined all those words "returning" and I just lost count. However, nowhere have I found the words'stay there'. Why is the policy in this letter not aimed at "staying there" instead of "returning back"? Is it not better for the safety of the Netherlands simply to ban returners from Syria and Iraq? Look at all the attacks and look at the holy war that is supposed to continue here. Should we not consider the possibility of depriving people of Dutch nationality who have committed foreign acts of terrorism, such as the entry into service of a foreign military force? This brings me to my final question. Go back or stay there? Does the government think that it has done enough in recent years to leave Syrians there? Now we only receive a letter that suffices with the verb "return."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u127	Now I am so curious what Mr Monasch means by "there." Where's that "there"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u128	Maybe Mr Grashoff has problems with that positioning, but we can work that out. If he agrees with me that they'll stay there, too, we can do business with each other. When it comes to this question from GroenLinks, about that "there" some coordinates, I would say: let's just do that and, after consulting the AIVD, let's see what coordinates they are. Let us then opt for policies that allow them to stay there instead of returning. When they return, GroenLinks will give them community service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u129	I've rarely heard a more absurd answer. Mr Monasch knows exactly what I mean: we do not know where 'there' is. That could be anywhere. If I understand Mr Monasch correctly, if not, I am sure he can contradict me. That is the consequence of Mr Monasch's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u130	I have had a few debates with Mr Grashoff over the last few months, and I notice that every time he doesn't like it, he accuses his opponent of nonsensical answers. That's really sharpness and impact; it's always nonsensical. Let's try to have a proper debate with each other. I do not agree with him, he does not agree with me, but let us set an example and stop calling things nonsense all the time. That is my appeal to Mr Grashoff. We know very well where people are. Otherwise, we would not be able to judge them by default, which is also stated in the AIVD report. If we know exactly where people are, even people who are trapped in organisations in Syria that cannot return at the moment, they can be identified. We've got these 190 people on the line. Then we'll make sure they stay there and don't come back. That must be the aim of the whole policy. That policy is fully focused on returning, rather than staying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u131	I can only conclude that Mr Monasch believes that we apparently have jurisdiction around the world to determine where someone is staying. But we don't have that jurisdiction! We have jurisdiction within the borders of the Netherlands. We can convict and try someone here, but we can't do that in another place. If someone's really in jail somewhere, he's not coming back. Mr Monasch knows that too. Why this ideologically driven approach, rather than a very sharp, pragmatic and effective approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-7.u133	It is extremely strange that a representative of the party of the Kunduz agreement, which decided to deploy troops in another country, says that there is no jurisdiction over that. We are constantly intervening there. That would not have been my choice, but Mr Grashoff is constantly supporting all kinds of missions. Then all of a sudden, he's got jurisdiction. Now it is terrorists who return to the Netherlands, and he says: I am not about that, let me bring them here.
