ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u1	Now let's ask about the last show. This is from Mr Omtzigt to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This year, more than 200,000 cars are likely to be imported into the Netherlands. So almost a third of the cars that are new on the road in the Netherlands are first taken from abroad. These cars will then be introduced either after an inspection, or with an assessment report, or after the car has been valued via a table. We've been asking for those figures for a long time, and they're now becoming clear to all intents and purposes. My first question would be: how many are there now? That may sound strange, but we actually expected to get the half-yearly report yesterday, with the exact figures. Those figures would also include, for example, the number of rulings exchanged. Those are interesting things the Chamber is asking for. In short, when can we know how many there are? I told you, 200,000 imported cars. RTL News revealed what we suspected for a long time: that a number of people with some kind of fake damage manage to reduce the price enormously, causing the state to miss out on substantial bpm revenues. That doesn't apply to everyone, by the way. If you find a nice car abroad, just happens to be the old timer you always wanted, that's fine. And that lost money may be coughed up by the rest of the Netherlands. Other than that, the system seems to be getting a little leaky. The judge has ruled that if you buy a new car in Hungary and drive that car to the Netherlands, the car at the Dutch border is already used. So you don't even have to pay off part of the bpm when you arrive at the Dutch border. Mr. Chairman. What is this Secretary of State going to do to stop the practices of that fake damage that the State misses heavily bpm revenue? In what time can we see measures? I ask this question because we have been asking questions about this for a year or two. Already at the Autoletter in 2015 we talked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Omtzigt for the questions. Indeed, more and more cars appear on the Dutch roads through parallel imports. We do not yet have the exact figures for this year, because that year is not yet over, but it seems that it will indeed be more than 200,000 cars. If you compare that with the total number of cars driving on the Dutch road, that's what my predecessor called more than the natural volume of trade you would normally expect. In short, something's going on. It is in itself good to point out that parallel imports will always be there. There is. It is a European market. There are all kinds of reasons to do it. But when a car from abroad becomes the reason for a car to be imported, it is of course not a good thing. We find that undesirable, too. Let that be clear. We are seeing this sharp increase. I have already said in the legislative consultation that it is a rather complex matter. That's often the problem. There are all kinds of European rules. People also have a right to retain the real value of their car when they have to pay taxes on it. We'll do it through some kind of three-stage missile. If it's a simple car, you just have a table for that. If things get a little more complicated, you'll have a price list for that. And if it gets really complicated, like damage, then you can go to an appraisal report. The number of appraisals we have seen in recent years is also increasing, so I think that is simply right and that we would also like to do something about it. It was also suggested that this would lead to a significant budgetary loss for the Treasury. That point is a little more complicated to make. First of all, it is good to look at the numbers we have, for example from 2016. Then you see that 49.000 cars were imported through the parallel market, of which the total bpm revenues were 68 million. So you can suggest that maybe some values are lower than would otherwise have been established, so part of 68 million would have been wrongly unpaid. I am just saying this because the orders of magnitude that were sometimes discussed in an earlier debate may have got a little out of hand. I do not want to trivialize it, because it is still important amounts that we would like to collect. The second complicated thing with these kinds of issues always occurs when you want to windows. It's called counteractual evidence in English. How many would have entered if reality were different from what it is now? You never know. Would someone have imported that car if there was no bpm difference? You can guess that. That's a behavioral effect, but it's very hard to really capture it. So it's almost always impossible for us as rams to give a direct answer to that. The most important thing, I think, is that in practice we see that a kind of business model has been created in which people import damage cars and then repair them quickly. That is a valid point that we would like to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u5	A business model for importing damage cars to save more than 10 million dollars on the bpm, with now heading towards the 50,000 damage cars that are imported. I do not think there is such a large normal market to import damage cars from Germany or Poland to sell them in the Netherlands. That is not a natural market, that is an artifact that exists because you can cheat with the inspection. My estimate is that you have to win many hundreds of euros per car, because you don't import such a car and you don't drag it all the way from A to B for a couple of tens. So that damage will be pretty big. When exactly can we expect further measures to ensure that 49 000 damage cars are not imported but perhaps up to 1,000 or 2,000 cars accidentally scratched? Because it can't be a normal market to let this go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u6	In fact, I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt's statement. We do not want that either, if only because I just said that the natural volume of trade has really been exceeded. We can see that, too. What else would you expect? In short, it is more than you really want, especially if you know that the trick with the damage also makes it very attractive. Mr Omtzigt gave the example, I believe, during the legislative consultation of a door that is being removed and an old door that is then hung in. That car gets valued as a damage car, and there's gonna be a low bpm price. That car goes into the Netherlands, another van comes with the right door and that good door goes back in. That is, of course, undesirable and not the intention. Once again, there are also rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union that if you do this, the tax must still be based on the old price. That is a really nasty statement for us as regulators on this point. But we think the problem is so important to deal with that that we are going to investigate. When are we gonna do that? That's what I said. We're going to do this with a letter about parallel imports in general. It's about damage, but it could also be about VAT issues. We all want to take these elements together in a letter that we will send to your Chamber in the spring, so that we may then be able to talk a little more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u8	I understand that a new Secretary of State with hundreds of thousands of things around the IRS can't write a letter within a week, so I understand it's coming in spring. But can I assume that when that letter comes in early spring, because spring will end here on 21 June, just before the summer recess, it will be accompanied by a number of proposals for measures to reverse this business model? So that everyone simply pays their fair share to the bpm and it is not the case that some people can avoid the tax via a damage car and the rest of the Netherlands actually have to make up for that tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think I'd like to thank Mr Omtzig...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u10	I said "Mr. Snel," but I meant "the Secretary of State," I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u11	...will promise that I will not wait until June 21st, the longest possible spring. I am also in a hurry, also from the point of view of compliance, but I do not want to come forward with proposals that may not work entirely afterwards. I promise to keep the speed absolutely in. I also promise that, of course, in the letter, I will also look at the directions of solution that we think we can use and use, on which we can then discuss further with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and Mr Omtzigt. That also brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
