ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that of course you never know when you will submit your last motion to the House of Representatives. It may well be that this is my last motion. This is, in my view, a very important motion. I have been spokesperson in the field of security and justice for about six and a half years now. I have also always had the subject of sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church and its settlement in my portfolio. It is a subject that concerns me very much. Mrs Arib, who is now President of the House of Representatives, and I have visited several victim meetings together. This also applies to many more Members. I know that the current minister has been there. They're always very poignant meetings. I'm filing a motion that is not addressed to the government, but to the Chamber. This motion is about a parliamentary inquiry which I believe must always be carried out, even if only because there has been insufficient research into the role of the government, in response to and in preventing sexual abuse in the church. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no investigation has been carried out into the role and responsibility of the government in preventing and tackling sexual abuse within the Roman Catholic Church;]] [[Considers that it is also important to examine in detail whether, at the time of and shortly after the abuse, signs of abuse and very serious abuse were known to the government, the House of Representatives, the top of the official organisation and other political or non-political bodies and, if so, how this knowledge was handled at the time;]] [[declares that this examination is carried out at the level of a parliamentary inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VI-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mrs Gesthuizen said that this is a subject that has unraveled a lot. I've taken over Mrs. Arib's spokesmanship. Mrs Gesthuizen and I have fought together on this dossier over the past few years and have seen all the investigations. I would like to know from her how she sees the risk that a parliamentary inquiry will cause a great deal of pain. That is also a signal we hear from victims. That signal is also very clearly indicated by the Deetman Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u3	That's a signal that I'm picking up far less than the signal "we'd like the bottom stone to come up." To be honest, I do not think that is an appropriate argument. I'm just saying it in my own words, without attacking you, Mrs Volp. If people do not want to be heard by a parliamentary committee, or if they find this too painful as a victim, that can of course always be taken into account when it comes to victims. I think it is more than right that other parties involved, be they perpetrators or those who have had knowledge of the actions, should appear before a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I would like to remind the Labour Party that it itself once tabled a similar motion. I would also like to remind you that Mrs Arib really insisted on having the initiative in this. I would be very disappointed if the Labour Party were to deviate from its previous position a few years later, while in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mrs Volp, briefly, because we are not going to repeat the debate that probably has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u5	I would like to point out that we are indeed a number of years ahead. I understand Mrs Gesthuizen's position. I also believe that we are not attacking each other on this, precisely because we have always been closely involved in this. The struggle with the question in the interest of who the investigation is is great. We have also discussed the possibilities for research into patterns before. Would Mrs Gesthuizen see added value in naming the patterns that lead to such abuse of power in closed organisations, among other things, resulting in sexual abuse? We also discussed football clubs in the last AO and the problems we are now seeing in England.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u6	I do not, of course, formulate the research question. That is ultimately up to the Chamber itself. If Mrs Volp believes that we would do wisely to investigate far more than the abuse within the Roman Catholic Church, I am not even able to lie down for that. But I'd be the last one to do that. I hope that Mrs Volp is satisfied with this answer, otherwise I am happy to hear it. I would like to make two final comments. If I do not think that a colleague takes the view that I believe is the right position, I will certainly appeal to him. That doesn't have to be called an attack; it's a way of speaking. I think we should never let that go, no matter how painful the subject in the Chamber may be. Finally, I am aware that there has been some investigation, including into the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. In any case, in the first investigation, into the Public Prosecutor's Office, it was certainly also found in brackets which could be used in a further investigation into the role of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have exchanged in the last AO that some members have seen the film Spotlight and have seen how journalism research has led to a whole follow-up investigation. In recent years, after taking over Mrs Arib's spokespersonship, we in the committee have also carefully raised very difficult points and asked for further investigations. I think the ruler has always worked well in this. After the last general consultation, a number of parties still have concerns about the following. How do we know what is kept and where? This is of the utmost importance if we are to learn and prevent similar abuse in the future. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the records are kept in the file of sexual abuse in the Catholic Church and should be accessible for inspection by scientific research;]] [[having regard to the concern expressed by fellow-fate organisations about the intention of the former Deetman Committee and Mr Deetman not to cooperate with the National Archives for archiving;]] [[whereas archiving should be transparent and in accordance with the privacy laws and regulations, and that the interests of the victims should be respected;]] [[invites the Government, the Foundation and Mr Deetman to consider choosing the National Archives as the location for the intended archives, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of the conversation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Volp, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VI-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u8	I would like to agree that access to such an archive for scientific research should be central, first and foremost for victims, in order to be able to investigate this suffering. My question is simply: does Mrs Volp want to explain why it should be the National Archives? Could another archive be appropriate to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u9	I am responding, on behalf of a number of fellow speakers, to the explicit desire of victims. Once again, we want the Minister to talk again to the Deetman Committee to examine this possibility; the motion was formulated as well. If this discussion shows that there are serious reasons why we should not choose to do so, we would like to know, as was also included in the operative part of the motion, what alternatives there may be. With the motion, however, we agree as much as possible with the explicit wish of the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u10	I see that Mrs Gesthuizen would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u11	My question to Mrs Volp is, of course, what she will advise her group on the motion I have just tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u12	We have another meeting. This is a subject that will be discussed internally. I will let you know before Tuesday what my group's opinion is on this, Mrs Gesthuizen. I do think it is important to say that this is something where we should not refer too easily to a position taken a few years ago. There has been an enormous amount of research. You referred to that yourself. There has been a whole process around victims, about recognition, processing and doing justice to the suffering that has been done to them. So I have to discuss this in my group. That's what I can promise Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u13	I would like to say to Mrs Volp that we are talking about situations 30, 40 or 50 years ago anyway. I find it difficult to digest, I say that very honestly, that in such a short time a turn of 180 degrees would be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u14	I do not think that this is right for the care with which we have had this debate all these years. I value the judgment of my group. It's a careful process. That is what we have been doing in recent years. I will discuss this in my group. I don't think it's neat that it's called a 180-degree turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u15	We are not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u16	I want to make a point of order. I am really uncomfortable with the fact that every time I talk to you about responsibilities, which is also my job, and confront a position you have taken earlier, you put me right in the shoes that I am not a decent person. I am debating with you, Mrs Volp. That's what I get paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u17	I would like to explain to Mrs Gesthuizen that, in the course of time, a position based on progressive insight and all that has happened is not acceptable to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u18	Please continue. Mrs Van Toorenburg also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u19	We have indeed done a very good job with the PvdA and other parties in order to get as much information as possible on this very terrible dossier. I would just like to ask Mrs Volp if she really feels that if she thinks about this now, then I doubt very much that we are actually serving the victims with another investigation. We wonder what that means to these victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u20	As I have just said, we have also received signals that victims indicate that they do not benefit from this. We have heard the Deetman Committee's opinion and we will hear the Minister's reaction to Mrs Gesthuizen's motion. I would also like to discuss this with my group. I believe that we should act very carefully at this stage and indeed take into account that we have been a number of years ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u21	This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. The Minister will only have to respond to the second motion in a moment. The first concerns only the Chamber: whether or not it is a parliamentary inquiry. The minister's asking for a minute. Then we'll wait and he'll come back and answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u22	The Minister is able to respond to the motion in part No. 97. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. Before I respond to the motion in part No. I would like to make a brief introductory remark. Let us say first of all that I think that this dossier has been dealt with very carefully in the Chamber in recent years. The events that have taken place in and around the Catholic Church over a long period of time have shocked the Chamber, but also society. The suffering caused by the victims is inconceivable and continues to spread to the present day in the presence of many victims. My predecessor and, from my arrival, I have always drawn up a good relationship with the Chamber on this point, in the interests of the victims. There has been no discussion of what the importance or the background should be. The importance of the victims was central. In this plenary debate, I would like to express my appreciation for the victims' organisations, which have played such an important role in this. I see representatives of the VPKK sitting in the public gallery; let me mention that organisation first. In addition, there is of course the dome, KLOKK, and Mea Culpa United. They have been instrumental in doing justice, albeit far too late, and have never been enough for many people for the terrible suffering they have suffered in those years, especially in the many cases in which they were young. That's what I wanted to say. I also said in the AO that I think at the same time that the Roman Catholic Church has shown in recent years that it is sometimes reluctant, but sometimes surprisingly quick to take responsibility, not only for the past but certainly for the future. In that context, I would like to draw attention to the letter sent by Pope Francis just before Christmas. In this, he explicitly stated that it is important, even within the Catholic Church, that there is a policy of zero tolerance in relation to sexual abuse within the Catholic Church. I think that is an important signal, on top of a number of previous signals, which make it very clear that the standard is being set where many Members of Parliament think it should have been for a very long time. In dealing with the whole dossier, doing research has been of great importance. It began with the investigation into the sexual abuse by the Deetman Committee. A study on violence against women and girls was followed in response to the comments made by the PKK. There's been an investigation into castrations. There was an investigation into the way the police handled this at the time. There's been an investigation into the state's attorney's office. I can also speak from my own experience: if, in my view, a research object would have been worth researching, then I would have applied for it myself as a Member of Parliament, without a doubt, with many of the colleagues I see sitting here. That is all I want to say, because the motion in part No. Mrs Gesthuizen's 96 is entirely at the Chamber. If this were Mrs Gesthuizen's last motion, I would like to congratulate her and thank her for her commitment to this dossier. It's always been from her heart. It has always placed the importance of victims at the centre. So if this were her last motion, I'd be happy to pass on that compliment. Furthermore, I think, knowing Mrs Gesthuizen, that there will be a motion in the coming weeks, but at least I have said what I personally found of the cooperation with Mrs Gesthuizen on this dossier. I also know that the victim organisations have greatly appreciated her commitment in recent years. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 97 by Mrs Volp, co-signed by Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Gesthuizen. In the motion, the government is asked to give consideration to the foundation and Mr Deetman to opt for the National Archives as the location for the intended archives and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of that conversation. I have indicated in the AO, for the sake of completeness, that I, as a minister, ultimately have no control over the destination of private archives. The transfer of a private archive to the National Archives is by agreement and on a voluntary basis. The parties will therefore have to agree on this together. Both the Deetman Committee and the National Archives should find a balance in the interests of the victims between giving access to these sensitive data for scientific research and, of course, the protection of the privacy of the many persons involved, some of whom, as is known here, have been involved in the investigation and have provided information, but have not, for example, made it known to their own family. This interest will always have to be taken into account, in any form of regulation. I'll give you that advice. I know that there has been a discussion between Mr Deetman, the former committee and the foundation set up with a view to archiving and the National Archives. I have heard very well that the victim organisations have also said: we would appreciate it if it were placed in the National Archives, so that it is safe there, it is stable and we are sure that it will not ever come to an end. I would be happy to enter into the discussion with Mr Deetman should the House adopt this motion. I would also be happy to inform the Chamber of its outcome. I am prepared to allow this discussion to take place only after Mr Deetman has spoken to the victim organisations. I understand the call was made. It's possible that the concerns in that conversation will be removed. If so, I think it is important to include this in the discussion that I will then have with Mr Deetman. Perhaps that will depend on what I hear from the victims' organisations. So I think it is very important that the archives remain available. I know that this is also the starting point of Mr Deetman, the former committee and the foundation that was set up. If the Chamber adopts the motion, I would be happy to enter into the discussion with Mr Deetman, with the non-binding nature attached to it. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-11.u24	This brings us to the end of this VAO. The votes on both motions will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister for their input.
