ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen as the first speaker. The speaking time per group is exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The public authorities shall take measures to promote public health. I read this when I look at the first sentence of Article 22 in the Constitution. "My name is Sanne and I'm 36 years old. I worked as a teacher but became a kidney patient and unfortunately can no longer work at this time and need a lot of medicine. Today my pharmacy called to tell me that my medication is ready for the next three months and that I can pick it up. However, suddenly I have to pay €150 every three months for my medicines. So this is €600 per year. This doesn't feel fair. I already pay, like everyone who is sick, my own risk of €385? Because I need additional insurance because of my illness, I also have a high premium. Another $600 a year I just can't afford. It makes me insecure, angry and sad." This is what I read when I open my mailbox this morning and check my first e-mail. The public authorities shall take measures to promote public health. I wonder how I can reconcile the story of Sanne and all the other Sannes who do their story to us every day with our Constitution. In today's debate we are talking about care avoiders, but in fact I think this is a bit of a strange term, because often these people do not want to avoid their concerns at all. In fact, they need that kind of care. They do want to avoid the costs or even sometimes the debts associated with this concern. Our Secretary of State said in Buitenhof in September: "I think we should seriously look at our own risk. People who are chronically ill cannot avoid the risk." With this, the Secretary of State is gonna hit the nail on the head as far as we're concerned. Getting sick and therefore needing care is not a choice. If we could choose, we would all prefer to be healthy and not need care. The letter from the cabinet of 3 November states: "The own risk promotes that people do not use care unnecessarily." But is this true? After all, being sick is not a choice. In addition, the term "brake money," like our southern neighbors in Belgium use, does not apply at all to us in the opinion of the SP. We do not know, as in Belgium, a risk of our own to the general practitioner. In our system, isn't it the general practitioner who decides whether you need extra care, medication or, for example, that lung photo in the hospital? I assume that everyone in this Chamber trusts our general practitioners as a care professional. The assessment of whether or not someone needs care should be theirs and not ours. That our party wants to be sick, let us be clear. We are therefore very pleased that, in the last election campaign, quite a few parties found this to be the case. We hope that today we can count on those parties as well. The thickness of your wallet should never determine in our country if you get the care you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Loes is a doctor in training. She's 28 years old, almost graduated and she had a stomachache last summer and was in dubio: am I going to the hospital as the GP suggested or should I look at it? Loes has a high pain limit but eventually the pain turned out to be too intense and decided to follow the advice. She was found to have appendicitis and had acute surgery. She was happy that she really had something wrong because otherwise her own risk would have been addressed for nothing and that's a rib out of her body. Because as you know, you work as a doctor in training for free. This is just one story from practice. 50PLUS looks forward to seeing the consequences of this cabinet's policy in the field of care and the introduced own risk. The own risk has more than doubled after introduction to €385 per adult. This is quite an attack on the wallet, especially if you add the supplemental dental insurance plus all the medicines for which you need to make money. More and more in recent years, the costs of government have been passed on to citizens. All the concerns that 50PLUS has already expressed are true. The National Family Doctors Association reports that 94% of general practitioners experience that patients declare that they have no money to follow doctor's advice. In particular, advice to laboratory tests, X-rays and medicines or referrals to specialists in the ggz, for example, are not followed. A study by TNS NIPO, cited by Mrs Marijnissen, showed that 10% of Dutch people avoided care in the first half of last year for financial reasons. Surely it cannot be the case in the Netherlands that people are going to avoid care for the only reason that they cannot afford it? In addition to people like Loes, 50PLUS is also concerned about people with low incomes and health problems. Especially people with chronic illness are those who suffer from the fact that their own risk has increased so greatly in recent years: their own contribution to the Wmo, health insurance, the repayment of medicines and the further undressing of the basic package. These people do not go to the doctor or a physiotherapist out of pastime. People no longer see the trees through the forest in support measures. They are untraceable and the care allowance is not always sufficient. And what about the group that is just above the income and capital limits for the surcharges? The chronically ill and disabled people Act has been abolished and each municipality draws its own plan into income support. 50PLUS has already indicated that this is unacceptable. It shouldn't matter where you live in the Netherlands. There is a need to create a basic municipal package to avoid unnecessary differences in support. Does the Secretary of State now consider this acceptable? All residents of the Netherlands must pay care premium. Then why does it depend on your place of residence for which you are compensated and what the compensation looks like? What about the campaigns announced to make people more familiar with the support schemes that exist? What about the action to get a better picture of the care avoiders together with the VNG? Short and good: avoiding care for financial reasons needs to be tackled vigorously. 50PLUS therefore wants to reduce its own risk as much as possible. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with the conclusion that the number of care-avoidants is increasing annually rather than decreasing and that this is a major concern? Is the Secretary of State prepared to set out concrete and ambitious objectives, to direct or to appoint his successor and to submit interim reports on this matter? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Our current healthcare system is based on solidarity. Everyone is required to be insured and healthy people contribute to the care costs of sick people. For the Christian Union, this solidarity is a great asset. However, we also see that it is under increasing pressure. Care costs continue to rise and the gap between sick and healthy seems to be widening, with the sad observation that more and more people are struggling to pay their care costs. There are countless reports written about care avoidance. Let us not have a debate today on which debates give a good idea or not. The policy reality is opposed to reality. The reality of a general practitioner indicating that care avoidance is a real problem. The reality of a chronically ill person who is confronted each year with a massive accumulation of his own risk and contributions and therefore needs less care. The reality of a student who misses physiotherapy when the number of reimbursed treatments is gone. And the reality of an older person who has the repeat recipes at the pharmacy but leaves for what they are, because their own contribution is too high. The Christian Union is keen to see its own risk reduced by €100. That could be part of the solution. At the same time, it is important that people are well aware of what is and is not at risk. For example, the general practitioner is not included. How will the Secretary of State improve knowledge about this? Then there are their own contributions, their own contributions for the Wmo, the Wlz and medicines. It is precisely the accumulation of care costs that people do not always see in advance. It is a accumulation that can lead to unexpected costs but also to care-avoidance. The Christian Union therefore calls for a ceiling to prevent the sum of healthcare costs exceeding the financial capacity of people. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Municipalities received 50 million this year to limit their own contribution to the Wmo. All municipalities also have opportunities for collective insurance and compensation for low-income people. However, municipalities cannot reach the target group properly and the target group does not know that there are municipal regulations. The solution of the Secretary of State was a VNG Congress, I read in a letter from, I believe, September last year. Has this conference taken place yet? What were the results? There must be more to ensure that the money actually reaches the target group. Could the social neighbourhood teams possibly play a role in this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Main lines of agreement, countering overtreatment, innovations, the concept of positive health of Machteld Huber, prevention and more treatments in the first line. These are the measures that we can send to keep the cost of care under control. In this debate, we cannot separate the micro-story from the macro-image. Caretaking by individual people has everything to do with how we in our country keep the cost of care affordable for people now and for future generations, because that too is solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Last September, on behalf of VGZ, a study by TNS NIPO.. the previous speakers also mentioned... that gives us more insight into the size of the number of people who avoid care for financial reasons. Let me be clear: as far as I am concerned, the results are quite shocking. A substantial proportion of the people, according to the TNS NIPO study about 10%, avoids care because they cannot afford it. In addition, two thirds of respondents indicate that their health complaints have got worse after they have postponed care. That is exactly why GroenLinks is very concerned about people who avoid care. In the long and short term, care-avoidance is not good for the patient, it is not good for the doctor and it is not good for society either, because symptoms that have got worse are often more difficult to treat. This creates problems for everyone. The National Family Doctors Association has also spoken about this on several occasions. A large proportion of the general practitioners say they can meet care avoiders in practice: people who do not follow referrals or do not pick up their medications. For vulnerable people, this problem is still the most urgent. I am also concerned that there are many people who do not yet have a good idea of what kind of care they receive from the health insurance provider. This is how many people think that the general practitioner is under their own risk, whereas this is not the case. But there are also people who think that a visit to the emergency services is being reimbursed, when that is not the case. Healthcare insurers and the minister have done something to improve information, but people still have wrong images about their own risk. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, information on its own risk really needs to be improved. Over the past four years, this outgoing cabinet has denied care-avoidance. Fortunately, the Labour Party has recently recognised, in election time, the problem of avoiding care as a problem. That it's richly late, we can call it an understatement. It doesn't fit in a prosperous country like ours that people avoid caring when they do need it. This is undesirable as far as GroenLinks is concerned. In my view, the establishment of health care should be as accessible as possible. This means that people who visit a GP are not afraid of a referral to a medical specialist and do not get into trouble due to unexpected bills. The cost of care should be borne by everyone. My group has been advocating this for years, and GroenLinks will be making a commitment to this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	This was quite clear in itself from Mrs Ellemeet, but also a bit implicit. Is GroenLinks in favour of the complete elimination of its own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	Unlike the Labour Party, GroenLinks has never made it unclear that care costs should not be so high as to lead to the avoidance of care. GroenLinks has been very clear over the past four years. The same applies to our electoral programme. We want a commitment that will allow everyone to pay for the care. We had this commitment, we have it, and we will have it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	GroenLinks is jointly responsible for the greatest increase in the history of its own risk with the Kunduz agreement. "Always" is therefore very much interpreted. My question was very simple: is GroenLinks going to completely eliminate its own risk? The fact that you want to keep care for everyone affordable is very general. Are you going to completely eliminate your own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	I note that Mr Nijboer is very pleased to speak in terms of measures. GroenLinks has a goal in mind, namely to keep the costs manageable and to keep the care accessible to everyone. We have made our own proposals for this. We all know, the Labour Party as well as we do, that we are now in a situation in which we will have to consider what measures can contribute to that goal. But let me be very clear again: care must be affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yes, I do like to talk about measures. People pay their own risk; they recognize that. In the election time GroenLinks said: that's what we're going for; that's what we're abolishing. That's more useful to people than when she says as a forming party: yes, people, it must be affordable for all of you. That's not gonna do them any good. I would therefore like to call on Mrs Ellemeet to stand behind her foreman, Mr Klaver, and say: we are fighting for the elimination of our own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	I shall repeat it again, because I do not think it has quite arrived at the Labour Party yet. GroenLinks focuses on the fact that care for everyone is affordable. We have also been very clear about our own risk. That is too high, which has helped to avoid care. That absolutely needs to be addressed. We support that, and we will continue to support it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	I am glad to hear that GroenLinks will at least stick to that. I think that's very important. But in your plea, you call on the Secretary of State to improve information on the risk involved, especially in relation to the general practitioner visit. Do you not think that the general practitioner is very good at deciding whether or not someone needs care? Isn't it a little weird that we still have our own risk, because the general practitioner decides whether care is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	My point about information is that I am concerned that people do not know what is and is not under their own risk. There are now people who, for example, do not go to the general practitioner because they are convinced that the general practitioner is at their own risk. That's undesirable. As far as we are concerned, everyone must have access to the general practitioner and not be restrained. It's a bad thing that people don't go to the GP for that reason. That is why I think it is very important that everyone knows how to find the general practitioner and dare to go there. That is not the case now. That is why I ask the Secretary of State for better information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	I hear Mrs Ellemeet's answer, but that raises a new question. I have just mentioned that the risk of reducing the cost of care has been put in place. So my question to Mrs Ellemeet is again: if the doctor decides whether a referral is to be made to the hospital, how can you say that the bill should be paid to the people who need the care? They go to the general practitioner and decide that they need this care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Again, we think it is important that everyone gets the care he needs. If a general practitioner indicates that someone should be referred to a medical specialist, the cost of care should never be a reason for people not to go. That's what I'm really worried about. A lot of general practitioners indicate that this is the case now, but that should not be the case. That is where we find each other completely. But information is another point. We now see that people don't go to the family doctor for the wrong reasons. This has created a new problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	I have the point of information, but my point is that it is only after people have been to the GP that their own risk is to run and if the GP advises to go to the hospital for a lung photo. Again, doesn't that mean you don't actually trust the GP? Don't you think the GP gives a good referral, but won't refer if it's not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	Let me be very clear about this: I have every confidence in the general practitioner. The GP is the person par excellence in determining whether someone should be referred to a medical specialist. The trust must indeed lie there. That's the job of the GP in our care system. It should never be the case that the general practitioner decides that someone should go to a medical specialist, but that the costs are the reason why someone still chooses not to go to the specialist. So I have every confidence in the GP. Again, the costs should never be so high that people do not go to a medical specialist for that reason. They are now. That is what we are very concerned about, and that is why we believe that something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	I sense a lot of meaningless phrases in GroenLinks, among other things: the costs should never be so high that people do not go to a specialist. Those are really meaningless sentences compared to the language that GroenLinks expressed in election time. GroenLinks was very clear: its own risk had to be eliminated. Can we now conclude, a few weeks after the elections, that GroenLinks turned that in at the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	The level of their own risk and the way in which their own risk is now used also lead to care avoidance. It's not the only reason, it's definitely a reason. That is why we are concerned. The instrument has grown out of its joints, has an undesirable effect and leads to care avoidance. That is why we are very critical of this. We still are, but we see above all that the cost of care for some people is priceless. We need to do something about that. That's what we're holding on to. That is what we have put on the agenda in recent years, and we have done so in the campaign, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's a lot of meaningless sentences. It is true that there are meaningless sentences when you say that people should be able to continue to go to the specialist and that they should continue to be able to pay their own risk, when you have said in election time that the risk must be removed. I can't hear GroenLinks saying that anymore. Does GroenLinks hold on to completely abolishing its own risk, as it promised its electorate in election time and to which it probably also owes some of its election profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	I'm very curious if people who don't go to the GP or specialist because of the costs would find these meaningless sentences. We say that the cost of care and its own risk is too high and that we must do something about it. This breaks into the lives of a lot of people who can't afford care right now. We want to do something about that. That's what we stand for. That hasn't changed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	In election time, GroenLinks didn't think anything needed to be done about it. In election time, only a few weeks ago, GroenLinks felt that its own risk should be completely eliminated. So I ask for the third time: has GroenLinks already turned that in at the negotiating table and is therefore Mrs Ellemeet's contribution as it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	Its own risk is an instrument that leads to care avoidance. We are critical of that. That doesn't change anything. Our commitment is as strong as he was in election time, namely to ensure that care costs are affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Care-avoidance is a serious problem. That is why we are discussing this again here in the House of Representatives, because the subject is not new on our agenda. It's on everyone's retina. People need to know the consequences and risks of abandoning necessary care. There is still a great deal of uncertainty as to what we mean by avoiding care. What exactly is the concern avoided and for what reasons? What are the exact figures? Is there any mention of "it might sound a little strange "welcome care avoids" or unwanted care avoids"? I assume that today we are avoiding unwanted care, which of course we do not want. Studies show that sometimes people avoid care that is actually necessary. The LHV (National Family Doctors Association) indicates that the general practitioners have to deal with this, but that the exact size is still difficult to determine. There is not even a clear view of the vulnerable people who are affected by this. That is what we are dealing with; we do not know exactly. As far as D66 is concerned, there are a number of points of interest when someone does not follow a doctor's advice for financial reasons. In any case, the physician should give advice and inform the patient about the importance of following that advice. The doctor may also point to possible complications if not followed, but he may also refer to the health insurance company, where payment arrangements can be made or to all those municipal facilities. This is also a point in the provision of information to patients. Does the Secretary of State have a little insight into how that happens in the GP's room? Does he ever talk to the doctors' organizations about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think we are seeing the dilemma of the negotiating table in optima forma here. GroenLinks wanted to eliminate the whole risk in election time, but now withdraws. On the other hand, we saw D66 who, in election time, did not want to do anything about their own risk. Have you also fallen from your faith, Mrs Dijkstra? Can we possibly expect a reduction in our own risk now? Did D66 perhaps return to her pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	It's so interesting what Mrs. Agema is trying to do. She would like to know how the discussion is going at the information table. I can assure you that I am not there. I can also assure you that I have always said in all the election debates that we find it very undesirable. That is what I said here in the House of Representatives. In 2015 there was also research on care avoidance and then I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Leijten of the SP. The Minister has always told us that if you look at the period when there was no risk of one's own, care was also avoided. Those numbers aren't so different. D66 has noted that there is a real problem especially for people with chronic illness. We have said in election time, but that is what we are saying now, and that is what we are saying today, that we must reduce the burden on that group. So we need to see what we can do for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	D66 is doing now, at least in election time she did zero to achieve that relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	You haven't been paying attention, Mrs. Agema. I haven't seen much of you in those debates either. So I get that, too. We have always stated in these debates, and we have done so in our reading and in our electoral programme, that we want to intervene in our own contributions, especially for the chronically ill and the disabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	You don't do anything about your own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	I haven't announced that either. I didn't hear myself say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	I asked a question about that, but then you're gonna answer another subject and you're gonna give me a you-bake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	You never do, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	I asked about our own risk, and Mrs Dijkstra is talking about other parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	There are a lot of high care costs and a lot of jars that people pay off on. I was talking about your own risk, in which you are diametrically opposed to your members of GroenLinks. I was wondering if you were taking a step towards GroenLinks. I realize now that this is not at all the case and that we can expect very little on this very important issue, which dominates every election, namely whether the risk is reduced or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mrs. Agema is trying to put her own interpretation on the table with me. I have replied to that and I will continue with what I have intended. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that, of course, in their practice, the general practitioners also see that people are avoiding care. This is worrying, because the general practitioner is available for everyone at a low level and at no cost. Yet there is still noise about that. That is why I would like to return to the question I have just asked: should we not conclude that the lack of information and that people do not know enough what is at risk and what is not at risk? My question then is how we will improve that. I am now asking that question to the Secretary of State, but I have already put it to the Minister before. I'd like to hear a concrete roadmap. The own risk is a contribution to the high healthcare costs in the Netherlands. These high costs of care arise because we provide a great deal of care here, from neighborhood care to complex oncological care. We should be very proud of that, too. Through our own risk, we ask everyone who calls on that care to contribute. That these costs, I would also like to say to Mrs Agema, certainly in conjunction with their own contributions to some people, such as chronically ill, can be considerably increased, D66 sees this as well. That is why we have previously indicated that we would like to compensate people in a targeted way. This is done, for example, through the healthcare allowance, but we also see other possibilities. This subject is now on the formation table and requires serious attention. There is, of course, a high cost involved, and that has to be financed from something. We're all gonna watch that. I can't say more than that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about one's own risk and whether or not people are worried about the level of the mandatory own risk. Its own risk has increased considerably since its introduction. You can go to the GP, because it is not subject to the mandatory own risk, but what if the GP refers you to a medical specialist or prescription medicine? The research of VGZ does give a worrying picture. Of one in five Dutch people, 19%, who have already delayed or avoided care this year, half say that it costs them too much or that they want to save their own risk. Of the people who have used care since 1 January 2016, one in five indicates that they have concluded a payment arrangement with an insurer for paying their own risk. The CDA has often indicated in debates that its own risk, as part of its own payment in the care sector, has increased too much for users. People with disabilities, chronic illness and age problems have been particularly affected. Target groups with low and middle incomes come and get into trouble. Often a chronically ill person has already used up his own risk every year at the beginning of January, and that is not a choice. And that is all we are talking about here is our own payment in the Health Insurance Act. A year earlier, in 2015, the Minister commissioned an investigation into avoiding care. The Minister then took a number of follow-up actions. This concerns information activities, such as the possibility to pay one's own risk, the promotion of tax deductions and targeted information to the group of 18 to 39 year olds, who are the most deprived of the necessary care. In consultation with the VNG, the role of municipalities is also given greater prominence in the information provided by the government. But is this sufficiently known to citizens, to care seekers with low or middle incomes? And how many municipalities want to support care seekers who earn above that limit of often 120% of the statutory minimum wage? Can the Secretary of State explain what these information activities have resulted in and how this has been made measurable? The Minister states that an insurer can also decide for itself that certain care is not liable for its own risk. In the Quality letter, insurers are encouraged to use their own risk more as a steering tool. Insurers may choose not to charge their own risk in the case of care forms. But that does not mean that people with less financial resources have less freedom of choice? And freedom of choice is, of course, a great asset. This is linked to the accessibility of care. I'd like to get a reaction to this. In the same letter, the Minister states that, in the context of the implementation of the WMO, municipalities have freedom of policy in the way in which they implement the compensation for additional costs. Municipalities which offer a concession often opt for a definition in advance of which groups are eligible for a concession. However, a municipality has the possibility to provide that an arrangement may be made in individual circumstances, which do not provide for a more general concession. On this point too, the Minister or the Secretary of State and the Association of Dutch Municipalities discussed how to better inform citizens about the municipal concession policy. As far as the Minister or the Secretary of State is concerned, these resources are therefore widely available for the rising costs of care at low incomes. Can the Secretary of State explain what came out of the consultation with the VNG and how municipalities actually deal with this? Indeed, practice has shown that people with this type of application for compensation have to fill out a lot of paperwork and wait a long time for clarity. However, sometimes due to necessity the care cannot wait and the own risk is already up in mid-January. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he practically thinks he's working this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	In particular, the first part of Mrs Keijzer's speech is true. That is not so strange, because in the election campaign too, we have often heard the CDA talk about drastically reducing its own risk. GroenLinks we have often heard about abolishing one's own risk. My question is: can we count on the CDA and GroenLinks in the formation discussions, so that something really happens with our own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	The answer to that is very simple: yes. But what comes out in the end, we'll have to wait with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	It is good to hear this commitment from the CDA. My question is: what is the reason why Mrs Keijzer does not want to get rid of her own risk at all? What is the reason why she would want to keep it up at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	We have also exchanged this very often in those same debates. It has to do with the function of brake money, as you can call it. That's one of the reasons you shouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	In fact, I have the same question to ask Mrs Keijzer: if she thinks that the own risk could function as a brake charge, then that is not consistent, because at the moment that decision lies with the general practitioner. Mrs Keijzer has just said: at the moment when the doctor refers to the hospital and says that medication is needed, there should be no brake on it? After all, a general practitioner, someone who has been trained to do so, looked at it. Then why is Mrs Keijzer talking about brake money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	The practice is, of course, more uncomfortable than that. What you sometimes hear from general practitioners is that patients necessarily want to go to the hospital, while the general practitioner wonders if it is necessary. Its own risk does have a braking function. So that is also a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	This is kind of complicated to me. We have confidence in the general practitioner and we trust that he will not be put under pressure in any way either. In addition, we have, of course, a lot of examples at the moment of people saying: I may not go to the doctor, because I suggest that I have to have medication; I am not going to do that surgery, imagine that I need additional physical therapy that I cannot afford. Mrs Keijzer will also receive the e-mails. She herself mentioned the 10% survey, but a lot of other studies have been done. Doesn't she agree with me that being sick isn't a choice? If people need care, and the GP assesses that, shouldn't people just get that care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	That's why the CDA put that broad story in the election. If people need care, they should be able to get it. It's about your own risk. That is why we had incorporated a substantial reduction in our own risk into our plans. That is why we discussed our own contribution. It is, of course, broader than its own risk. This €385 own risk per year is only part of the cost for the group of people Mrs Marijnissen is talking about, the chronically ill, the disabled and the elderly. The amount of own contributions can sometimes be up to that amount in four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	I would like to return to Mrs Marijnissen's first question. Mrs Keijzer gave a pretty clear answer to this: when the CDA enters the cabinet, its own risk goes down. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	No, the question that Mrs Marijnissen asked was whether she could count on the CDA and GroenLinks groups to use what we have written in our electoral programmes in the discussions that are taking place. The answer to that is yes. Mr Nijboer knows more than anyone how it ultimately works in practice if you have to come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	That is exactly why I am so keen on the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Well, you weren't!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is why I am asking you to do so; this is, of course, the subject of a debate. I thought you went further than Mrs Dijkstra, who says she is not there, or Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, who says that it should be affordable but that she does not say anything else today. But you are actually saying the same thing: I assume that you or your party leader will take that under the arm, but you are not giving any clarification here as to whether that is the direction the negotiating parties are heading towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	I am actually saying the same thing as Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Ellemeet. I'm not one of them either. As far as we are concerned, care must remain affordable, but you can of course assume that what we have written down in our programmes will, of course, be included in our programme. It would be weird if you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. I tried anyway; I thought: maybe we get some direction and some clarity. We are talking today about our own risk and whether that leads to less going to the doctor. In recent years, the Kunduz chord has greatly increased its own risk. Afterwards, the development of one's own risk is related to the development of care costs. This has always been compensated through the care allowance and otherwise. Arrangements have been put in place for distributed payments in cases where people were in danger of getting into financial difficulties. The PvdA has finally come to the conclusion that patchwork does not work in practice. All kinds of tests have been done. There is a great deal of competition about the percentage: does 20% lead or some percentage and does this vary from group to group? The principle that ultimately leads the PvdA and which makes us in favour of the complete elimination of one's own risk is that the choice to go to the doctor or doctor should never be a financial choice. If you're just two and for example have AOW, it's often older people who take care and if you get an account of €770 on the mat as early as January, you realize why people don't always do that. Then you can offer a spread-out payment scheme that people have to find, but that does not work in practice. The use of care should never be a financial consideration. This says something about the attitude towards care. Colleagues know that I did the Treasury portfolio for this. So I have just read back some letters from the cabinet before this debate begins. I would like to read out two sentences that deal with this. The first sentence of the letter reads: "In recent years, the social debate has regularly talked about care avoidance." So that's not going to the doctor because of your own risk. The second sentence is: "Distance from care is not necessarily undesirable." That's what the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport writes. That says something about your attitude to your own risk and the investigations that have been carried out. If that's your attitude, well, it's actually desirable that people don't take too much care, because it costs a lot of money. The attitude advocated by the PvdA is that people who are sick should be given the care they need. I also have a technical question for the cabinet, because the views are well known. I am also well aware that the negotiating parties are not giving us any directional clarity. Or would you like to allow an interruption first, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	Then I'll hold off on my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	I would just like to comment on the previous paragraph that Mr Nijboer spoke. He expressed his disgust at the sense that avoiding care is not necessarily a bad thing. Does Mr Nijboer know how many people come to the general practitioner who are ultimately not subject to medical complaints? That's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	I think the percentage is very difficult to determine, but that happens of course. In itself, we must also combat overuse of care. In fact, there are drug manufacturers who push doctors to sell as many medicines as possible. So I get it, but it shouldn't be the main focus. We know how that goes with a letter of inquiry. A letter like that is put together exactly. And then the first thing the cabinet says about people who can't afford their own risk: it's not necessarily undesirable; we actually think it's desirable as a matter of principle. That's what I spoke to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	I didn't hear the Labour Party when that letter appeared. In the end, no medical care is required in 70% to 80% of the general practitioner's consultations. Those are the figures of the general practitioners themselves. But there are always people who still want a medical solution. Even if the doctor says it's not necessary, those people want a photo taken or they want to be forwarded to the specialist. Can Mr Nijboer imagine that, although a doctor advises not to do so, he will still refer if the patient persists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	I hope I misunderstood the first one. I cannot imagine Mrs Dijkstra saying that 70% to 80% of visits to the general practitioner would not make any sense in the medical sense. That seems to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	No, I didn't say "no sense." I said, "No need to lead to medical action." There are a lot of people coming to the general practitioner who do not need a prescription immediately. They have complaints, but it is not always necessary for them to be forwarded. However, there are people who do. What does Mr Nijboer think about the fact that the general practitioner finally admits? Of course, that will cost the patient his own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	Sure. By the way, it is sometimes very pleasant when you go to the doctor and it turns out that you can not be helped with medicines but otherwise. That will be the bulk of the 70% to 80%. That is a very important role of the general practitioner. So I don't see that as a problem, which is why I reacted. I agree with Mrs Dijkstra that sometimes people are referred or want to be referred, while the GP says from his gatekeeper's position that it is not necessary. That's possible, but the question is whether you want to have it done on medical grounds, which stands for the PvdA or that you want to add a financial incentive to it. We are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	Then I would like to end by asking whether Mr Nijboer thinks that people should also be aware that care costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes. The care costs a lot of money, but the care is also very valuable. In its election programme, the PvdA has chosen to pay for this together and has done so. We have not managed to agree with the VVD on this. He'll find something completely different. She considers this financial incentive to be very important; we will hear it in a moment. We do, of course, think that the general practitioners and specialists have a say in this. After all, they are the doctors. The use of care is not unlimited, but we do not want to steer it with financial incentives. We want it to depend on medical matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	I hear Mr Nijboer making a fervent plea for the elimination of one's own risk. I also hear him say there's a price tag on care. Now abolishing one's own risk costs billions. Who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	We have put forward a proposal for this in our electoral programme. I'm also the Treasury spokesman. I'm very willing to talk about cover. We have proposed to finance this by increasing income tax by 1% across the board. Then we can do it exactly. Everyone will then contribute to this in a spirit of solidarity, and we will thus pay the risk of doing so. That is the proposal we have made, but I am prepared to look further at it. I also understand that we cannot make a 4.5 billion step in the next few weeks in one go. It's a step-by-step. I am therefore quite prepared to look at other coverage with Mrs Dik-Faber. However, this is what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	The elimination of one's own risk costs an enormous amount of money, namely 4.5 billion. This must be achieved by society as a whole, while, for example, I can afford to pay for my own risk. Is it not a very unfocused measure to eliminate one's own risk for everyone and then to pay it to society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	We pay a lot of things with all of us: good education, good social services and therefore care. The PvdA Group is in favour of this. We do not want to do this in an income-dependent way. Honestly, we have considered that and there have been some ideas within the party to suggest that, but that means that you have to bring your income data to every doctor's visit. Then the doctors need to know how much you make. That is a huge bureaucratic burden. We have proposed abolishing the risk of our own. Then it's not a trade-off for anyone. Because what do you do, for example, with the elderly with a wealth? Do you want to add that up? I know the Chamber a little bit: if you have an easy arrangement, it will be very difficult in a few years' time. We are proposing a simple measure. It is also very clear how we pay them; let there be no misunderstanding about that. It costs money; Mrs Dik-Faber is right. Our proposal is: eliminate your own risk, then the accessibility of care will no longer depend on finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	We are talking about one's own risk, but we also know the principle of one's own contribution. My group has proposed that we look at a ceiling for our own risk and our own contributions. The people who are really less capable can be dealt with in this way. Isn't that ultimately the social story that the Labour Party can support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	If you eliminate your own risk, the ceiling is also lower, especially if you're just the two of us. Then you come at €770, because it is €385 per person. So that contributes to that. When Mrs Dik-Faber makes proposals to refinance her own contribution, I always want to look at it. They're not ahead today, but the PvdA is always willing to look into that. We want a fair funding of care. The own contribution is in itself a logical principle, especially if you are in a care or nursing home and partly live there and thus pay a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	We have every confidence in the financial knowledge of Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. We are curious whether we have understood correctly that the PvdA is actually saying: we regret what we have done in recent years, because our own risk was too high, we have abolished the supplement for chronically ill people and we have driven people at high costs, certainly chronically ill. Is that what I hear in the PvdA's speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mrs Van Brenn asks whether we have actually done enough for those groups. If you look at what we have done every time our own risk has been increased, you will see that we have raised the care allowance at least as much for those who have the least. That is a bit of a variation on Mrs Dik's proposal to make it dependent on income, because the lowest incomes were fully compensated, even if they used the full own risk. Only you don't notice that in your wallet if you get a few more euros of care allowance each month and you have to pay a few euros of your own risk, and you pay for it in January. That leads to different behavior. I think we have done well in income policy, but not in implementation. We are now convinced that our own risk must be completely eliminated; this is also reflected in our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr Nijboer now admits that it felt very different for people in the wallet. I'm happy with that recognition. I wonder if he also sees and sees that the compensation in the municipality changes enormously; this can also cause people to be duped. Does the Labour Party say in terms of the freedoms of municipalities to introduce their own policies, now that we should have done so differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	The tax compensation has gone to the municipalities. I would remind you of the implementation of the chronically ill law in the tax way. Anyone who once had a slightly larger amount of medical costs was paid tax at once, even if they did not need it at all. That is not the right path. That is now going through the municipalities. I'll give you that there's still a lot to improve. The previous spokesperson's concern of the Labour Party has always emphasized this. We shall be discussing this with each other in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	I am glad that the Labour Party will support us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	Pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	It is nice to hear how well Mr Nijboer can explain how the present cabinet has properly compensated the additional costs of care in all possible ways. It may not have been such a visible way, but it did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	We were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's exactly what happened; very good. Now something else. Mr Nijboer says that the Labour Party has come to different insights; it no longer wants its own risk. That may well be the words of Mr Nijboer, paid by a small increase in income tax. That small increase is 1% per disk. This also means that many people are going to pay 3% extra tax, because there is 1% added in each disc. We can differ on that, but I think it is. The argument is that for education and that sort of thing, it is also done neatly through taxation. But if my kids want to go to college later, they're just paying tuition, right? That's not income-dependent at all. If I buy a car and I want to go on the road, I have to pay road taxes. I use something and I pay for it myself. That's perfectly normal. Why not in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Because care isn't a car. When children go to elementary school, there is no charge. There is a lot of discussion about their own contribution, but basically the primary school is also accessible free of charge. Care is a general collective provision which the Labour Party wants to make accessible free of charge. That really is a fundamentally different approach than when you say: you are sick and pay for it because you also use it. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	It's true you don't pay tuition for elementary school. For example, we have arranged in the Health Insurance Act that you do not pay your own risk for the general practitioner, the basis. If you want more, you'll pay for it. This reminds me a bit of education. If you want more, you're gonna pay tuition or tuition. Why is this so fundamentally different?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	Because if you want more than the GP, you break a leg or you get a serious disease, which is bad enough. We think you can make and pay for it all. You shouldn't confront people with a financial account again. I admit that ideologically this can be considered differently; that is simply another choice. "If you use something, you can pay something too," is a legitimate political view, but I don't share it at all. I'm totally opposed to that. I think it is a collective provision that we all contribute to. That is 1% of the income. So indeed, if you earn a ton, it is €1,000 per year, if you earn €20,000, it is €200 per year. That is the way the proposal is structured and it is as simple as that: income-dependent and no one pays any more of their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	Finalizing, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	I'm gonna try again. Mr Nijboer rightly points out that if a treatment is very expensive and its costs are incurred, we pay it with each other. Let's be clear: we are. We don't disagree on that. But why is it fundamentally different that if I want to enjoy higher education, for example, I pay for a part of it myself? Why is this not true in the case of care at a risk of €385? What is the fundamental difference between these two greats?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	A fundamental difference is that no one chooses to get sick. I don't know these people. They don't exist. You're sick and you need help. I think that is a fundamental difference in choosing an education that you want to take. It is really our view that we should not make care use financially dependent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	You do not see it that way in Mr Nijboer, but I also find the comparison with a car in terms of care bizarre. So it's up to me to see that a little bit more. I do have one more question. I find all the lyrics spoken here heartwarming. This raises the question of why the PvdA did not accept proposals from the parties at various times, as in 2015, at least not to allow the increase in its own risk to go ahead with, I believe, €15. By the way, these proposals were also covered. So the PvdA's financial spokesman can't come up with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	That's for two reasons. We have always compensated it through the purchasing power, through the care allowance. This has also been the contribution of the PvdA Group to the cabinet. So in income, people didn't go backwards. We've been honest about that, too. We don't believe this is going to work convincingly right now. That is why we now have a different view than before. The second reason is that coverage can be provided by sometimes the PvdA and sometimes the VVD. That is something that both parties must live with in a coalition. As you have just heard in the interrupting debate, the content of the VVD is not in line with the PvdA, which is also well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	Well, that's too bad. Then another attempt: own payments in municipalities. What's to do with that? We are talking here about €385 own risk per year. For two elderly people together this is €770 per year. That's quite a lot of money, absolutely, but own payments under the Wmo, for example, can sometimes amount to €300 every four weeks. What's to be done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	We are quite willing to look at proposals from the CDA or other parties to do something about that. Moreover, I find a difference between the situation in which you no longer live at home and therefore no longer eat at home, so in which your whole life is cared for, no matter how miserable it is, and you make a financial contribution to it yourself, and the situation in which you get sick and have to be treated in a hospital, for which that risk is meant, among other things. I think there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	The difference between these two is that the first situation is lifelong and the second situation occurs once. So the better thing is to do something for the category of people who depend on care and support at home for the rest of their lives. Now beautiful words, but where was the PvdA in recent years when among others I have constantly called attention to this and made proposals to change this? Why did you abolish the discount on your own contribution? The PvdA also sees that this ends up only at the lowest minima through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	I do not agree with the so-called distinction that one's own risk is one-off and that one stays in a care institution for a very long time. There are many chronically ill people who have quickly completed their own risks each year. That's hundreds of thousands of people. Mrs Keijzer, as an experienced and long-standing healthcare professional, knows these numbers better than I do. So I wouldn't want to make that distinction. I would nevertheless like to try to get together in this committee, Mrs Keijzer. I therefore offered you the opportunity to talk about this. I hope that in future debates I will be able to tempt you to make further commitments in order to do something about that risk. I am also willing to think about it as well as agree to it and to propose alternatives. That is also a bit of my call as financial spokesman to get it affordable and worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, Mrs. Keijzer, now Mrs. Ellemeet is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's not what I asked, Mr. Chairman. I asked him where he'd been in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	Plenty present, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	We hear Mr Nijboer tell several times that he is also the financial man of the PvdA. He does talk a lot about numbers. However, we are talking about care avoidance in this debate. There are a lot of figures behind care avoidance, but care avoidance is above all a very big social problem. There are a lot of people who don't go to the doctor because they can't afford it. So that's about money, but most of all, it's about care. Now the Labour Party has refused to recognise the problem of avoiding care over the last four years. We have had to wait until the memorable Carrézorg debate in election time. Then Mr Dijsselbloem recognized for the first time that there was such a thing as a problem of avoiding care. I ask Mr Nijboer not only where he was when he supported proposals to reduce the cost of care, but also why it took so long for the Labour Party to recognise that there is a major social problem in avoiding care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	I have just indicated that we do not think that use of care should be a financial consideration. Many investigations have been carried out, as Mrs Ellemeet knows. One study is a survey and is less reliable. The other research has followed another methodology. Of course, there are always people who may or may not be there... Well, they usually don't do wisely, but there are always people who also give financial reasons not to use a medicine or not to go to the hospital and thus indeed avoid care. That's the case. That is what this debate is about. I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	This is not the first time we have had the debate on care avoidance. My question is not answered either. Over the past four years, we have put on the agenda the major problem that people avoid care. Every time we talked about it, the Labour Party was not prepared to acknowledge that care avoidance is a major social problem. I hear Mr Nijboer now saying: 'lack of work; I do not agree; it has to be changed.' However, these data were also available in recent years. Several reports have been published. Why did the Labour Party fail all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	It is well known that we have not reduced our own risk in recent years and that we are now in favour of it. One of the causes is that we compensated through income policy. The lowest incomes were really compensated. We were very much in favour of that. Another reason is that the VVD had a totally different view of its own risk than the PvdA and that we had not agreed in the coalition agreement to reduce it. That does not happen in a coalition. In the election campaign, we made our views very clear. Mrs Ellemeet's party did the same. I'd say hold on to it. Indeed, just now there were very pervasive movements on her side. I support her in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	It is very unfortunate that in recent years, when this became an increasingly serious problem for many people, the Labour Party has not grasped the opportunity to recognise the problem and to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	My confidence lies in GroenLinks and other parties, but frankly I found the direction and the commitments today to be limited. Hope is for fishermen's wives, they say, but I hope it will be okay. Mr. Chairman. I come to my question. If we don't do something about our own risk and care costs are increasing, according to the system, the own contribution is linked to healthcare expenditure.................................................................................................................................................................................. So it still goes up by €65 per person. Even if you were not in favour of increasing one's own risk but of keeping it at the same level, money should be allocated to prevent this. My question to the cabinet is how much money is needed to prevent this increase in any case. Even the VVD I did not really hear in the election campaign claim that it wants a higher risk of its own. So what exactly is needed? And when should this be covered? I expect that there will be an increase for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	We're watching. Hope for fishermen's wives: that is a new expression for us. Just for fishermen's wives? Okay. Hope? Thank you, Mr Nijboer! I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr President, 'hope' was the last word you used. 10% of the Dutch population does not have that hope. They give to have avoided care because of their own risk. That's what the investigation of TNS NIPO shows. For a prosperous country like the Netherlands, this is a shocking and worrying conclusion. More than a million people with medical problems avoid caring for money. Of course, that has everything to do with the system of care and policies of recent years. Since 2012, its own risk has increased from €220 to a record level of €385. Those extra €165 should pay patients if they use the care. We are clear when it comes to one's own risk. Its own risk must be eliminated as soon as possible. Because how can people have to pay €385 if health insurance companies have 3.3 billion in reserves on the shelf? How do we explain that to people? How is it that people have to pay €385 while the pharmaceutical industry has gained billions in profits in recent years? How do we explain that to people? How is it that people have to pay €385 while medical device manufacturers are in the plus 1.5 billion? How do we explain that to people? The people in the country pay themselves to health care, while the insurers, the pharmaceutical companies and the manufacturers laugh. And that has to stop! Research after research shows that access to care is under pressure. 10% of people avoid care because of their own risk, according to TNS NIPO. 16% avoids care because of their own risk, according to the Dutch Patient Consumer Federation. The Dutch Family Doctors Association is calling the bell. Drivers in the ggz pull the bell. Everyone in the country is calling the bell, but what did the minister do in recent years? She wiped out the opinion of the people in the land. They wouldn't be reliable research results. And it doesn't check whether answers correspond to actual behavior. My question to the Secretary of State is: how are we supposed to understand this, whether answers correspond to actual behavior? Are all those people lying who say that their own risk causes care to become priceless or that they can't pay for their own risk? Why is so many people so easily wiped off the table? Where the Minister wiped one investigation off the table, she condoned the other. But the research the minister does believe in, an investigation by NIVEL, has very serious limitations. The study has only taken into account the effect of the increase in the own risk until 2013 and over the years after it doesn't say anything at all. The research doesn't say anything about the effect on the most vulnerable people. The people most likely to avoid their own risk are missing from that investigation. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on these points. If the Minister thinks that the survey is wrong and she does believe in the investigation with serious limitations, I am talking about the Minister because it is a letter from the Minister, isn't it true that she doesn't actually know about the effects of one's own risk? Is the investigation of NIVEL repeated? What will the Secretary of State and the Minister do to prevent the under-representation of vulnerable groups in the investigation? What about the representation of other hard-to-reach groups in the study? On these points, too, I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I'm rounding up. As far as DENK is concerned, it is clear that one's own risk disappears, so that care remains affordable and accessible to everyone. That does not have to lead to higher premiums, as long as we get the money from elsewhere. We have to get money from elsewhere: from multinationals, from the pharmaceutical industry, from health insurance companies and from greater capabilities. The time when the cost of care is passed on to the people who are vulnerable, to the people in the country, must be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. Personal payments in care will never become popular. This certainly applies to the own risk in the basic insurance. Delivered and also angry e-mails about the high own risk we all get. So it doesn't surprise me that when people are asked in a survey if they sometimes avoid their own risk, they really like to answer that question with "yes" and that people, if you ask them if their own risk should be eliminated or reduced, they also like to answer "yes." I understand that, and that will only be different if you also explain the consequences of such a choice, for example by eliminating one's own risk, the premium for everyone, sick and healthy, increases by €284. In other words, the Dutchman who perfects his own risk every year, after eliminating his own risk, has an advantage of just over €100, while the healthy Dutchman, who is the backbone of our very supportive health care system, is presented with an additional bill of €284 per year. This puts enormous pressure on solidarity between healthy and ill. The fact is that our healthcare system is extremely supportive and that care in the Netherlands is of an extremely high level. The fact is that our country's own risk is one of the lowest in the world. The fact is that sound research by NIVEL has shown that the amount of care avoidance has not increased in recent years despite the increases in the own risk. It is also true that the number of non-payers, which is also an indication of financial problems in the care sector, is no higher than at the time of the sickness fund, due to all kinds of measures taken by public authorities and insurers. In fact, over the past year, it has been considerably reduced, in other words, we are on the right track. The fact is, however, that too many people still do not know exactly what this is about, for example, that the care of the general practitioner and the district nurse is not at all at their own risk, that health insurance companies support people in all kinds of ways to prevent them from getting into financial difficulties, and that people with high care costs can be compensated for the costs of municipalities. On that last point, at the end of last year's budget debate, the motion for a resolution on item No. 53 of my former PvdA colleague, Mr Bouwmeester and myself, in which we asked the government to ensure that in municipalities there is one central and accessible point where people can go for all forms of compensation for healthcare costs. Can the Secretary of State state state state what is the state's position on the implementation of that motion? Finally. Personal payments in care will never become popular, but they do have a role in ensuring solidarity and keeping care affordable. We of the VVD are willing to look at smarter forms of own payments than the current own risk, at smarter forms that may be more effective and also feel fairer. In any case, the VVD will always be committed to the affordability of care for everyone. This can only be done if we continue to deal with the solidarity between healthy and ill. Only if we have that solidarity can we continue to guarantee that the very best care in our country is and remains available and affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	I'm starting to get a little worried. I was just as happy to hear from Mrs Keijzer that we can count on the CDA and the GroenLinks when it comes to drastically reducing or rather eliminating their own risk, and now Mr Rutte comes and, as we know from the VVD, goes into it with his feet stretched. Mr Rutte makes a plea here that we have one of the most social care systems in the world. My simple question to Mr Rutte is: what is social about a fine on being sick?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	There is almost no healthcare system in the world that has such low own payments as ours. The own risk in the Netherlands is extremely low. You can check out England, too. There they do not know their own risks, but there the care is a disaster, but well, that disastrous care is available to everyone. I don't want to. We have very good care. Here, someone with welfare benefits can just go to the very best private clinic, without thresholds. Yes, one's own risk is part of that, but that own risk is lower than anywhere else, and I'm proud of that. I believe that ensuring this solidarity and ensuring that accessibility is maintained is something to be cherished. We should be proud of that, and we should not break it down like the SP would want us to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	I don't know which people in the welfare department you're talking to, but I don't speak so many that come into a private clinic. I really don't understand. You say that we have the most social system in the world, but at the same time you say that we have to reduce the cost of care. I also ask you the question: do you not trust our general practitioners? Do you think they refer people to a hospital for fun without need? And if it isn't, I'm gonna assume that, or else it's gonna be a really weird story. Then why the fine on being sick?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	I think this is a bit of a weird story. I have just explained that we have an extremely supportive care system. We have a very wide coverage for everyone. And there are also people with welfare benefits who, if they have breast cancer, simply go to a private clinic for treatment. Those are fantastic clinics that are open to everyone. We should be a little proud of that. If it's the SP's fault, we'll make care a provision. I read that in the section of the Central Planning Bureau. The SP wants some kind of favor on care, instead of the duty of care we now know. I wouldn't use such big words and pretend the SP here is the keeper of accessible care for everyone. As someone on welfare, I'd rather be worried about that with the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	I do not know why Mr Rutte looks so dirty in saying the word 'SP' and the idea that care is a provision. Yes, we do believe in that. If a general practitioner, someone who has been trained to do so, decides that someone needs care, it should be possible in a civilised and rich country like the Netherlands. The thickness of your wallet shouldn't determine whether or not that happens. Mr. Rutte just compared the care with the purchase of a car. I think that's kind of weird. If I'm gonna pick a car, I really have a choice. I can pick a color. I can pick a model. I can choose how old he is. But if I get sick, is that a choice as far as you're concerned, Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Anyone who becomes ill in this country always has access to the very best care, wherever it is delivered. That's something to be extremely proud of. In the SP's plans there is no longer a duty of care, in which the general practitioner says that someone needs care and the insurer has a duty to deliver it. No, it's gonna be a provision, some kind of favor. If it's convenient, you'll be taken care of. That is literally in the documents of the Central Planning Bureau, for which the SP itself provided input. I'd be very worried about that. Fortunately, the electorate did not respond too enthusiastically to these plans either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	I'd like to continue on that car. I have, of course, had discussions with Mr Rutte's colleagues over the last four and a half years. For the first time now, I am faced with Mr Rutte himself in a debate. But he doesn't really mean that needing care is the same as buying a car?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	Where the government provides large facilities or where we have collective facilities and in care, collective provisions are provided by private institutions. It is not unusual for the person who uses such a service, education, care or road, to pay part of it himself. It's very common. It has just been said here that there would be no such thing as education, that it would be very strange and that we would pay it with each other. No, we pay a small part of a lot of collective provisions ourselves if we use them. I think that's perfectly normal. In that context, I made that comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	Okay, I get it. I get the comparison with education, but the one with buying a car was a big mistake. Well, at least that has been clarified, because I think that's a really weird comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr Rutte began his speech by saying that everyone says 'yes' to the question of whether the risk should be reduced. Has he also taken note of the figures and reports of the National General Medical Association? They really show an increasing percentage of cases in which general practitioners are confronted with people who decide for financial reasons that they now have no further need for care or that they do not take the advice of the general practitioner. Mr Rutte assumes that this does not happen, but the general practitioners indicate this. That should worry him, too, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	I think it is important that we also look at the research of the NIVEL, which cannot prove this on the basis of years of analysis of declarations. GP signals must always be taken seriously. I have tabled a motion in the budget for a reason to ensure that the support of people in financial need through high care costs is much more readily available to everyone. So I am not looking away from the fact that this could happen. People deserve support and should be able to find that care and support. In addition, insurers are right to do a great deal to ensure that these bumps are removed as much as possible, for example through distributed payments and payment arrangements. It is right and proper that all this should happen. It's also starting to pay off. For example, you can see a decrease in the number of defaulters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr Rutte has already pointed it out himself: the number of non-payers has not decreased in percentage terms, but this is because the health insurance companies make distributed payments possible to correct this. But that doesn't solve the problem, does it? The problem is that a lot of people run into the cost of care for their financial situation too high, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	If Mrs Van Brenk, in general, wants to avoid the cost of care being too high, she will find me at her side. I think it is very important that we control the costs of care so that care is affordable not only now but also in the future for everyone. But Mrs. Van Brenk is probably referring to individual cases. In individual cases, people get into financial problems for all kinds of reasons. Then a risk of your own may also be an objection. I think it is very important that these people find the good help and support that is available at municipal level and that is also provided by health insurance companies. Healthcare insurers often work together with municipalities in this area. The road is often too complicated. I'd like it to be clearer. I tabled a motion on this in November last year, together with Mrs Bouwmeester, for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	Do I understand that Mr Rutte also thinks that people with a small wallet need more support and that people who are more capable can also contribute more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	Then we are talking about making further income dependent on healthcare contributions. I don't feel like it. We do have a care allowance that takes that into account and compensates those people with a very low income. This care allowance is further increased every year on the basis of the increase in the premium and its own risk, and that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Agema, who speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. The number of people who do not have money for their own risk and therefore do not use prescribed care increased by almost half in 2016 compared to 2015. This is called the brake effect, and that is the intention of the cabinet. However, it does not see that it has been finally lost with its own risk of €385. We were against the introduction of our own risk at the time and are now in favour of its abolition. A patient who goes through with complaints eventually becomes a more expensive patient. Not to mention all the unnecessary extra suffering that goes on when things go wrong. This was already known in 2007. Think of all those older people who are already in a payment scheme in January 2017. For two persons, this amounts to €64 per month, on top of the other fixed costs and other care costs such as the care premium, own contributions for household help and medicines and own payments for all items for which the compensation has disappeared over the years. This applies not only to low-income people. Many people with a middle income or pensioners with a small pension can no longer be strongholds. The account has been moved too much to its own wallet. I remember the debate on replacing the no-claim with its own risk at the end of 2007, almost ten years ago. It was a debate that attracted us all, but for which the mainstream media were hardly interested. They had flocked to the Novotel, where Rita Verdonk was talking to her party leader. That so many years later no one talks about Iron Rita anymore, but that the own risk of election dominates, shows how a shame it is sometimes that sensation goes beyond its content. Finally, in 2008 D66, the CDA, the Labour Party, the Christian Union and the SGP voted to introduce their own risk as of 1 January 2008. At that time it was already €160. In the meantime, this has risen to €385. It seems to me that there is more and more concern about this. This was already mentioned in 2007. Every day we see our welfare state demolished. One in five general practitioners saves medicine and then provides it for free to people who cannot afford it. Officially, this isn't allowed, but it's the practice. A drug bank has now been set up in our country for poor Dutch people, while the rest of the world is welcome here and receives free care and free medicine. I wonder when there will be a care bank, a plaster bank, an incontinence material bank and a tool bank. I'm sure we'll see. After all, a majority in the Chamber would prefer our welfare state to be replaced rather than to close the border. It warns of rising care costs and ignores rising asylum costs, whereas this is an open-ended scheme. It's a prayer without end. In her letter, the Minister is quite wrong to say that the elimination of one's own risk will by definition lead to an increase in the premium and higher contributions of one's own. That's not true. I say close the borders. Anyway, the actuality. We are looking at the negotiating table with high expectations, but is that so exciting? When it comes to own risk, the wrong parties are together. The VVD and D66 just want to keep their own risk as it is. GroenLinks wants to abolish it completely, but that was election nips. It also wants to abolish the healthcare allowance. The CDA wants its own risk of €280, but also cuts the healthcare allowance. I think we will see how the subject of our own risk will dominate the elections. I believe that we will have many debates on many reports before we really take a blow at our own risk, and that is a great pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the report that 10% of Dutch people would avoid care because of financial risks. That message dates back some time ago. I think it would be a good idea today to see that we agree that it is undesirable for people to avoid necessary care for financial reasons. It is also right that this issue has received a great deal of attention and still needs to be given a great deal of attention. Many of you have already said it: there have been several investigations, all of which know their own findings and limitations. The reason for the report about 10% of care avoidrs is based on a study conducted by TNS NIPO on behalf of VGZ. A questionnaire was sent out to insured persons asking for opinions. What do you expect the results to be when this happens? Last year, following this investigation, the reports about this and also questions asked by the Chamber, in collaboration with the Consumers' Association, the Dutch National Family Medical Association and Health Insurance Association, an extensive investigation into care avoidance was carried out on the basis of the health records and the declaration figures. This in turn showed that the increase in own risk has not been accompanied by an increase in the number of care avoiders. You can also comment on this again, because figures of medical-specialist care were until 2013 Mr. Kuzu pointed out this and those of medicines and devices were back until 2014. This means that you also get a picture of what you don't see and that the actual declaration behaviour has had a great influence. The number of defaulters dropped. Mr Rutte also pointed this out. You can see in all these studies that people are avoiding care for other reasons. This can sometimes be out of pure fear or because of lack of time or the suspicion or the hope that the complaint will pass itself. However, we must continue to work to ensure that people do not abandon necessary care for financial reasons. Mr Nijboer has already mentioned what has happened in this area in the past period, at least what measures have been taken by the cabinet. I cannot therefore recognise myself in the view that the cabinet would have avoided the discussion about care avoidrs. By the way, that would be a double avoidance. In the last period, apart from the investigations, we have taken a number of measures which at least work towards ensuring that it is prevented as much as possible. We must also simply objectively note that in 2013 our own risk increased, but that the lowest incomes are fully compensated for the increase that has taken place through the care allowance. The lowest incomes, and these are facts, now pay €80 less in premium and on average own risk than in 2015. So that means that there has been a very good compensation for that. Which, by the way, is not always experienced this way. It's spread over time, too. You get care allowance at a different time than you pay your own risk. That link doesn't make people. But, as Mr Nijboer said, in terms of purchasing power and spending space, something has happened. I would also point out that good control of healthcare expenditure is perhaps the best way to keep care costs for people a little manageable. Mrs Faber rightly referred to the past but also to the need for it in the future. We must have a constant interest in the fact that the control of healthcare expenditure is the main source of why it is becoming more expensive or not more expensive for people. From 2016 to 2017, you can see that this does not increase your own risk. In addition to the care allowance, there are many other measures. Municipalities will receive from 2017 a structural 268 million to provide tailor-made services for their residents in relation to the costs of care and support. I see, sometimes a little slow but certainly, that municipalities also take responsibility for that. I shall come back to this in a little more detail later on in relation to a number of questions that have been asked. There are municipalities that have introduced a multi-cost scheme or offer special assistance. Sometimes they work with collections. I refer to the municipality of Rotterdam, which is concluding a very broad collectivity, in which besides its own risk, Wmo's own contributions are included. All examples that municipalities can use these resources effectively. That is important, because Mr Nijboer also pointed out the previous scheme, the Wtcg discount, was of course very focused on care use. That was sometimes also about medications that were taken. Some people did get a discount while they didn't really need it and some people didn't get a discount when they actually needed it. It is still important for the coming period to highlight the various possibilities for compensation. Soon I will go into more detail about the questions on this subject, but that is why this issue has been included in the last autumn campaign on policies. Then there was a special team in the country to answer people's questions at fairs and markets. I'll go into that later. In addition, we have organised a conference with the VNG, together with the municipalities, to give attention to the findability and compensation possibilities for people who used care and needed care compensation. Finally, I have had a great deal of attention for the accumulation of their own contributions. As of 2017, a number of targeted measures have been taken to improve the purchasing power of older people. In addition, the own contribution for the WMO has been reduced by EUR 50 million. I sometimes notice that this is an underestimated point, because for non-AOW-owned multi-person households, this measure leads to a significant reduction in the own contribution. For example, non-AOW beneficiaries with an income of up to €35,000 no longer pay their own contribution. Other types of households also benefit to a greater or lesser extent. If you look at all of this, you will see that the government has tried to control the cost of care over the past period, to ensure that compensation for lower incomes through purchasing power was available where necessary, and to enable municipalities to provide tailor-made services in very specific circumstances. Now there is another period in which a number of coalition parties are talking to each other about the question: are we going to continue with this or are we going to set it up differently? In doing so, the debate on the own risk and on what different parties think of it is important. I've seen the election programs at that point. There is not much agreement yet. I do not think it will be clear this afternoon what this agreement could be, but there are not that many tastes in itself. You can say: we continue with our own risk. Then you must continue with the possibilities of compensation that we now offer. You can also choose a more principled line by not burdening people who have no choice with their own risk. That is why I myself suggested this in Buitenhof, on the eve of the elections, and said: you cannot eliminate that risk for free. That actually costs about 4.5 billion. If you want to reduce or abolish that, for which there is something to say because it concerns people who cannot make that choice, who do not have that choice, then you will have to make a choice by putting it in the premium or by doing so through taxes. A party for which I can explain my love more in the missionary period than in the non-missionary period, namely my own party, has very interesting ideas about this. I strongly recommend to the parties who are now holding formation talks to revisit the Labour Party's electoral programme. There is a good proposal with adequate coverage. I hope that the parties in this Chamber will be as clear as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	You're working on a state-law spielerei, but let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	Give me a spider's kit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	I'll give you anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	A number of questions have been asked about the investigations. Mr Kuzu asked whether vulnerable groups were not underrepresented in the NIVEL study and perhaps in more studies. He's got a point. In studies like this, the response among hard-to-reach groups is always lower. The same applies to ethnic groups. That is why we are talking to general practitioners working in disadvantaged areas in particular to see how we can better reach this group, even in the case of research of this kind. In 2013, we did those investigations. More recent data were not available, but we will continue our efforts to increase that accessibility. That's what we do with the GPs. Many questions have been asked about information. How can you further improve knowledge about what is and is not at risk? Firstly, by making it even clearer every time those policies come in the autumn. This year, too, people are being informed about their own risks and health insurance, to put it bluntly. We have had a media campaign this autumn, precisely about the fact that the general practitioner and the general practitioner are outside their own risk. You may remember that campaign. On social media, we have rolled out a separate campaign for the low-literate, with videos and animations on the same theme, to explain to everyone exactly what the insured and the risk is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	The Secretary of State lists the campaigns and information meetings that have been held. It is very good that they have taken place, but does he also recognise that there are still many people who, despite these campaigns, do not know that general care is not at their own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	You are still reading reports about this and I still come across people who do not realize it and who do not realise that, for example, care is not at their own risk. This means that our efforts to inform people about this should not be reduced and that we should re-examine this in every campaign. We must continue to provide information on this point, because this is a very important issue. I also point out that it is also on national government.nl, but not everyone looks at it. A good example is that Stichting Complaints and Disputes Zorgverzekeringen (SKGZ) informs young people on the MBOs and the ROCs about their own risk and applying for health insurance. This information is entirely aimed at young people aged 18-min who become 18-plus and therefore have to choose insurance. I think it's very good to continue with that sort of thing. On this point, Mrs Keijzer specifically asked what this information and consultation with the UNG resulted in. The municipalities also support people above the income limit of 120%. That seems very important to me, but I agree with Mrs Keijzer that information on this issue can be improved and that municipalities need to think more about how to deliver good customisation. We now know about 54 municipalities that set their own contribution to the WMO below the maximum. 39 municipalities have a minimum policy and others set their own contribution to zero. The number of good examples I have mentioned the municipality of Rotterdam is also rising. In Amsterdam, for example, a person can receive compensation for clothing, washing, energy costs or meals. The municipality of Groningen has a specific benefit for people with a chronic illness or disability. The municipality of Middelburg links it to the Special Assistance for chronically ill. The municipality of Utrecht also has a separate concession for people with high care costs and chronic diseases. You can see that it's starting to work and that everyone there, considering their own people, is looking for their own mode. We are still working with the VNG to make an inventory and to tell it even wider. In June, a number of working conferences will be held with the municipalities, for which client organisations are also invited and where good examples are shared and taken over. We also hope to reach more and more municipalities with these meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	There's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	I hear a number of examples and I hear very often the word'minimal policy'. Are these examples also about people who are exactly above 120% of the statutory minimum wage? Mostly thought: municipalities are busy, because they have a policy. But then when you dig into that policy, you see that it's about people with an income below 120% of the statutory minimum wage. I looked it up once, but that's about $21,000 gross. You don't go on a cruise three times a year. Are the congregations working on that group, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	Yes, but I say this with caution, because I also see, like Mrs Keijzer, that municipalities use the financial compensation mainly for lower incomes. If they have to make choices where they are going to put their money on, it will be mainly for lower incomes. That observation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	I, too, have asked about the offer of municipalities. On that side, the Secretary of State is hard at work. There will be conferences with the VNG. I hope that pays off. But I'm also looking at the people who need it. These people don't always know their congregation has facilities. How can we reach that group? Could social neighbourhood teams also play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	Sure. Of course, it is mainly up to the municipalities to provide a clear point of contact and to provide information on the municipal possibilities. But the social neighbourhood teams, who are very close to those in need of care and are often vulnerable, can also take this issue with them. Part of the talks with the VNG is and will be how, in addition to these information channels, we can also use the social neighbourhood teams as an information channel so that people are informed. There will be two congress days, on 1 and 15 June. Municipalities can learn from each other. We will spread the good examples. Then we will also see how municipalities deal with care avoidrs and what compensation options they offer. Are they easy to find and how can we use them for the people who matter? We will certainly take the suggestions of the district teams into account. The Bouwmeester/Arno Rutte motion in respect of that one window is also discussed there in the preparation. With the VNG, the agreement has been made that we will talk to municipalities about how information can be provided. I'm not so keen on doing the investigation myself. We must focus all our efforts on improving information. That seems to me to be the best way to carry out this motion. I come to the other questions. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether there should be no ceiling on the sum of healthcare costs. Part of it is. The own contributions of the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo already have an anti-cumulative clause. The own contribution for the Wmo is not due if there is already a private contribution for the Wlz. In addition, the possibility of anti-cumulation at one's own risk has already been considered. But that turns out to be very complex, because it builds up and because it doesn't happen all at once. There is also a very substantial compensation of the mandatory own risk through the healthcare allowance and the municipal initiatives that I have just mentioned. If you want something with that, you should actually talk about the system of own contribution in the Wmo rather than a ceiling. We already have such a ceiling with the anti-cumulative clause, the corresponding income-related tables and the compensation for one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	I hear what the Secretary of State says about the counter-cumulative clause; I know that too. He says that we actually have some sort of ceiling with that. Yet I see people and read and hear about people who are dealing with a accumulation of their own contribution and risk, which has led to a huge increase in healthcare costs in a limited number of years, which often exceeds the capacity of people. So I hear the Secretary of State say it and I am sure he is right, but I hear other noises as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	I think that's right, but then we're almost in a debate about our own risk. You can have a system of own risk and contributions and offer facilities to compensate for this, with the care allowance, with specific customisation or with anti-cumulation. That's what we're doing now. If you want to bring use and payment even closer together, because it is so difficult to work with compensation, you actually need to have more fundamental discussions. Then you have to have a discussion about reducing or abolishing one's own risk or payments rather than making ceilings above each other that turn out to be wrong. We now have a system in which we have agreed on the level of our own risk and which takes into account people's own income situation; if necessary, they will be compensated. We do the same with our own contribution. Then we say: these are their own contributions and this is the table; depending on your income you pay this own contribution. That's pretty much optimized by now. If you want to go to a more direct system, you will have to go to a system with less own contribution or less own risk and you will have to finance it differently. That's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	The Christian Union does indeed opt for a lower risk of its own. But even so, I think that this will solve part of the problem and not the whole problem. In addition to its own risk, there are also its own contributions. Can the Secretary of State imagine that despite the existing anti-cumulative clause and the relationship with disposable income, which has already been built-in, there is still a build-up of own contributions through the multiple use of resources and facilities, which goes beyond what we are currently exchanging here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	That's right; that's what I was trying to tell you. We have tried, per own contribution category, to look as closely as possible at carrying capacity and income and sometimes also at capital. We do this at our own risk and at our own contribution. With this own contribution we also have anti-combination clauses. If you think the stacking is too much, you have to lower one or the other or both. It's possible. That costs money, and you have to make decisions for that. At your own risk, you talk about a total amount of 4.5 billion, and with your own contribution and customisation, you talk about an amount of about 350 million a year. I assume that this kind of consideration will be made at the formation table. Mrs Dijkstra asked if general practitioners in the treatment room have sufficient insight into what is possible at municipal level. Indeed, I talk regularly with general practitioners about care avoidance and the important role they can play in this. At the time, I carried out the investigation together with the LHV and the Consumers' Association, in order to involve those parties. We also continue to do this, especially with the general practitioners in disadvantaged areas. In general terms, it is also true that municipal policy and its possibilities are not always sufficiently known in the general practitioner's office. I am working with the GPs and the VNG to see how we can bring much more pregnant the possibilities in the social domain that the GP should know in the treatment room. That should also be in the plastic that every general practitioner uses when he wants to refer to. This includes the social domain reference. So that's what we're working on with the general practitioners. Mrs Keijzer asked how insurers use their own risk as a steering tool and whether this affects freedom of choice. I see this not in advance as a restriction on freedom of choice, but as an option that all insured persons have. It is often linked to a particular behavior variant. For example, if insurers want to promote prevention, they can link it to the fact that there is less risk of being involved in a prevention programme. Thus, if the insurer uses this instrument, it can help and is accessible to all insured persons. I am going to bring this to the attention of the insurers and see if the possibilities can be extended. I am slowly but surely seeing more and more examples of this practice. There was a specific question from Mr Nijboer. How much does it cost to keep your own risk at €385? He actually did some kind of prophecy. Suppose the risk is €450, what does it cost? If we look at the current multiannual figures and start autonomously from an increase in healthcare expenditure, it would cost around 750 million in 2021. However, this cabinet, and undoubtedly the next cabinet, will focus all efforts on controlling healthcare costs in general. It is therefore dangerous to make a prognosis of one's own risk linked to an increase in the cost of care, which we all want to control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you. I see that there is a need for a second term on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, who has one and a half minutes to tell us all kinds of beautiful things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. Having heard this debate, we are a little concerned. We had a nice election campaign, in which everyone, with the exception of two parties, very enthusiastically spoke firm language about abolishing or reducing their own risk. And now we have the weird situation that we have with a Secretary of State who says he has warm feelings for a proposal from a certain party colleague that leads to the elimination of one's own risk. That's profit, as far as we're concerned. So that's what we embrace. At the same time, we are dealing with two parties, GroenLinks and the CDA, which were very clear in the election campaign. One party wanted to eliminate its own risk and the other to reduce its own risk. But those two parties are forming now. I shall, to be sure, table a motion, as you are used to with the SP, in order to eliminate one's own risk. I would also like to appeal to GroenLinks and the CDA. It has happened many times, for example at the General's pardon, that before there was a new coalition agreement and a new cabinet was installed, there was a majority in the Chamber. I think that's wise now, too. I would point out that in this Chamber there is a very large majority in favour of drastically reducing one's own risk. We think this is the chance to settle it now. To that end, we shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that its own risk hampers people's access to care;]] [[considers that the elimination of its own risk improves access to care;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-818]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	This motion has been taken from our hearts. What Mrs Marijnissen says about the general's pardon is correct. The Chamber is missionary, facing a missionary cabinet. To prevent me from drawing as immediately as the same motion: would it be possible to sign with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mrs Agema, all support for our motion is welcome. If you wish to support our motion, you are most welcome. We can talk about signing in, but I think it's about supporting the motion. Then it's about the content, right? That seems to me to be the most important thing here. Anyone who wishes to support our good proposals is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	Measuring is something else. In order to prevent us from having so many different motions in the same way, as happened during the debate last week, and in order to prevent us from doing so at every debate, my question was whether I could participate, just like Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	We have tabled our motion as I have just read it. I think it's an incredibly good motion. Support from the PVV is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	This is a cordon sanitair of the SP, because the PVV is not allowed to sign and the Labour Party is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mrs Agema, I think we are very much in agreement on the content. I think it's a terrible shame to focus on things like the process. Again, you are very welcome to support our motion. I particularly call on the CDA and at least GroenLinks to support the motion; that is much more interesting, with all due respect to Mrs Agema. That would be a bit of support in the negotiations. I hope, Mrs Agema, that we can stand shoulder to shoulder together. I believe that the debate is mainly there at the moment, rather than between us. We agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr. Chairman. I didn't get an answer to a 50PLUS question. We found that the number of care avoiders increased. We asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to set concrete and ambitious objectives, to direct or to resign to his successor and to report on them in between. 50PLUS remains of the opinion that it should not matter which municipality you live in to get the right to care and support. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas support schemes for low-income people and care needs may vary from municipality to municipality;]] [[Whereas, in addition to this, many people are not aware of the possibilities;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the UNG, to achieve greater uniformity in these arrangements in order to increase their clarity and awareness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689,819]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas own risk and own contributions play a role in avoiding care;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to reduce care avoidance;]] [[points out that the profits of health insurance companies can be better used to reduce their own risk than to distribute profits to investors and/or shareholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689,820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	I have a question about the first motion, which refers to standardisation and greater awareness. We agree on the latter, but standardisation can also lead to people not getting the support they need. Municipalities can now apply customization and they can now look at their own population and their own inhabitants, and offer what is needed. If we are to standardise this, people can be prevented from falling short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	In contrast to the Secretary of State, who is very optimistic, we are pessimistic. In many municipalities it is a mess and therefore it matters for the support in which municipality you live. If you have both the same problems, you may get full support in one municipality and have to figure it out all by yourself in another municipality. We want this to be more uniform.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	The municipalities have municipal councils, which control the college. If a resident considers that he does not receive sufficient support from the municipality, he can address himself to the city council. My point is that, if we are to standardize it, we are hindering municipalities to deliver customization, and then people can really fall short, quite apart from the fact that we are going to be recent. Mrs Van Brenk did not go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	We do not share the opinion of the Christian Union. Customisation would be fine, but we differ on the assumption that the money we now give to the municipalities is well spent at all levels. We see very great differences. I commend the Secretary of State for going through a meeting with the UNG to try to show the good examples, but we see that the differences are very large at the moment. We call for more guidance from The Hague. That is why I made this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	I call Mrs Dik-Faber. No, you don't. There's another question for Mrs. Van Brenk. Mrs. Van Brenk, you keep walking back and forth. That's not my fault. You're gonna have to stand there for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr. Chairman. You say it's not your fault, but you didn't pay attention. Let's put it this way. It's okay, Mr. Chairman. No problem at all. In the second motion, Mrs Van den Brenn said that the profits of health insurance companies could be better used to reduce their own risk than to distribute profits to investors and/or shareholders. The Chamber has adopted a bill prohibiting the distribution of profits by health insurers. I wonder how this relates to this. Moreover, health insurers are not concerned with the amount of their own risk. I'm trying to place this motion; I'm trying to get to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	We would very much like to hear from the Court that it still supports the earlier ruling that profits are absolutely undesirable and that it wants to use any financial opportunity to finance the reduction of its own risk. We believe that this is a possibility, but we would like to hear a statement from the Chamber that it is still behind the point that benefits to health insurance companies are out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	I will leave it at that, because I find this statement very unclear. I cannot vote in this way for the reason Mrs Van den Brenn may want. I'd like to take another look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	My name is Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given to all the questions, including some of my group's questions. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to consult with the VNG on the issue of informing people by the social neighbourhood teams. After all, it is the social neighbourhood teams that come to people's homes and who are also able to inform people about the possibilities in their congregation. I also welcome the commitments that have been made on the knowledge about the own risk. I really hope that more and more people are aware of what is and is not under their own risk, because there are still many misunderstandings about it. Unfortunately, we did not agree on the issue of the accumulation of own contributions and the ceiling in them. I would therefore like to table a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain groups, such as chronically ill and disabled people, the elderly and low-income people, are often disproportionately affected by a build-up of healthcare costs;]] [[Whereas the accumulation of own risk and contributions by these groups is a serious problem;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with civil society organisations, to make a proposal for the maximisation of own contributions on the basis of disposable income;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	But there are ceilings on the own contributions for customization. That's what I think the CAK is counting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	There are indeed ceilings, but it is about the accumulation of own contributions that I would like to put a stop to. I have just had a little debate with the Secretary of State on this and he has also indicated that there are ceilings and own contributions based on income. Sometimes people face multiple own contributions plus their own risk based on the Health Insurance Act, and that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	Wouldn't it have been better for Mrs Dik to vote against the Wmo? This is because the difference between the various own contributions has been made and it has been decided that there may be a build-up. Would it not have been better for Mrs Dik to vote against abolishing the allowance for chronically ill people? To tell here with a loud voice how sad it all is, while it is the direct result of decisions you have made yourself, is a bit unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	I don't want to repeat the discussions. We had a discussion about the Wmo and the WTCG. Not everything the Christian Union wanted has been realized, but we have done a great deal to improve legislative proposals and could eventually go along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	Does Mrs Dik now admit that what she now says needs to be repaired is due to the choices made by Mrs Dik in the relevant laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	You should never close your eyes to the effects of legislation. At some point, as a Lower House, you make a decision. You do that based on the information you have at the time. If you then see in practice how the effects of a law descend on people, then I think you should not close your eyes and then make proposals to adapt it. And that's what I did today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his input. I conclude that we have not agreed on the size of the problem of avoiding care. The Secretary of State states that the number of people avoiding care has not increased. He is particularly counting on the groups that earn the lowest incomes, while we know that the group of the lower middle incomes, which is just outside the boat when it comes to supplements, has also been getting heavier and heavier. The signals we have received from general practitioners about all those people who refuse to go to medical specialists because of the costs certainly also relate to those lower middle incomes. I do hear the Secretary of State say, with me and with GroenLinks, that it is still a problem that people are not properly informed by the GP about what is or is not covered by their own risk. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Empire, the municipalities and health insurance companies are responsible for providing information and providing information on their own risks;]] [[noting that, despite the current information, there is still considerable uncertainty as to which care is and is not covered by its own risk;]] [[Whereas, as a result, people avoid visiting a doctor unnecessarily;]] [[calls on the Government, the flow of information and information on its own risk to intensify and report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	My question to Mrs Ellemeet is as follows. In the election campaign we found GroenLinks on our side to eliminate one's own risk. We sincerely hope that GroenLinks will succeed in bringing this into the formation. Is Mrs Ellemeet in favour of our proposal? I would remind her that there is a large, fat majority in the Chamber to at least reduce the risk. Once again, we hope that GroenLinks will succeed in abolishing it. Does Mrs Ellemeet think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to take care of this, now that the cabinet is decommissioned but not the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	I have been very clear in my comments. GroenLinks considers it extremely important that care costs are affordable for everyone. That has been our commitment over the past few years. That's what we've been hard on. It is also our commitment now, at the formation table. We have to do everything in time. We will always show ourselves to be a reliable partner when it comes to the commitment to manageable costs of caring for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	I think I understand very well what Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs GroenLinks are doing at the formation table. Again, we wholeheartedly support GroenLinks when it comes to abolishing one's own risk. Does she think it is a missed opportunity now that she knows that there is a large majority in the Chamber for drastically reducing one's own risk? Only two parties are not in favour of this. Then what's she gonna do to settle that with us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	I think it is a missed opportunity for the SP not to take responsibility for making a difference and making improvements in the country that can also benefit people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Dijkstra from the D66 group. No, she's quitting her speaking time. Mrs Keijzer isn't gonna say anything either. Mr. Nijboer? Yeah, he does. You don't have to, Mr Nijboer!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	No, Mr. Chairman, I owe you one! Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. The increase is 750 million if no care costs are incurred. There is therefore a great deal of cost to keep the risk at the same level alone. I am actually standing here to give some clarification to the chairman who was in charge of the first term. I said, "Hope is only for fishermen's wives." She did not know the expression; you may know it, Mr President. That expression is from Heijermans, out On hope of blessing, in which Kniertje sees a lot of family members perish. That's where the expression comes from: the hope that people would come back from the sea. It is an old Dutch booklet, which I have read before the course Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	But the fish is also paid dearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yeah, that expression comes from there, too. Maybe that expression also has to do with its own risk. However, it was a question of hoping that our own risk would be quickly buried, with us, like fishermen's women, on the sidelines in the hope that the formation parties would like to make a statement in that direction on Tuesday at voting time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	We're back in touch. Mr Kuzu also brought along a few proverbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll spare you that. Mr. Chairman. Continuing insight is of course always good. I am pleased that the PvdA's colleagues recognise that the risk of self-sufficiency leads to a lack of care. We will support Mrs Marijnissen's proposal, co-signed by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. During his reply, the Secretary of State stated that we had a point in relation to vulnerable groups that were not included in the investigation. We think it is important to bring these groups with us. That is why we want to give the Secretary of State and the Government, even though the government has been decommissioned, another brief order, namely to investigate it quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NIVEL's research into the impact of its own risk on care avoids is limited by the absence of the most vulnerable group of people in the study;]] [[Whereas this does not provide an overview of the impact of the own risk on the group of people most likely to be affected by the risk;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a quick scan of care avoids among vulnerable groups of people, including the impact of its own risk, and to share its results with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-823]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	I hope that this motion, if adopted, and the results of the investigation, will help to ensure that the parties that are currently forming and holding talks to this end will come forward with a proposal that would preferably eliminate their own risk altogether, but at least reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr Rutte has the floor now, but I can see that he is quitting his speaking time. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr. Chairman. Last week, after the debate on stocking standards in nursing homes, we saw that the Labour Party has lifted the cordon sanitary towards the PVV. I'm glad. No compliments for that, because I think that's perfectly normal. Today we'll see that we have one more thing with the SP. I'm very sorry I'm not allowed to sign in. I have made my contribution to abolishing one's own risk. In interrupting debates, I have clearly indicated how we feel about this, but I am now obliged to table the same motion. I am very sorry about that, but I would like to make an act by submitting the exact same text. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. Nijboer!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	I just want to note that we did indeed vote on the substance, but that the PVV Group rejected the motion on our part last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yes. I wanted to make a point at the time. So I am going to do that again, because Mrs Marijnissen also has a hand in excluding PVV's and that should only be over once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u189	Your motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u190	I'll read it to you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that its own risk hampers people's access to care;]] [[considers that the elimination of its own risk improves access to care;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal for the elimination of its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-824]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u191	And, of course, I hope that I can still sign that, because then this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u192	Very good. So much for the second term of office. Has the Secretary of State been able to answer? I can see that that is not the case and bark for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr. Chairman. It was a specific question from Mrs Van Brenk whether we would continue to look into the issue of the avoidance of care and whether we would regularly inform the Chamber about it. I want to do so in such a way that it does not require all kinds of additional efforts. We have just said that we are doing information, that we are continuing and sometimes intensifying it. I shall come back to that in the debate on the motions for resolutions. Of course, we will continue to report to the Chamber on this. I now come to an explanation of the motions. In the motion in part No. 818 the government is invited to come forward with a proposal for the elimination of its own risk. That is a repeat of the debate we had last week on another subject. I do not think that the Chamber can expect even this passionate Secretary of State on this subject to come forward with a proposal from the cabinet in the outgoing state. That means that the Chamber must really make that assessment itself. For that reason, because of the government's deportational status, I have to discourage that motion. In the motion in part No. 819 the government is invited to achieve greater uniformity. I would also advise against this motion for very substantive reasons. We have made a number of decisions about the own risk and contribution, with whole tables showing how income-related they are. Those are uniform arrangements. In the discussion we had about the affordability of it, we said: we really need a whole head on it, in which you can fine tune according to the personal circumstances. We'll share that with the WTCG, with any objections. We said: let us leave that to the municipalities, which can see how this is done for their own people in their own way. So I would be against making that uniform again. Customisation was precisely the aim of placing it with the municipalities. That's why I'd like to discourage that motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 820 on the profits of health insurance companies. There are a number of arguments. First of all, health insurers are not about their own risk. That's what the legislator is about. Secondly, there is a bill on the distribution of profits by health insurance companies, and thirdly, the profits of health insurance companies have been used in the past, and I hope in the future too, mainly to moderate premiums. We'd like to keep it that way. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then we have the motion in part no. 821. I have tried to indicate what we have now in the debate. There are ceilings, on the one hand at the Wlz and the Wmo, with tables and income-related, and on the other hand at the own risk of compensation in the care allowance. Now you can have both at the same time. That's the stacking argument, but it doesn't help to set a new ceiling for that, because then you actually have to talk about what those ceilings are like now, then you actually have a judgment on the ceilings of today. There's anti-cumulation, there's ceilings now. If you want to do something about the accumulation, you either have to talk in principle about the level of one's own risk, or talk in principle about the level of one's own contribution. That seems to me to be something that is or is not discussed at the formation table. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 822 the government is invited to intensify the flow of information and information on its own risk and to report on this to the Chamber. I have already said that we are very much in the process of working together with other groups, but also very specifically on how we can further intensify and improve this information. I therefore consider this motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber. Then we have the motion in part no. 823. With a quick scan of hard-to-reach groups you have the problem of that difficult accessibility. I have announced that I would like to work with the general practitioners, including in disadvantaged areas, to see how we can get a better view of these hard-to-reach groups. A motion has just been tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Keijzer to intensify information. I would like to take this request with me and, for this reason, I would like to make the motion on item No. 823 here dissuade. Finally, the motion in part No. 824. That's the same motion as the motion in part No. 818 and the same judgment applies. Finally. I just heard that hope is for fishermen's wives. I didn't know that expression either. She came out, I believe. Hope of blessing. We prefer to talk about butter with the fish in formation time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u194	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u195	So much for this debate. I thank the Secretary of State; he can stay for a while. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday.
