ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber. It's the first time he's come here to defend a bill in his new position. I wish him a great deal of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u2	I give the floor to Mr Earthema, who is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It has to take a break, but during football games some very special things happen during the break. Minister, thank you also for coming here for this debate. It's only been a few weeks since you've sworn me in, Madam President. So I haven't been here that long, but I'm afraid I have to adjust the image I had of this Chamber. Rethinking whether a legislative proposal meets the criteria does not apply in the present case. This bill was adopted on 5 December last in the House of Representatives with a letter from the Minister wishing to approve it just before the end of the year. It is very likely that the pricing of renewable energy storage will still have to be re-launched. But now about the content: the energy bill. It's going to rise hugely and the citizens are in the cold. For the sake of clarity, this is an energy tax, not the energy itself, but the tax on it. Almost half of the energy bill, such as citizens who pay, consists of taxes on electricity and gas supplied; half. And those taxes are going up and up. One million households already live in energy poverty. They can barely afford the energy bill. Energy suppliers have recently informed their customers by letter of the expected increase. Perhaps colleagues here this week also received such a letter about it on the bus. I've risked a few calls from energy suppliers; it's raining complaints. In addition to the many people who already have a payment arrangement, there are about 150,000...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition to energy taxes and VAT, entrepreneurs pay ODE, i.e. storage of renewable energy. So that is taxation of renewable energy, rather: windmill tax. The financial proceeds from the ODE are used to subsidise renewable energy. Unprofitable renewable energy, to be understood. That's why there's got to be a subsidy. Dozens of billions of euros in the coming years. In this case, subsidising is another word for "squeezing out the citizen for this expensive hobby." In his response to our questions, the Minister simply admits that the Dutch contribution is only marginal. But it's obviously about the idea. According to this cabinet, an average household will pay about €92 extra tax for renewable energy, the ODE, in the coming year. That is already a doubling compared to this year, and that is not the end of it. The windmill tax, this ODE, will continue to rise to more than €200 in 2023. In the most favourable case, because during the examination of the Tax Plan, the Secretary of State for Finance said that an increase in energy costs as a result of the Paris agreements has not yet been taken into account. This means that an additional 400 million will have to be raised in the coming years. So my first question to this Minister is whether he is going to leave this rise in the rate of ODE, or whether this is just the tip of the iceberg, because later effects of the Paris Agreement still have to be encrypted in it. In a note from your predecessor, Mr Kamp, it states that a downward adjustment of the rate of ODE will require the mobilisation of resources from the budget reserve in order to cover the cash costs of SDE+. There is, however, a very important sentence behind this: a decision on this matter is up to a subsequent cabinet. And you, Mr Wiebes, are part of this next cabinet. So you could also reduce the expenditures of SDE+. Why don't you? The same note from your predecessor states that the purchasing power of households with lower incomes is not taken into account. It's just shameless in there. And let that be the citizens who are no longer able to pay the towering energy bill. And especially those people with that lower income have no money to take compensatory measures, such as the purchase of solar panels. Or they live in a rental house. According to the Housing Union, a million tenants are in poorly isolated homes. If the landlord can't or won't take any action, then there's only one thing these people can do, and that's turn off the heat. In your own reply, too, you ignore our concerns and insist that we are talking about a balanced purchasing power policy for all. Mr. Chairman. With the forthcoming increase in the ODE tariff, the citizens of this country in particular are the losers. People with a minimum wage or AOW have to pay with them, whether they can or not. Does the Minister have any insight into the consequences of the rising energy bill? Can the Minister imagine that many simply cannot do this? How many people get late payments? Does the Minister have an idea of this and what is he going to do about it? How far does the Minister intend to increase the energy bill until many citizens are literally in the cold or in the dark? However, this law still needs to be pushed through as quickly as possible. Because, Minister, this law is referendable. This means that according to Article 8 of the Advisory referendum Act, the ODE rates can only enter into force eight weeks after publication in the Official Journal. But apparently this minister can't wait that long. He wants the rates to apply as early as 1 January. People are eager to squeeze the citizens as quickly as possible. Finally, Madam President, as far as the Freedom Party is concerned, this windmill tax goes to zero. Just get rid of that trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u4	Thank you, Mr. Earthema. Would you stand still for a moment? Mr. Earthema, fan deer lokwinske on yo maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u5	Allow me to outline some of your background. You were born in Smallingerland and still live there. A Frisian at heart. Not without reason I begin my congratulations to you at the Frisian. You took the oath at the Frisian. You didn't do that so long ago, October 31st. You will temporarily replace your colleague Mr Van Beek. You started your career at the Royal Marechaussee in 1980. From there in 1987 you made the switch to the Police North Netherlands, where you have been employed to date. At the Police North Netherlands you are the coordinator of crime team in your hometown Drachten, stating that you were voluntarily turned off this autumn because membership of the First Chamber and working with the police are incompatible. Since 2011, you have been a member of the Provincial States of Fryslân. In 2014 you became group chairman for your party, the PVV. You have fulfilled this function so far. In Provincial States, you are spokesperson for Government, Environment, Space and Living. In the 2015 campaign, you mentioned the fight against wind farms as your most difficult dossier, because I quote: "Many people have the impression that wind energy is good, while the facts contradict this." In addition to your work with the police and in politics, you are also active as the owner of a paramotor shop and as a flight instructor. Your social and political experience predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber. We wish you every success in doing so. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have done so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u6	I now give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a recessed debate. That is why I had not prepared a long speech. I would have liked to have had a longer discussion with the Minister. I hope that we will do so again in the future: take the time to consult each other in writing and here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The SP is strongly in favour of a strong commitment to renewable energy; let there be no misunderstanding about that. But then we have to share the burden fairly. According to the SP, that is not the case here. We warmly welcome the 'polluter pays' principle, but that is not the case. After all, companies cause the greatest environmental and climate damage and households are allowed to pay just as much as that industry. In response to questions for a different, fairer distribution of those charges............................................................................................................................................................................. Instead of going along with a shift in the burden, this government chooses to fest the Shells of this world, because the Plan Office for the Environment has once again calculated for us that 55% of the total use of energy is not taxed. In addition, the Planning Bureau says that taxation of final consumption is less effective than taxation at the production stage. These are firm conclusions from the planning agency: taxing end-users or households is not effective. We're chasing the wrong people on expense. This is not effective for the energy transition and also reduces the support for that transition. What is the Minister's response to that report from the Planning Bureau? Mr. Chairman. Again, of course, the SP also wants to speed up the transition to green energy, but this is not the way for a sustainable society. There is no question of the polluter paying. In fact, in addition to all kinds of exemptions, the most polluting companies also have a tariff for electricity that is almost 100 times lower than the rate for families. And it is precisely those companies that are responsible for most CO emissions. Why are these companies not being encouraged to produce more energy efficient? Instead, the more they consume, the cheaper it becomes. According to SP, that's the world upside down. To support the energy transition, it is essential that the lusts and burdens are fairly distributed. These burdens are now far too great for households who have little desire for them. In addition, the cabinet pays the bill precisely for small and medium-sized enterprises. The SP does not want an elite but an honest energy transition. The ODE was meant to pay for that energy transition at the time of its introduction. Now the storage turns on funding for the disposal of pollution by large companies, brought up by families, because with that income CCS, so bringing CO under ground, is paid. This leaves less money for the real promotion of renewable energy. Mr. Chairman. Many households currently have no choice. They can't bring down their energy bill. For example, residents of social housing cannot choose to generate renewable energy themselves. They're stuck and paying the bill. Many houseowners with low or average income will have less money left as a result of the increase in the energy account. So they have less money to make sustainable. That's ineffective as far as we're concerned. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, the SP is strong for sustainability and welcomes a transition to green energy, but costs are not properly distributed. As far as we're concerned, that's where the pain is. I am, of course, looking forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u8	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I'm looking at the minister: are you able to answer directly? That's the case. I'll give you the cathedral now. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u9	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Earthema has made it clear that he has some difficulty with the pace of this. He actually says that everything is going very quickly in the Chamber where reflection should take place. I think Mrs. Meijer said the same thing in some of the more over-inspired terms. I believe that the two Members of this Chamber are quite right. It is true that this is an adjustment as there are so many in our financial and fiscal system. There is an annual adjustment of charges. This is not part of the Tax Plan, but bringing it into the Tax Plan would mean the same rush. So this is a rhythm in which this has to be done. I think that would normally be a reassuring comment, but with Mr Earthema it is only oil on the fire that this is basically about unchanged policies. Nothing has changed in this regard by the recent coalition agreement. But, yes, that nothing has changed, is the pain with him. I'm not gonna comfort him with that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Earthema actually has a lot of trouble with the fact that we are starting this energy transition at all: 'a very expensive hobby'. I don't see it that way. What we're doing here is getting this generation, as well as next generations, to clean up their own mess. I always compare it with the behavior that so many Dutch people actually exhibit. By far most Dutch people don't worry about flickering their garbage bags down the balcony, because they know that their garbage will end up with someone else. Even though their contribution to the garbage heap is very small, they still behave nicely. That's what we do as a country. So we too do not throw our garbage bags over the hedge to a next generation. We clean them up ourselves, even if our contribution to the climate is limited, because we are a small country. So that's why we're doing this. Then the question is how. We opt for a storage on the energy used. In the direction of Mr Earthema: no, that is not an energy tax. Energy taxation is something else. This really is a storage of renewable energy, which we establish and which is used to finance the climate transition. That's the way it is. He asks why we no longer take low incomes into account. We'll do it another way. Look, it's clear that low and high incomes spend very different parts of their income on certain expenses. This is not only the case with energy and the cost of the energy transition, but also with food or transport. It can also be the case with living. That is why we have a system in the Netherlands that we talk about every August in the cabinet, and then with the Tax Plan very comprehensively with both Chambers. That's taking good care of the income charts. We do not therefore compensate for this at the level of individual measures. Sometimes we do; we have a rent supplement, but we do not have an energy surcharge or an energy transition supplement. We have a tax system that, whether you are sad about it or happy about it, takes into account low incomes and that low incomes are spared by the progressiveness of rates and the general tax reduction. This is all included in the purchasing power picture. This is therefore taken into account, but it is taken into account overall rather than per individual measure. Then it may still be that someone, for example, is unable to take saving measures. That could be imagined at low incomes, not because it is not profitable but because people do not have the facilities for that. That is why it is important in the climate agreement that landlords and corporations also invest in sustainability. Finally, we also have a humane closure policy, which ensures that people are not quickly cut off from energy; my predecessor has interfered rather intensively in this. But all in all, of course, it is the fact that we have to guarantee purchasing power at that level and that in this coalition agreement every group is making progress. It's important what that feels like. Mrs Meijer was right to talk about the basis of support. That's what makes her worry me, because that's important. I myself think that there is a group, Mr. Earthema might be one of those that we will not talk about soon. That is also their right; they are not convinced of it. There is also a group that wants to go through the transition at any cost and doesn't worry about the money. In the middle is a very large group of people who really think that we should behave responsibly but are not prepared to pay the high costs immediately. Let's just be honest: there are a lot of people who think it is necessary, but with whom the migration leaves quickly if they really have to pay a lot of extra money. That's why we need to control the costs. Mrs Meijer adds something to that. She asks about the division between companies and citizens. We don't just see the costs in the energy bill. We see them in all kinds of fields. We see the cost through the power bill. That's what's happening now. That's what we're talking about today. But you can also see these costs in the future through taxes, through rent, through the cost of products and through the cost to your own home. In many ways, these social costs come to us, somewhere in businesses or with citizens. It is good to realise that the contradiction between businesses and citizens is a bit of a sham contradiction. After all, the costs of companies end up in the cost of products, and then eventually we pay them. It is inevitable that we, people, Dutch, will eventually bear the cost of the transition. Irrevocable, we do so in one capacity or another, of taxpayers, consumers, energy users, pensioners or car drivers. Somehow we're paying those costs anyway. That is why it is important, on the one hand, that we reduce these costs and, on the other hand, that we look very carefully at the purchasing power figures every autumn to see how it works. We could burden the companies more heavily, as Mrs Meijer proposes. It refers in particular to energy-intensive industries. This is about the higher discs, the big consumers, who pay less. At first, that is not a strange idea at all, unless it leads to large companies moving away from the Netherlands. What happens then? Then those industries go abroad. There they continue to emit as much or more CO, but in the meantime we have lost the jobs. All in all, the division between businesses and citizens is, in a sense, a sham contradiction. My commitment is to keep costs as low as possible and to keep an eye on how this distribution should be. In this respect, I have promised the House of Representatives to update the investigation into how this affects the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u10	Now I hear him again: the companies leave the Netherlands if we tax them too much. Is the Minister also going to find out at what point companies leave the Netherlands in the investigation he has promised to the House of Representatives? We have heard before that companies would leave the Netherlands. And that's why we had to give them 1.4 billion. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u11	That is a completely different point. What I'm going to do is compare the level playing field based on energy costs for different industries. I've done that before. It's useful to do that again. We'll see what conclusions come from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u12	I think I asked very clearly: are you going to take that point why companies decide to leave the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u13	That's not so good for me to predict. We only know that if the playing field is uneven, fewer companies will settle in the Netherlands and more existing companies will leave the Netherlands. When exactly that's true, it's impossible for me to predict. But I'm sure it's something very important to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u14	Mrs. Meijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u15	Finally, I have to say that if the Minister cannot predict that it will happen, he should not use it as an argument either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u16	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to do something about that. If I can't predict exactly but can see that the playing field is uneven, should I not take it into account? That makes very high demands on the exact predictability of what is going to happen. I would not like to deal with our industry in this way, quite recklessly. We all know that if a company actually threatens to leave the Netherlands, the parliament and the government are initially distraught about it and will do everything in their power to keep that company here. By the way, I have lost an important part of my time with that myself. I'd be happy to, because I'd like to keep the jobs here. But that also means that we should not make it too difficult for companies. We have to make the distribution as it can be. But I would like to be very careful about risking employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u17	Mr. Earthema, you have to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u18	I didn't know that a minute ago. Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you used a metaphor for the purchasing power picture. As far as food is concerned, I can imagine rich people having a steak and poor people having a frikandel, although it may not be so healthy. But with energy, poor people or people with lower incomes can only turn off the stove. Do you agree with me? You haven't answered that yet. I have a second question, if I may, Madam President. The Minister has not yet answered the question as to what impact it would have on the Paris agreements. In other words, is it just the tip of the iceberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u19	The purchasing power policy is precisely that people do not have to turn off their stove. That's why these purchasing power cards are made. Then people don't have to turn off their stove. And I don't interfere with what everyone eats. Mr Earthema will discover that there are very different ideas in this Chamber about the diets that apply. But we're not gonna talk about that right now. Is it the tip of the iceberg? We can see that there is an increasing series, which ultimately means that a larger contribution from households is expected for renewable energy. At the same time, consumption is decreasing. As far as gas is concerned, this has been the case for many years. Part of it compensates for each other. During this cabinet period there is still a certain increase in the account, but when the transition is further advanced, it may well be that the account goes down again, because the new techniques are also much cheaper. Let me give an example of what Mr Earthema will like. Five years ago, the cost of wind energy at sea was €0.14 and now at €0.04. That's going really fast. This type of productivity improvement is hopefully to be expected in more areas, so that we will all soon be able to have sufficient and sufficiently affordable energy in our household.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u20	I don't know if those numbers are right. I don't think they're entirely correct. Anyway, maybe more about that later. You yourself say: the prices of the energy itself are going to fall. But you also say, if I have heard correctly, that in the overall picture prices are going to rise in the coming years. Did I hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u21	Yes. The energy transition costs money. At the same time, household energy consumption is falling. In the first instance, this creates a certain rise. There is no denying that the energy transition costs money. It is my commitment to keep that as low as possible, because I aim to achieve our ambitious CO target in the most efficient way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u22	You're at the end of your first-term answer, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u24	Let me now give you an opportunity for a second term. I understand that Mrs Meijer still wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's going really fast now. I have two more questions for the Minister. It started out very hopefully. The minister said, "We make sure generations clean up their own mess." I think that's a fantastic principle. But who's causing this mess anyway? Those are the companies that are not being tackled now, which are encouraged to use a lot of energy because "the more you use, the less you pay"? In other words, explain again the 'polluter pays' principle and also the sense that we allow generations to clean up their own mess. Furthermore, the Minister says that everyone is improving. That's right, but the lowest incomes are the least and the highest incomes are the most. I was just saying in the interruption that the companies are getting a $1.4 billion present. But the people who earn the least, generally live in the least sustainable homes and thus pay the most for their energy. I would like this Minister to come up with a solution to make their homes more sustainable, so that they can make a decent, decent contribution to greening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u26	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. You'll answer immediately in second term? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u27	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Meijer said it started so well, with every generation cleaning up their own mess. I thought Mrs Meijer also started very well, because she said: not elitist but honest. You can't argue with that. I am in favour of this, but we are going through that principle until employment actually disappears. Eventually, it's a sham contradiction. We are trying to put it where consumption is, but we are not prepared to drive companies away. Is that supposed to last forever? No, because I think we are seeing a period in which we will be able to introduce a CO levy. If a CO levy works well worldwide or across Europe, we will see a level playing field much sooner. In this level playing field, it will also slowly become possible for large consumers to pay equally to the levy. We're not there yet. I am not prepared to get rid of the jobs, but I think we will see more opportunities in the future than we are now for a direct transfer of the energy used. So I certainly endorse the principle that she puts forward. Should the lowest incomes also see opportunities for sustainability? Yeah, definitely, of course. If we were to say that sustainability is something for higher incomes, then we are simply engaged in an incomplete energy transition. I can't. We can't afford that either. Houses in which people with lower incomes live, for example the nearly 2.5 million corporate homes, will have to participate. In the end, by 2050, we will have to see that we can achieve an 80% to 95% reduction in CO emissions. Then it is inevitable that all these homes will have to participate, including those in which people live on lower incomes. So that is what we really need to achieve in the forthcoming climate agreement. That must be set in motion because it cannot, in Mr. Earthema's words, be a hobby or, in your words, just something for the higher incomes. We can't have that. So I agree with Mrs Meijer. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I didn't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-18.u29	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal at the end of the sitting tonight.
