ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I would first like to devote two sentences to Hurricane Irma, because the people in the Caribbean Netherlands are more concerned with this at the moment. I would like to thank the government through this minister for the extra effort that has been made in that direction. The previous hurricane in 1995 caused victims, including deadly victims, and a great deal of material damage. How in the Caribbean Netherlands elections to the First Chamber will take place may not be quite top or mind for the people who are now on the islands. While looking back at the preparation, I discovered that Mr Segers' maiden speech was on this subject. I am therefore very interested in the contribution of the Christian Union to this debate. I wonder if there is one and what it will consist of. Before I discuss the Constitution further, my first question is to the Minister whether he can give us an update on the implementation of the Ganzevoort et al motion. asking for a social minimum for Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. What has reached me in my e-mail is that will not be any different for colleagues. It is persistent concern about adequate facilities and the question: a minimum of existence, what is that and how do we arrange it on the islands? What is now on the agenda is the second reading of a proposal to create a constitutional basis for Caribbean public bodies and for stepped-up representation of the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. Of course, I think it is very important, I assume that all the parties here agree that the democratic rights of everyone in this Kingdom are regulated in an equivalent way. It's complicated. There has been a lot of debate on that. As far as my party is concerned, the solution chosen is an option to be supported. We also supported them at first reading. We'll do the same on this one. But we do have questions about it. The intention was to reduce the peace in the Kingdom with 10-10-10 and to meet the wishes of the people of the former Netherlands Antilles. We all know that some of the islands were given far-reaching autonomy and that, in the absence of clear possibilities, a number of them became particularly public bodies. And that wasn't anchored. The expectations on the islands were that this would clarify the question: what legislation will come when we move in our direction; are our standards of security of existence going up? I concluded that from conversations and emails, because at that time I was certainly not a spokesperson in this area. I regret to note that, to date, there is still no clarity on a timetable, which is the question of which legislation comes when. Perhaps this Minister could also say something about this today. What is an adequate level of provision? The expectation was that there would be. Everyone understands that you don't get that from one day to the next. But we're now close to "seven years after." It's almost 10-10-17. Surely you would expect more progress to have been made in more areas than there really have been? Some of the people who are here today as spokesmen have been there. Some people have been there a lot. There is progress in some areas, but still not... For example, if you look at the evaluation carried out by the Spies Committee, you will see that those recommendations are there. So there is actually two disappointments: first there is disappointment about the expectations around 10-10-10 and then there is disappointment about what happened with the recommendations following the evaluation of Spies. So short and good: my picture is that the expectations of the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands have not been fulfilled. The BES Islands lived on the assumption that, on the basis of a certain equivalence, the political relations would be fulfilled and, above all, a significant improvement in living conditions on the islands would be achieved. I wonder if the Minister agrees with me. GroenLinks believes that it is now high time to let the inhabitants and drivers of the Caribbean Netherlands know exactly what they are up to, what they can count on and at what rate an acceptable level of provision is being implemented. It must be clear when, on the basis of the Constitution, everyone in the Kingdom is treated the same. It must also be clear on the basis of which criteria can be differentiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	I call Mr Koopmans. I said that speaking time was four minutes, but that is different from group to group. It's legislation and the spokesmen have filled in how much time they think they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs Van Tongeren, I would first like to express my sympathy on behalf of my group with all the people on Saint Martin, Saint Eustatius and Saba who are now dealing with the enormous power of the great Hurricane Irma. We're all thinking about them now. It is good to know that the government is doing its utmost to provide all the help it needs. Then there's the bill. The VVD is in favour of a commonwealth of the Netherlands and the Caribbean islands on the basis of their own responsibility. As long as we don't have it, things have to be well organized. This applies both to the constitutional status of the political system of the islands and to the right to vote for the First Chamber. The VVD therefore supports the legislative proposal to replace territorial public bodies in the Constitution. The sensitive issue today is the right to vote for the First Chamber. Non-Dutch people currently have the right to vote for the island councils. These island councils can therefore not participate in the elections to the Upper House. Non-Dutch citizens cannot have the right to vote for the Senate. That is why it is necessary for the islands to have a separate electoral college for the elections to the First Chamber. The present bill also makes that possible. The VVD wants to prevent this leading to more elections, more bureaucracy and more waste of costs. We therefore call for a solution that is as efficient as possible, such as the creation of an electoral college without separate elections and without separate officials. This is just a suggestion, an idea. For example, it should be considered whether the elections to the island councils can distinguish between the ballots of the Dutch and those of non-Dutch citizens. Then you could count the ballots of the Dutch for the composition of the electoral college that in turn assembles the First Chamber. This brings me to my question. I only have one. Will the government ensure that the most efficient solution is found in the drafting of the implementing law? Can it build on our suggestion to distinguish between Dutch and non-Dutch votes when counting the island council votes? Finally. The VVD would like things to be well organized. That is why we are in favour of the amendment of the Constitution, and that is why we are in favour of a separate electoral college. Non-Dutch people should not have any influence on the composition of the States-General. However, the electoral college must be set up efficiently and no additional bureaucracy must be imposed. I'm closing up. Good luck to all the people who are now on the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	I am rather surprised at the VVD's proposal to distinguish between ballots for Dutch and non-Dutch. You get a personal ballot with your name on it that you have to turn in, which makes it traceable how you voted. I think there are quite a few safeguards in our different laws not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	Distinctive voting by nationality is not the same as distinguishing between individual ballots. We are now saying that it is an opportunity to deal with this efficiently. We ask the Minister to investigate how this could work. I assume that Mrs Van Tongeren agrees that we need something efficient and that we should not burden people with much more elections and more bureaucracy. We want something efficient and ask the Minister to consider whether this suggestion could work and whether there might be even better ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	Does the VVD intend to do the same in the Netherlands? Also in our municipal elections we have Dutch and non-Dutch. Perhaps the VVD even wants to help the PVV by distinguishing between people of Turkish origin and with Moroccan origin and to record that on the ballot. Isn't that contrary to the anonymity of voting rights? You can't register where someone's from, can you? I'm assuming the VVD agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr President, may I make a personal statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u10	It is suggested that my party would like to distinguish in elections between Turkish people and non-Turkish people. That's absolutely apekraut. It's about the Antilles today. Don't bring in everything that isn't going on and what's totally untrue, Mrs. Van Tongeren. On the first day of the parliamentary year this kind of monkey!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr Van Raak, do you have a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u12	Not personally. I would, however, like to say that I think it is inappropriate for a representative of the VVD to ask whether a practical solution can be found, and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance suggests that there are all sorts of dubious intentions behind this. I do not think that is appropriate for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u13	The principle may be clear: non-Dutch should not vote for the Upper House or the Lower House. Mrs Van Tongeren will also agree. That principle is paramount. We need to see how we can do that, when there will be island councils in which non-Dutch people have the right to vote. How can we ensure that the elections to the First Chamber, which could somehow be linked to those island councils, do not give non-Dutch citizens the opportunity to influence the Upper Chamber? I am convinced that Mrs Van Tongeren agrees with me that we must prevent this. You can prevent that by holding separate elections. Perhaps you can prevent it by saying that some ballots are for people who are allowed to count for the First Chamber and some ballots are not. It's a practical suggestion. Of course, I reject any suggestion that we want to distinguish between individuals or groups of people here. We do not want that at all, and I did not say that. Let's make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group strongly supports this change in the Constitution. With this amendment, the BES Islands will be given a place in our Constitution. May I, on behalf of 50PLUS, give a warm constitutional welcome to Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba? Important rights are laid down for public bodies, such as the right to public education and the right, which, although not everyone will be waiting for and awake from, to elect the First Chamber in a similar way as the Dutch live in the European part of the Netherlands. We call for rapid introduction, so that the islands can make timely preparations, prior to the First Parliament elections in 2019. It is good that the BES islands are now given a constitutional basis, but of course we are not there yet. There's growing discontent on the islands. Our electoral programme says that this discontent must now finally be taken seriously. It is about combating poverty, including by bringing the AOW and the AOV to an acceptable level. The fight against crime and corruption must be pursued. And the level of provision of the islands must be brought to a level that meets the expectations and commitments made seven years ago. The 50PLUS Group will also address this issue to the new cabinet and insist on real solutions. Finally, I too would like to join the previous speakers Van Tongeren and Koopmans and wish the inhabitants of Saba, Saint-Eustatius and Saint-Maarten very, very much strength. Hurricane Irma is now scaled up to category five. I hope that everyone will be safe and that the damage will be limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the second reading of a constitutional change. But I too would like to start with the topicality of the Upper Wind Islands and to offer all the people there a great deal of strength in resisting, dealing with Hurricane Irma. Let's hope that it's not too bad for all of them personally at least. I would also like to thank the government for the extra help it has been given. Since the political adjustment of 10-10-10, the Netherlands consists of a European and a Caribbean part. However, the Caribbean part, consisting of Saba, Bonaire and Saint Eustatius, is not yet fully anchored. The present amendment will change this and the islands will be given a constitutional basis in our Constitution. That's good. But there is a great deal of uncertainty among the inhabitants of the islands about the differentiation clause that is also included in the Constitution. The legal text states: "These public bodies may be regulated and other specific measures taken in view of particular circumstances which make them substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands." First of all, I would like once again to confirm to the Minister that the inclusion of this principle of differentiation in no way undermines Article 1 of the Constitution, which lays down the principles of equality. Secondly, I would like to confirm that this provision does not change Article 1 of the Statute, which lays down a more comprehensive differentiation basis. There is nothing to be done about that. Of course, the regulations require tailor-made work for the Caribbean Netherlands. To give just one example: our rules on competition between energy providers cannot be applied to an island where only one energy company has a monopoly. However, it is crucial to clarify the criteria used to determine when and when regulation is not applicable to the Caribbean Netherlands. So on what basis is this case-by-case assessment made? This need for clarity applies not only to new legislation, but also to the old laws inherited by the Caribbean Netherlands from before 10-10-10. Which laws are being modernised and which are not being modernised, with what timetable, and what does the final picture look like? D66 also considers it important that it does not happen ad hocly, by ministry, but that this is unambiguous, across all ministries. For example, why is the Education BES Act always adapted to the new education regulations and does not do so in social matters? The evaluation in the Spies report showed that some ministries have been very active in the Caribbean Netherlands and that Social Affairs has left much behind. Some islanders have given this a sense of arbitrariness. That cannot be the intention! It is logical and inevitable that legislative restraint should be exercised and that we should not pour an enormous flood of new and adapted regulations across the islands in a short space of time. But now, seven years after the new state relations, inhabitants of the islands need more clarity about the future of regulation and its related provisions. Does the Minister agree? How can this be ensured? During the first reading of this constitutional amendment, the right to vote for the First Chamber was one of the hot issues. Because Caribbean Netherlands does not belong to a province, it was problematic to guarantee the islanders' right to vote for the First Chamber. There was a dilemma. Also people without a Dutch passport but living on the islands have the right to vote for the island council, as in the European Netherlands with the city council. If the island councils were to have the right to vote in the First Chamber instead of the Provincial States, people without Dutch nationality would have an influence on the composition of the Upper Chamber. We didn't want to. But if people without a Dutch passport were no longer allowed to vote for the island council, you would deprive many people of the opportunity to decide on their own immediate living environment. You don't want to. I am glad that, in the end, due to the commitment of many people, I would like to thank in particular my own Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats with the electoral college for a workable solution that reflects both principles. I would like to thank the Minister very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with mixed feelings. The people of Saba, Saint-Eustatius and Saint-Maarten are currently in great fear. We don't yet know exactly when the hurricane will reach the islands.That will happen in a few hours, tonight Dutch time, but the omens are very bad and remind us of terrible hurricanes in the past. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to support the islands. I assume that his ministry and the other ministries will monitor the matter and provide assistance as soon as possible. Perhaps in his term, if the President allows it, the Minister will be able to tell us about the measures he has taken. On 10 October 2010, Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire became part of the Netherlands. I believe that I am the only one here who has experienced this debate. I also know that the expectations here in politics, in the Chamber, were piled up very high at the time. That, I think, has led to so much disappointment now. For a lot of people on the islands, the situation has not improved, but has just got worse. That has nothing to do with us investing so little. It has to do with the situation we are in. It has to do with the fact that three beautiful Caribbean islands, small islands in terms of population, have to be run from about ten ministries in The Hague. That's not really possible. We also know this can't be done. I think it will be very important for the future, also for a new government, to try to make it work and to ensure that the islands can do as much as possible themselves. Where this cannot be done, the Netherlands, or the European Netherlands, must do it. We also need to make very clear agreements on how we can fulfil a responsibility, if that is the case. Together with colleague Remkes of the VVD, the SP specifically drew attention to a problem that is also on the table here today, namely the election of the First Chamber. If you make such a strange, yet remarkable state-law construct, you will also have remarkable, strange constitutional problems. The members of the Provincial States elect the First Chamber, but Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire are not part of a province. There is something to be said for that, but who then chooses the members of the Supreme Court on their behalf? It was thought that the island council members, the council members of the islands, could do so. But it has already been noted a few times today that local elections are taking place, as everywhere in the Netherlands, also non-Dutch. It cannot be the case that non-Dutch people have an influence on the composition of the States-General and the Upper House. What do you do? Are you saying that non-Dutch people are no longer allowed to vote on the islands? No, because that is absolutely not what the people on the islands want. Are you saying that the people on the islands are no longer allowed to vote indirectly in the Upper House? That's not really possible either. It's a bit of a crazy situation. We have all come up with a rather insane solution: their electoral college. But I'm sure that's the only solution. The influence of this electoral college on the composition of the First Chamber will be special, special, very small, because there are very few people living on Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire. In many ways it is therefore a theoretical issue. That is why I agree with the VVD spokesman: we must try to solve this as practically as possible. You could say that a electoral college of the three islands together is a bit larger, but then too, the influence on the composition of the First Chamber is one of them behind the decimal place. I am therefore very much in favour of creating an electoral college for Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire apart. I am not in favour of holding separate elections, even when I see how much interest there is in the islands for the election of the members of the House of Representatives. They're gonna be a bit of a weird election. I therefore ask the Minister to think about how we can solve this as practically as possible, how we can do it in a respectful manner and preferably without separate elections. Perhaps a distinction can already be made in the counting process between the composition of the island council and the electoral college. We are already a little ahead of the law, but I think we should also hear what kind of people are going to be in that separate electoral college today. Are those island council members or not? If so, are they perhaps island council members who are non-Dutch? How does the Minister see that? I imagine that someone who is a member of that electoral college thinks: we are going to cast a vote, but that vote still counts for nothing. Can we perhaps do a little better on expectations management this time, letting these people know that what they are doing is very important and that it must be done, but that it is not that influential?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already mentioned it: the people of the Upper Wind Islands are currently threatened by a hurricane that is classified into the toughest category. We're holding on to our hearts. We too would like to express our gratitude to the Minister for the help he has offered. We trust that he will monitor them closely and, if necessary, do more about them. The CDA Group supports the government's desire to provide the constitutional basis for Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba as public bodies. In this respect, there is no discussion on the legislative proposal before us. That is separate from the questions about the interpretation of the position of the islands as a public body. The right to vote of the inhabitants of the BES Islands in the First Chamber should also be governed by the Constitution. Can the Minister promise that this will be settled before the 2019 First Chamber elections? What else has to be done before that? There is no doubt in our minds that the possibility should continue to exist for the BES islands to lay down rules that are different from those in the European part of the Netherlands. That possibility creates the proposed fourth paragraph of Article 132a. The question is when there are justified differences and when there are arbitrariness. The Statute makes explicit reference to factors which distinguish the islands substantially from the European part of the Netherlands, such as economic and social conditions, distance from the European part of the Netherlands, insularity, small size, population size, geographical conditions, climate and other factors. On the islands, however, the possibility of making a difference is still too often perceived as arbitrary. The expectations of the people on the islands were high in 2010, but the results were lagging behind. The Spies Committee notes that the islands often experience arbitrariness when it comes to how the European Netherlands deals with the application of the principle of equality. The reasons for the choice in legislation for or against differentiation vis-à-vis the European Netherlands and between the islands were certainly variable in the beginning and this has often been flawed. According to the Spies Committee, the government has neither a uniform approach nor an adequate direction in this regard. In the note following the report, the Minister rightly points out the protection of anti-discrimination, as enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. Article 1 applies to the BES islands as well as to the European part of the Netherlands. What has changed since the findings of the Spies Committee in applying the principle of equality? What is the situation with confidence in the Netherlands in the BES islands? What purpose does the government set itself to restore this confidence there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u20	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand the Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u21	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the great support they have given for the measures taken in view of the hurricane that is coming. In Article 36 of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands we often talk about all kinds of formal documents here: "The countries provide each other with help and assistance." This is typically a time when you need to be there for each other and I am glad that there is broad support for that. Especially after the 1995 disaster in which people died, many long-term measures have been taken in construction, for example with underground pipes. This must have made the situation much safer, but, of course, all kinds of measures have also been taken in the short term. Thanks to all satellite images, we already know in advance that something like this is coming. The MPs may have seen the footage of closing unsafe places, evacuating to safe premises people who live too close to the flood line and so on. In addition, almost 100 soldiers from the Lower Wind Islands went to the Upper Wind Islands to provide assistance there, if an emergency occurs. There are ships from the Navy steamed on them. Afterwards too, if there is reason to give help, we will do so in all kinds of ways. Yesterday, I discussed this in detail with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin, who is certainly aware of the seriousness of the situation. The latter may sound a bit crazy, but the countries are of course in a hurricane area. So they say: it's hurricane season, but we know that what's coming now is a very serious hurricane. It also remains exciting until the last moment whether the hurricane just grazed past it or goes over it full. In that sense, we do hold our hearts. We hold each other and we'll support each other. I now turn to today's subject, the second reading of a constitutional amendment aimed at incorporating public bodies into the Constitution. Maybe it's good to get the background on this all back. Those public bodies have so far been anchored in Article 134 of the Constitution. At the time this was meant for the Noordoostpolder, so for a province that wasn't there yet. It was therefore intended as a temporary arrangement, but by incorporating public bodies fully into the Constitution, we also ensure that the things that are self-evident for constitutionally guaranteed levels of government, such as directly elected parliament, autonomy and co-government, also speak for these public bodies. The right to vote for the First Chamber is also regulated. Mr Van Raak is right that this material will not, of course, produce very many seats, but it is, of course, a principle. That principle is deeply rooted: every people has the right to vote for their own parliament. Looking back, it might even be weird that this hasn't happened before. That is why this constitutional change is needed. I will also answer Mrs Van den Berg's question straight away: yes, if this is adopted here today and if the First Chamber accepts it, the right to vote has been achieved in time for the next election of the First Chamber for Dutch citizens in the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u22	Especially on Statia and Bonaire, there is some unrest about what we are doing here today, because there is a feeling among some people that the status they now have as part of the Netherlands is enshrined in the Constitution and that it would not be possible to change it. Can the Minister confirm that the people of Statia, the people of Bonaire or the people of Saba will be able to decide next week or next year that they do not want to be part of the Dutch state system and that this does not require a constitutional change again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u23	I can confirm that. We now settle the position of the public bodies within our state system. This is without prejudice to the fact that every former colony, even under international international law, always has the right to develop into a looser relationship within the Kingdom or even outside the Kingdom, as Suriname has done. Whether that is sensible or desirable is verse two. In any case, it must be based on an express decision of will by the people of such a former colony. However, it does not touch what is enshrined in the Constitution here today. Very practical: if one were to say that Statia, where this discussion is being held in particular, would not want to be a public body at all, that would be a debate other than this one. This simply anchors the position of public bodies in the Constitution. This is, of course, without prejudice to the fact that there could be a whole route: I do not think that this is sensible and desirable to say: we do not want that position, because we want the position of an autonomous country or we want it all out of the Kingdom. These are separate debates. So the short answer is yes. The amendment of the Constitution has also been tabled here at first reading, before a novelle came. At that time there was broad support for the proposal that the island council should then become the college, which then, like the Provincial States, could vote for the First Chamber, naturally weighted by the number of citizens behind it. This means that, even if only a few hundred cases are involved, those few hundred people with a Colombian passport or another passport, who have voted on Bonaire only once, it is not customary in that region to be able to vote for the local government as a foreigner again to lose their right to vote. Well, there's a reason we have a chambre de réflexion. The First Chamber has said: we would ask you to reconsider, because we consider it valuable that foreigners have the right to vote for local government, as the Netherlands we attach to it, even if on the other side of the ocean it may not be part of local customs. That's what's happened now. Indeed, that means that we will now have two elections in parallel. For practical purposes, a separate legislative proposal will be submitted to the Chamber. That's gonna happen soon. In reply to Mr Koopmans and others, it will give practical meaning. Let me at least say that it must lead to simultaneous elections for the island council and the electoral college, so that people only have to go to the ballot box once. I believe that is what Mr Van Raak was talking about. It's tempting to continue with this, but I don't think that would be entirely right. It also needs to be discussed in the Cabinet. So it's coming to the Chamber as soon as possible. It will indeed have to be done in a practical way. This was what I had to say in general terms about the constitutional change that is ahead of us. I will come back to the specific questions, in particular to a number of questions on differentiation. But this in a general sense on the second reading of the Constitutional proposal. It is a second reading and we are not going to amend it here. It is good to see that there is broad support for the proposal, which I should actually say'revelled proposal', because at first reading it is still modified by a novella which is now before us at second reading. If you will allow me, Mr President, I shall now turn to the specific questions that have been asked. First of all, I would like to address an important point, on which there should be no misunderstanding: the differentiation clause. There is no new fact with that. The differentiation clause is not new; it was already included in the Statute. Materially, therefore, nothing changes by moving the differentiation clause to the Constitution. Nor can I emphasise enough that the principle of equality of Article 1 of the Constitution applies and continues to apply throughout the Netherlands, including in the Caribbean Netherlands. However, as several speakers have said, we must also recognise that there are major differences between the Caribbean and the European part of the Netherlands. They may be subject to other rules. That was also agreed from the start. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Let me add something else. The differentiation provision is now set out in Article 1, second paragraph of the Statute and is incorporated into the Constitution, Article 132a, fourth paragraph. This is also in line with the final declaration of 11 October 2006, in which, among other things, the population size of the three islands, the great distance from the European part of the Netherlands and the insularity were mentioned as differences that could justify under circumstances that, for example, laws in force in the European Netherlands should not apply to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. Of course, this should not be done at random. For each legal measure, it is necessary to assess whether there are similar cases. In unequal cases, of course, there can be grounds for different treatment. In equal cases, this can only be done if there is a sufficiently serious legitimate objective. In addition, there must be an appropriate and necessary means. That must be properly justified. Since this has a legal basis, the Council of State will always be able to give advice on this matter. If a citizen in the Caribbean Netherlands believes that he is wrongly treated differently from a citizen in the European Netherlands, he can of course also appeal to the judge. However, as legislators, we must ensure that there is no reason to do so. That is the point of differentiation. I'm gonna take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u24	Our judges are not allowed to review the Constitution, so how can an individual citizen invoke a clause in the Constitution before the Dutch courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u25	We have the Equal Treatment Committee, which can see that there is unequal treatment. Then we can go to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u26	Decisions by the Equal Treatment Committee are not binding, so that is not a very strong anchor for people to know whether they are receiving equal treatment or not. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u27	I am testing a plea for an amendment to Article 120 of the Constitution in line with the former initiative-law proposal, Halsema, to introduce a constitutional test into the law. Anyway, we've already talked about that on other occasions. I understand the referral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u29	That brings me to the questions I have asked, which I shall deal with in the order of the speaker. Mrs Van Tongeren asked a question about the Ganzevoort motion. When will the social minimum be clarified on the islands? The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment informed the Chamber of the establishment of a benchmark for the security of existence. The next step is to carry out a research to this end, for which the research design has recently been coordinated with public bodies. That is the state of play on this point. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Engelshoven asked what happened to the recommendations of the Spies Committee. I will give a brief answer to that and add something to it, because this point has been raised by many speakers. In response to the Spies Committee, the cabinet pointed out that restraint in legislation was appropriate, taking into account the absorption capacity of the islands. The islands are agreed on the introduction or adaptation of legislation. We give priority to legislation that meets the basic needs of the islands or removes bottlenecks in the implementation practice of the islands, and which aims to eliminate unjustified differences. The opinion of the Spies Committee was not to link a timetable and an end date by law. I do not think that is practical either, but we are carrying out the opinion of the Spies Committee on this point. If you will allow me to do so, I would nevertheless like to highlight the expectations in the Caribbean Netherlands of what would happen after 10-10-10. Mrs van den Berg spoke about this. I think her analysis is correct. There were very high expectations. Looking back, you can say they might have been too high. If it was, it didn't go well. I've just been to all six islands and visited schools there. If I put the situation in Bonaire and neighbouring Aruba and Curaçao next to each other, the schools in Bonaire are simply better. They are in more modern buildings and are better equipped. The level of many amenities on Bonaire is in itself better than on the islands next door. That also makes sense, because if you salt everything, so what goes from the rich budget and what is paid by the residents in tax, there is going to be around €10,000 per head of the population in the Caribbean Netherlands per year. I've mentioned that calculation before. In Curaçao and Aruba, that budget support has disappeared, so there is also much less money going there. This also leads to the fact that there is real progress in the fields of education, care and a number of other areas, as has also been pointed out by the Spies Committee on Evaluation. But that is not yet the case in all areas. This applies, for example, to infrastructure. You can't suddenly improve all roads like magic. That's a trajectory that takes time. By the way, 9 million was made available to Bonaire three years ago. So it is also partly in the implementation on the ground and partly in local politics. As regards social security, I referred just now to the Ganzevoort motion and the commitment of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Of course, you're also dealing with local circumstances. For example, the minimum wage is lower there. The standard of living cannot suddenly be levelled without creating great frictions. These are factors which should ultimately be included in the recital in due course, even if the minimum level of existence is defined. I also discussed this extensively with the deputy of the island council at Bonaire. Then there is the question of how this is to be implemented in practice. You should start talking to the employers at the same time about the minimum wage, otherwise you will have very strange relationships. So that's complex matter. All in all, I want to contradict the impression that nothing has improved for people on Bonaire, Saba and Statia. At the same time, I understand very well that there is still a lot to be done and that we need to work hard on this in the years to come. I also understand that there is broad support for this in the Chamber. Of course, it is for a large part up to my successor to take over the stick. I'll give you one last cipher. I've gotten it straight from time to time, but I'm doing it out of my head right now, so keep me in the right place. The budget on the state budget, which went to the Caribbean Netherlands through various ministries, has, I believe, increased by more than 50% since 10-10-10. So a lot has really happened in recent years on the various budgets. That is what I wanted to say about the appropriate level of provision, which several Members have asked for. Mr Koopmans touched on an interesting point, on which I had not really thought through, but I cannot ask back any questions. He talked about the VVD's plea for a commonwealth. I have always understood this as a plea to bring the four countries in the Kingdom together in a more looser context, not in the present context, but in a commonwealth. But that is without prejudice to the fact that the country of the Netherlands consists of a European part and three Caribbean parts. If I'm right, otherwise I'd like to hear it in second term, that strictly speaking wouldn't have any consequences for the Caribbean Netherlands, even if you followed the line of the initiative paper of the VVD and the SP. That's my reaction to that plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u30	I'd be happy to do it in the form of a question. Can the Minister confirm the following? We have said that we prefer to see a commonwealth as a solution, but that is not the case now. That is why we need to take a practical approach now as it is now. That is why we are in favour of the proposal. Can the Minister confirm that I said that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u31	The latter had not escaped my attention. Thank you for that support. Thanks for emphasising that practical implementation as well. Mr Van Raak also said a few things about this; I will come back to that in a moment. If this rather theoretical exercise would lead to elections with a very low turnout, it would be detrimental to democracy. So we need to put this into practice. We'll do that with an ordinary law, and it's coming soon. I therefore thank Mr Koopmans for his support for the proposal before us. Mr Krol called for strong support for public bodies, particularly the elderly who need it very much. It's marked. Thank you for that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Minister said that there will be a law that will have to be practically regulated. I assume that that law respects Article 53 and Article 1 of the Constitution, namely that the elections are secret and that we have an equality principle. It seems to me that it is very difficult to include the test balloon, as I would call it, in secret elections in accordance with the principle of equality, to give one half of the people pink and the other half white ballots. Moreover, I do not know of any democracy that uses two types of ballots for its electorate. I would like to hear from the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u33	The short answer is yes. You can assume that the proposal fits within the framework of the Constitution. Furthermore, I do not participate in assumptions about how others would have made proposals. I'll leave that in the middle. I would like to thank Mrs van Engelshoven for her support. I replied on the differentiation clause. It is right to raise the issue of the electoral college in order to retain the right to vote for foreigners on the islands. This was also brought in by the senators of D66, and also by Professor Koole of the Labour Party, so I remember. They did so on a one-sided basis, and it turned out that they supported this in both chambers, so that led to an amendment of the proposal. Then I will be in dubio about what I will say in response to Mr Van Raak, but that has also been resolved. Let me give you a full and honest answer. Mr Van Raak is right. The construction chosen is a hybrid solution. If I'm gonna tease lawyers, I'm gonna ask if the First Chamber has been elected directly or indirectly. They'll all say, indirectly. That's not the right answer. The First Chamber is directly elected, namely by the members of Provincial States. The difference is that the members of Provincial States can vote whatever they want. They may vote in favour of another Party and negotiate the conditions under which they vote. That has also happened, so strictly speaking it is a direct election by members of Provincial States. In order to give the people of the Caribbean Netherlands the fundamental right to vote for the First Chamber of Parliament, we have generated a construction whereby we choose people for no other purpose than to vote for the First Chamber. That is indeed an asymmetry in our system, but you cannot solve it otherwise. Then you'd have to question the whole matter of having the county choose the First Chamber, but we can't do that now, Stunning Pede. We certainly do not want to deny the right to vote for the First Chamber to the citizens of the Caribbean Netherlands. Hence this hybrid solution has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u34	We can also abolish the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u35	I refer to my previous reply. We cannot deny the right to vote for Dutch people in the Caribbean Netherlands because there is a very different discussion, which might be discussed in a much longer timeframe. In any case, I will stay away from the question of whether that can ever be discussed. We have therefore chosen this practical solution. I understand that Mr Van Raak supports the proposal despite this reflection. Thank you for that. We agree that a practical solution must be chosen. Mrs Van den Berg asked whether, if everyone is going through this now, the right to vote for the First Chamber can be arranged well before 2019. The answer to that is yes. I have just tried to answer the question of restoring confidence. I also had an intrusive conversation with the entire island council, of all three islands, but also with Bonaire. This is unique in itself, because the minister never talks to the city council of Zoetermeer, but now he talks to the entire island council of the public bodies. Then you'll be addressed much more directly to what lives there. I believe my predecessor Donner has already predicted that. Due to the lifting of the Netherlands Antilles, many issues where people would previously move to Willemstad, if they got very angry, are immediately on the table here in The Hague. That is indeed a different situation. I really think that a lot has been done by the different ministries to improve people's lives on the ground, but it is not good enough. We will have to deal with this in The Hague, in order to make it even better. We've been asked how we can restore confidence. Well, by arranging good things for people, but sometimes by pushing them back. I was indeed confronted with people saying that nothing has improved since 10-10-10. Then I said yes, but the schools... Yeah, the schools do. What about the hospital? Yeah, the hospital did. Then I said, didn't family allowances come in? Yes, it is. What about health insurance? Yeah, I do, but there's still holes in the roads. That is true and something must be done about it, but I want to take away the picture that nothing has improved for people since 10-10-10. I believe that everyone who has done so in recent years should receive credits for this. You're gonna have to do that to build trust. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions I have asked. I'm just gonna browse through it. Yeah, I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yeah? I'll take a look around, see if the MPs agree. Thank you very much, then we will now go to the second term, if that is what we need. I see that this is the case. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the broad support and also what the Minister has said. I also saw a message on RTL passing by that our thoughts and concerns are with the people who may or may not end up in the path of that hurricane. I'm glad we're doing everything we can to help. I have just said that GroenLinks naturally supports this bill. I have one short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rules applicable to the Caribbean Netherlands may be different from those applicable to the continental part of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas this could lead to unjustified differences, particularly as regards social security and the provision of an acceptable level of provision;]] [[calls on the Government to establish clear criteria for the acceptable level of provision for the Caribbean public bodies and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Tongeren and Van Engelshoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34702-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u38	I very much agree, so I will support her. I must say, however, that we have tabled such motions before. The SP did the same. There's an investigation going on right now. So it is a call for something that is actually already happening, the Minister might say. I think it's a little... You can say that this debate is about everything, but I wonder if this is really the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Van Raak is wondering something. The messages that have reached me today I have spoken with Bonaire's people, and that is that this is very much alive. There are many issues in this Chamber on which we have already made an appeal. We would like to emphasise once again that this is very important and that at least the D66 and GroenLinks groups, and fortunately the SP, I have just heard, support this. Perhaps, unfortunately, we will be standing here again in six months' time with a new cabinet, to underline this once again and to ask for action to be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u40	I very much agree with that. I have underlined this and I would like to underline it. The SP has always underlined this and taken the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u42	But that does make the motion a little redundant. I'd just like to point that out. We should not just be concerned with symbolic politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u43	I am very happy to hear that the SP does not want to be involved in symbolic politics. I also look forward to a reduction in the amount of motions from the fraction of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. Let me be very brief. I thank the Minister for answering the questions, including specifically my question on the most efficient solution possible. I welcome his commitment to continue looking at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I would also like to thank him for the commitment that we can quickly see the legislation on the electoral college of the First Chamber and that he will see to it that the election is as efficient as possible. I would like to say a few words about the differentiation clause. I thank the Minister for the very clear commitment that this material will mean nothing new. I think it is very important to send that signal back to the islands. And about the criteria that need to be differentiated: in the field of social affairs in particular, there is so much need for people to be clear about this. It's about your income in the future. That is why I signed Mrs Van Tongeren's motion. This really needs to be clarified for people in the short term. I therefore hope that this minister or a new cabinet will act as a matter of urgency. Finally, I would like to say something about the pace at which legislation is being adapted. I understand that the Minister says that we cannot set a concrete-cast timetable for this, but there is a big difference between a concrete-cast timetable and leaving everything open. I therefore continue to insist on providing a reasonable view of when what will be adjusted. Yeah, there's been a lot of improvement on the islands. But it would be good if people could have a concrete view of when what legislation is being amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u46	I see that Mr Van Raak is not using his second term. I call Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and also for the clear statement that much has already been done on the one hand in the areas of, for example, care and education, but on the other hand there is still much to be done in the areas of infrastructure, the provision of economic prospects and the elimination of poverty. The Minister indicated that the investigation design was recently aligned with the public body. We wonder if the Minister could give a time indication of when the investigation will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you. I see the Minister can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you for the broad support shown for this constitutional change. There's one motion ahead. It would, of course, be the easiest thing to say in the context of the overall celebration of broad support for this constitutional change to leave the vote to the Chamber. Given my missionary position, I wouldn't have so much work to do. But that would be too easy. I would therefore like to look at this very carefully. As far as the motion confirms what has already been laid down by the previous Ganzevoort motion and on which the Secretary of State has made a commitment to clarify the social minimum, the motion is superfluous. But as I read the motion, it is likely to become wider. The motion states: 'whereas this can, above all, encourage unjustified differences in social security'. We are going to create more expectations than what was previously laid down by motion. In any case, I cannot leave that to the Court's judgment now. In any case, that falls within the portfolio of the Social Affairs colleague. We just talked about expectations management. I wouldn't do that right now. Again, in general, I have given a comprehensive answer to the principle of differentiation. I also told Mrs van Engelshoven that this constitutional change would not change anything in that respect. A commitment has been made by SZW's colleague on the minimum standard of living. I would like to advise the Chamber to wait for the outcome of the investigation now. Mrs van der Berg asks when that outcome will be. Now she's asking me over, because I don't know now. I'll relay the signal that the Chamber is tensely waiting for that, so there's a time pressure on it. I would like to advise the Chamber not to add anything else to that trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u50	The definition of a minimum standard of living is different from the question of which criteria are used. We have a differentiation clause. Things can be arranged differently in some areas. That gives a degree of uncertainty. This minister wants to give him confidence. This motion asks: what criteria do you take when you look at an acceptable level of provision, without saying that the level of provision should be x or y? The question here is not how much it should be, how much child benefit and how much study funding, but what type of criteria you are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mrs Van Tongeren thus confirms my suspicion that the motion goes beyond the commitment made by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Then it becomes all the more difficult to leave the opinion to the Chamber, because those criteria must then be fulfilled. That goes beyond what I can see here. Mrs Van Tongeren can hold the motion until an opportunity for a debate with the colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. That could be a suggestion. If she wishes to put the motion to the vote now, I can only advise against this motion now. Again, it would be easier for me to let it go, but that is not what we are here for. I have responded to the timetable for the adjustment which Mrs van den Berg referred to. In any case, I will act in consultation with the islands on the point she mentioned. That might also be a nice final agreement for this treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-9.u53	We will vote next Tuesday on the proposed bill and the motion. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
