ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	A warm word of welcome to Secretary of State Visser for Defence, who, I understand, also speaks on behalf of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber, four of whom are going to say something. The first speaker should be Jasper van Dijk of the SP, but that has become Mrs Karabulut. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Give peace a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	All we are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	A world without nuclear weapons. I would like to present this plea to the Secretary of State, because it is almost Christmas and a world without nuclear weapons can and is possible if we all want to. For the moment we are talking about the F-35, the flying Fyra, the JSF. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the time of the decision to purchase the JSF, it was decided to set a budget of EUR 4.5 billion for 37 aircraft (price level 2013);]] [[calls on the government not to deviate from the planned budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26488-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of talk about the F-35. That is why this VAO following a debate that we have had seriously about the acquisition of the F-35. I notice that there is a lot of information that isn't always right. I'm sorry to hear that. So my hope is that we can get more information from the people who really know it. I hope that we will soon be able to talk to people from the Air Force, for example, who can keep a good story about how the F-35 works, what the F-35 does and what the F-35's possibilities are. That's my hope for the future. Then we in the Chamber will look at the possibilities of making serious consideration of them. You will not be surprised that I do not support Mrs Karabulut's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	Very good. Then we'll know. So much for the Chamber's term. Is the Secretary of State capable of commenting on one motion? That's the case. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. I won't respond to the pamphlet. Perhaps this will be possible under the Christmas tree for the coming period. I will respond to Mrs Karabulut and Mr Van Dijk's motion. I'm deceiving that motion. We have also had this discussion with each other in general consultation, not so much about the JSF, but above all about the function of the fighter plane the F-35. We want to protect our airspace, we want to participate in UN missions, we want to ensure that we can also participate in other missions when it comes to combat support, for example in Lithuania. For that we need a fighter plane and that has become the F-35. We need at least 37 yachts for that. Next year, I will consult with you if it turns out that the budget is insufficient for the last three devices. We will first consult with you on the Defence Memorandum, which states our ambitions and what is needed for them. We are also talking about the budgets needed for this, including the fighter planes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mrs Karabulut, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	We've got the F-16. It's even sold to other countries. He's still doing fine. Anyway, you definitely want this plane. We recently heard at a hearing of specialists that the thing is not working from any side and that the Americans themselves have no confidence in it either. It's also gonna be... I hear some noise behind me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	I don't hear that, so just keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	Okay, maybe you could point that out to the MPs. It has been earmarked for 4.5 billion, and this motion calls for it to remain so. That was the deal. For 4.5 billion dollars you buy devices that you can buy, which I'm not for, and if it gets more expensive, the party just doesn't happen. It is at the expense of other matters, of our concern, of military personnel. Why take out more billions for a plane that we already know is all flawed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	The JSF is intended to protect ourselves, to protect the Netherlands, to protect the Kingdom and to bring about the international legal order in the world. That's what we need them for. You can find some of that. I know what the SP's opinion is, but we in the government don't share it. We have just decided to purchase the F-35. We're gonna go into the Defense Note and tell them what's necessary for that. That is what we are doing with you, because you can indicate what you think should be the level of ambition and what employability objectives should be included. You can then indicate whether the budget is sufficient or insufficient. We say that we need at least 37 of them, which are really needed for the current employability objectives. But we are now in another world with a different threat. I'd be happy to enter that discussion with you in the Defence Note. Maybe we'll get together, even after your Christmas party. So far, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Fine. No, we're done. You have one question per motion. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	We are going to vote on this motion tonight. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her presence in this wide-ranging debate. I may suspend for a few minutes, at least until 6:00 p.m. Then we're gonna talk about the prison system. We may move forward sooner if the Secretary of State for Legal Protection arrives sooner. For the people who are still following it: I suspend until 6:00 or as much earlier as possible.
