ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on exposure of workers and local residents to hazardous substances from chemical company Chemours/DuPont. I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66 as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A safe home, a safe environment. I talked about this in May during my maiden speech about Chemours. The neighbors of Chemours didn't live in such a safe environment. And workers have not worked in a safe environment, as it turns out, while people must be able to rely on it. This summer brought three bad news reports around this factory. The report on the exposure of the employees who also have to deal with health concerns with the negative news, the research of the Vrije Universiteit about GenX and PFOA on grass and leaves and thus also on fruit and vegetables from local gardens and also reports about unsafe drinking water from the crane resulting in a protest march. This march shows that there is a great deal of unrest and concern. Looking back, the question arises as to why the licence holder did not intervene until so late and only then radically reduced the concentrations for GenX substances. In that case, the installation which now provides much less hazardous substances in the waste water could have been in place much earlier. There's a criminal investigation into Chemours, so we can't say much about that. But let it be clear in general terms that D66 believes that companies that work with dangerous substances and do not comply with the rules or simply do not accept their responsibility should be severely punished. So what do we do now? In the previous debate we tabled a motion and it was adopted. That motion asks the State Secretary to proactively offer blood tests in collaboration with local authorities. She would discuss this with the municipalities. How does it implement this motion so far? Earlier, I was picturing people's concerns. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the communication between researchers, such as those of the VU, and the various authorities is going? Can the citizen easily find all available information? I heard there were only information meetings on one night. Was one night of information enough? We were pleased to read that the Minister of SZW has launched three actions: a special inspection team, taking into consideration all the signals from professionals and investigating the limitation period. We would like to hear from the Minister the state of play on these three actions, in particular the limitation period. The Minister also announced that he would work with all parties, including industry, to develop a knowledge platform on toxicological information. That sounds very noncommittal. Is this gonna be enough? Do companies have the latest information to protect their employees? We must also look further ahead as politicians. How do we prevent us from standing here again in the same situation in a while and then talking about another dangerous substance or another company? D66 is not of unrealistic proposals, facts-free politics or false expectations. We understand very well that reversal of the burden of proof in allowing discharges of substances may sound nice, but it is not possible. It is a good thing that companies have to provide evidence themselves and that they pay for the costs themselves. But we always see afterwards that RIVM has to ask for a guide value. And we see that substances are often not on the European list yet. What should the competent authority do if there are no frameworks at the time of authorisation under the EU framework or under the Dutch emission directives? How is that to be foreseen? In an earlier motion, I also asked for agreements on those powers of governments and maximum transparency. Have steps been taken on this? And now my final point, Mr President. Surely it cannot be explained that drinking water companies are not now getting information about discharged substances? D66 wants drinking water companies to be actively informed by companies that discharge substances. It is sad enough that drinking water companies are now unable to extract water from surface water for much of the year because it is too polluted. It is even more strange that drinking water companies should actively look for substances here and that the research programme is needed to detect this and filter out these substances. Why are companies not obliged to actively inform drinking water companies about what they are discharging, in what amount and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	I am pleased to hear that my colleague from D66 shares our concerns about the impact of Chemours discharges on residents and employees. My question is whether my colleague therefore supports the call for a real stop to these discharges. It's already happened in the United States. It's okay here, too. Why allow discharges at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	It would be nice if we could reduce these discharges as far as possible. The province has greatly reduced the permit. We are very pleased with that. The province also indicates that it does not have so much resources to enforce, for example, a revision permit. Those are possibilities that we can explore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	I understand that D66 would like to further reduce discharges. GroenLinks and a number of other parties have previously tabled a motion calling for a halt to further discharges, as has also been done in the US. Would D66 support such a call?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	In my opinion, the previous debate also indicated that this is not legally feasible now, because it is in the way of regulation. It would be nice if we did have that regulation and if there were clarity about the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Laçin on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 17 May of this year I was allowed to give my maiden speech here during my first debate on Chemours. We are now more than four months away and it has not remained silent around the factory and the discharge of GenX. Just a look back: GenX found in drinking water in more than ten municipalities, drinking water companies pulling the bell, VU toxicologists find PFOA and GenX on plants and trees in the vicinity of the factory and during the production process the very worrying substance PFIB is released compared to mustard gas and the State Secretary has also confirmed that it can be very dangerous for health. Hundreds of activists on 26 August in Dordrecht and we have just received a petition that has been signed more than 12,000 times. The people who handed over the petition are sitting here in the stands. I welcome them. This is a laundry list of developments within four months. So it is not surprising that we are having another debate on this subject today. Meanwhile, the province has strengthened Chemours' permit to discharge GenX further. Chemours has also installed a new pilot plant to better purify GenX, which will further reduce the discharge. Are we there now? Have the concerns and anger of the citizens now been removed? No, absolutely not. It's gonna take a lot more than that. As far as we are concerned, the only safe limit of GenX in the water is 0%. That stuff just doesn't belong in our drinking water or in our environment. As far as we are concerned, the discussion should not be about safe and unsafe margins GenX. The question is whether this stuff should be in our drinking water and in our environment at all. The answer to this is very clear to the SP: no. The province does the maximum, but it cannot reduce the discharge of GenX to zero. The instruments of the province are exhausted by now. We ask the Secretary of State to give the competent authority more opportunities. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the province operates at the end of its powers? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see to extend them? Mr. Chairman. We should not confine ourselves to Chemours in this discussion. We have heard many times what cannot be done, but the SP Group demands more decisiveness and more courage from the cabinet when it comes to the question of what can be done. For example, it has surprised the SP to read that Chemours in South Holland invests for millions in a new pilot plant, while Chemours in the United States has simply indicated that water discharges can be prevented by seizing it. How is this possible? I'd like a response. We also wonder who pays the bill for cleaning the drinking water afterwards. Is the position of drinking water company Oasen that consumers pay for this and not a chemist who pollutes our environment and makes billions of profits? Finally, Mr President. This point, too, has been raised earlier by the SP: is it not time to combat not only the symptoms of the current system but also the pollution at the source? Today we will talk about Chemours, but if the current system does not change, we will be able to debate again in three months' time another company that is losing a substance in our environment whose effects on our health are unknown. What steps will the Secretary of State, both European and national, take to make it clear to the more than 12,000 petitioners and the hundreds of people who have taken action that they are committed to them and that public health is the number one priority? I have one more question for the Minister of Social Affairs. At the beginning of July it became clear in the media that the Labour Inspectorate did not look back on hazardous substances at DuPont and Chemours for decades. I think this was in a newspaper article in the A.D. At the same time, there has been considerable cuts in the inspection service for years and it has become clear that the inspection SZW is understaffed. We do not see any increase in the inspection service's budget for the coming years. How will the Minister ensure that the inspection service will maintain and address abuses in the coming years without making the necessary investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Laçin. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. In August I attended a demonstration in Dordrecht against the discharge of GenX. I can say one thing: the people are angry. They're also quite right to be angry. They feel like they're screwed, because they've been screwed. Neighbors of the factory responsible for this, Chemours, are advised by toxicologists of the VU not to eat vegetables from their own garden, because the environment is much more polluted than previously thought. The RIVM is going to do the whole research again and does it very quietly, because the results are not expected until the autumn. Mr. Chairman. To this day, the health of locals is being played. On 14 September, my colleague Van Raan of the Party for Animals asked if the Minister could send a letter to the Chamber prior to this debate on the results of the measurements to the concentration of GenX in drinking water. Yesterday, the Minister announced that we will not receive the letter until November. So we will only then deal with them. All these investigations and letters are getting going very slowly. Mr. Chairman. People expect the government to prevent such substances from entering the environment and to set tough standards for companies to comply with. They expect that guide values and limit values will not be magical. People want safe drinking water, clean soil and clean air. GenX does not belong in our water, in our soil and in our air. It is a lousy situation where the government does not take its responsibility to protect its citizens from the health damage caused by a chemical criminal who clearly considers economic gain to be more important than serious security measures. DuPont was already familiar with research information on the harmfulness of C8 in the 1960s and has also had to pay mass claims for it in the United States. DuPont deliberately withheld this information. That cannot and cannot happen in the Netherlands. In order to avoid reckless behaviour in chemistry in the future, the Minister wants to talk to social partners. He wants to set up a programme to inform employees about how to deal more consciously with dangerous substances. It's the reverse world. The starting point of the study is that the employer is responsible for protecting the worker from harmful substances. However, the government also has a duty of care to protect employees and local residents. I shall therefore repeat my motion of 17 May (28089, No. 44), in which I call for immediate cessation of discharges of GenX, both by air and by water. I also ask the Secretary of State and the Minister if they can draw up a list of chemicals that are currently discharged but are not proven to be harmless and send them to the Chamber. The Secretary of State's letter does not reassure at all. As I said, employers are responsible for protecting workers and the environment. DuPont/Chemours can deliver company documents with impunity or say that they have been destroyed; unfortunately. Mr. Chairman. Health damage to residents and workers often occurs after decades. Is the Secretary of State therefore prepared to impose on chemical companies an obligation to maintain and share in good time all data relating to the use of chemicals and knowledge about their risks to human health and the environment? Finally, Mr President. Again, chemical criminals should not risk the health of local residents and workers for economic gain without impunity. The government must protect them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. How much longer do we have to accept that Chemour's rules continue to be broken, that the environment continues to be polluted and that workers and residents continue to be exposed to dangerous substances? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we will stop the discharge and emissions of GenX. The Minister states that the Empire's commitment is to further reduce emissions. I am unclear as to why the commitment is not to stop the discharges, as has been done in the United States. I would like to thank the Minister for the information on the fact-finding of DuPont, which was shared with the Chamber. It provides a worrying picture of the health risks that workers may have faced. There were insufficient policies, insufficient controls and insufficient measures on the part of the employer himself. Right now, the D.A.'s in the middle of a criminal investigation. I hope to hear more of that soon. The question is, of course, how will we prevent it from ever happening again in the future? I am pleased that the Minister is going to set up a specialized team to monitor workers for exposure to dangerous substances, but I am also surprised that this has not been done before. Can the Minister indicate how many times DuPont has actually been checked by the Labour Inspectorate in the past on this issue? That remains completely unclear in the letter sent. What is the Minister going to do about the fact that at present 70% of companies where workers work with dangerous substances have not done any exposure assessment? It scares me. I'd like a response. The fact is, above all, that we continue to be behind the facts with harmful substances. The essence of the matter for me is that the company had known about certain harmful substances for decades, but it did not make this information public or share it with employees. The chemical industry has only become more complex. We really need to move towards a different policy, which focuses on the precautionary principle and transparency. Workers, residents and consumers of, for example, an anti-stick pan should not be exposed to risks. That really requires a different approach. First, good and independent research into the consequences before permits are granted. Companies must be required to be transparent about all the knowledge and research they have about the products they produce and the substances released from production. Does the Secretary of State intend to make a commitment to this in Europe? The Minister makes a move in this direction in the letter. He states that knowledge about dangerous substances must be shared and that he wants to encourage this in companies. But shouldn't we just make this mandatory? Are there any options for this? I read that the Minister wants to encourage worker biomonitoring. That's good, but we'll forget about the neighbors. As far as I am concerned, it has to go much further and the Netherlands has to set up a broad biomonitoring programme, so that we test Dutch citizens on a sample basis for a wide range of harmful substances. Then with regard to GenX. This is present in increasingly large areas of drinking water, including The Hague and Leiden. However, in response to State questions, the province of South Holland states that Chemours is not necessarily the source of this. How is this possible? Who else can get rid of this? How many companies are using this substance? Can this be involved in the previously announced research into GenX in drinking water? I would also like to hear a response to Vewin's call to the emergency bell about the fact that drinking water companies have to stop their activities because substances are found that are not known. Is the Secretary of State prepared to oblige companies to actively communicate to licence providers and drinking water companies what substances they discharge? Mr President, I shall conclude. It is sad that the problems with Chemours continue to accumulate and that we now have to hold another debate on this, but we must also realise that this is not an incident. It is a result of a policy on dangerous substances, in which we go after the facts time and time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate I asked for clarity for the residents and the workers, but I fear that they will not get the desired clarity today either. Firstly, because we are still awaiting the report by Rijkswaterstaat on the discharge of GenX to surface water. The question is whether or not this was allowed within the permits issued and whether we should focus our attention on the company or the government that issued these permits. 'Cause one thing's out of the question for the PVV. Our drinking water must be safe and there cannot be any dangerous substances that endanger health. Mr. Chairman. The report of the labour market inspection also leaves a lot to be desired. First of all, why is it only the documents that the defendant, in this case Chemours, has provided himself, being used? That sounds kind of weird to me. It's kind of like asking a suspect from a robbery to deliver the evidence himself. How is this possible? Was this not the purpose of the investigation, or did the labour market inspection not have this competence? Secondly, why is this study, which is still aimed at potentially unhealthy working conditions for workers, not a company doctor questioned, while the large differences in blood results seem to give rise to all this? Or doesn't it matter that one employee has 0.02 micrograms of fluorine in his blood and the other 20 micrograms of fluorine? No further conclusions are drawn. Why has it not been further investigated whether the persons with the high blood levels later became ill? I think that's easy to figure out. That seems to me to be quite essential information, also for the former workers who have brought a case against Chemours. So why didn't that happen, so I ask the Minister. Thirdly, the Labour Inspectorate does not draw any clear conclusions in the report. Is that because they themselves see that they have failed in supervision? Hasn't there been too much confidence towards these companies? And should we not have called on the Ministry or the politicians earlier to ask for the necessary instruments or regulations to act? Or has this happened and have all the Cabinets from the Den Uyl cabinet not had an eye for this? Mr President, concluding. Unfortunately, the mistakes made in the past cannot be reversed. As far as PVV is concerned, it must now be made clear as soon as possible whether people have become ill with dangerous substances from Chemours, how many are there and how these people are helped. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State when they expect to be able to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. During the past year, the factory Chemours, the former DuPont in Dordrecht, regularly appeared in the news and always negative, also here in the Chamber. I believe it is now the fourth time this year that we are talking about this factory. That is really bizarre, because we are not even the competent authority, we have an overarching role to play in this. It was about the years of exposure of residents and workers to dangerous substances and illegal discharges. I understand people are worried about possible health effects. We have talked about this before, and that is good. Chemours now has all appearances against him. The company simply has a huge problem with their image, but also with acting. The communication's downright bad. Even though they've been tapped, the real solutions remain unsolved. There's even a trial going on because they don't agree with the competent authority. How is that possible? Of course, some parties and local residents want that factory to be locked up immediately, but that won't last in court. And then what are the facts? If we look at the facts, DuPont has exceeded the norm for at least 32 years when it comes to the limit value for PFOA, which is used in the production of teflon. Fortunately that has not been in use since 2012, but it is a new substance that raises new questions. Employees of DuPont's lycra factory in the same field have in the past been exposed to the venomous substance DMAc, with all nasty side effects. Recently, GenX has been illegally discharged into the water and into the air. Both the Province and the Public Prosecutor's Office have acted against this. As far as I'm concerned, the company has lost its goodwill. When it comes to external security, it's that company that's primarily at the ball. They have to make sure they're okay. We can do a lot, but it really has to be intrinsic to the company. They also try to take steps to reduce emissions and discharges to water, but on the other hand you can also see these offences. If agreements are broken, the government gets in the picture. 'Cause we have rules, and we're gonna keep them. The VVD therefore also welcomes the fact that an enforcement process has begun, because where people go wrong over and over again, a limit has to be drawn. Chemours has to take responsibility. I therefore stand squarely behind the province of South Holland to turn the thumb screws on at this company. The province supervises Chemours more closely, recently also through the DCMR, which, I think, is good, and maintains the permits among other things. As far as I am concerned, there is sufficient knowledge to do this effectively. As far as the VVD is concerned, safety for the environment, people and the environment must always be at the top of the list. I'm done with the Chemours thing. Then I have some questions. I've already told you that Chemours regularly gets negative in the news. Actually, it's kind of the black sheep of the chemical sector. Recently I think that is a good development.They have become members of the trade association, but you will only be an industry association and such a party joins. Well, you're good with that. This while I see during work visits what beautiful things happen in chemistry when it comes to sustainability, when it comes to safety first and when it comes to how you deal with your employees. My question to the Secretary of State: what do you think of Chemours and to what extent does this company put such an industry, where many beautiful things happen, into an evil light? Then there's my second question. Chemours was separated from DuPont in 2015, the great DuPont that now merges with Dow. The VVD gets the feeling that Chemours is split up to make that merger possible. What does this mean for the viability and future resilience of Chemours? To what extent is this a healthy business or is it kept healthy? To what extent can they also invest in the future to implement all these new environmental requirements that we are going to set? How do we prevent this company from being sucked out by perhaps stricter environmental rules and that it should eventually be phased out and we will be left with all the misery? Three brief questions to the Minister for Social Affairs. I've read an epistle of 14 pages, a cloud of chronology of solution directions. My questions are about the special intervention team, the information team, so to speak. What kind of problem is this gonna solve? Why does that have to be an institution of its own, because we are already so fragmented? Does the Minister share the VVD's view that this should actually be something for a new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	I am glad to hear that my colleague from the VVD is now tired of the Chemours business. What is still unclear to me is what consequences he will have. Does the VVD consider that more is needed than simply the fact that the company may continue to discharge within the permit as it does now, while it is structuralally violating it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	The company has to follow the rules. That's one. And if they don't, we'll keep it. And then, as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna stick to it. Two, we need to make the demands more stringent. So I stand squarely behind the province of South Holland, as I have already said, which is now actually seeking a withdrawal of these substances. That's the way we have to go. If the company says at some point that it can't or doesn't want to comply, then it's end of practice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	Given the fact that the company already has a whole range of failure to comply with the agreements and breach of the rules, my question is whether the VVD can indicate when it will really end exercise for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs Kröger must be clear about what rules exactly. It is true that they have a permit, it is true that we are tightening it up, but it is also true that recently illegal discharges have been carried out. Yeah, you can't. We are against this and sanctions are followed. Part of it's the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Being able to do healthy and safe work is a certainty that the whole of the Netherlands should be able to build on. For former employees of DuPont/Chemours, that was not the case. They live in uncertainty about their health. And concerns about your health are directly at the heart of your existence. The same applies to the residents of Chemours, after all the illegal discharges of the last few years. Unfortunately, we cannot remove these concerns today, but we owe it to all employees and former employees of DuPont/Chemours and all workers in the Netherlands to learn the right lessons. As far as Chemours is concerned, we need to await a criminal investigation by the D.A. However, we must get to grips with the lessons outlined by the Minister for Social Affairs in his letter. We read in the budget that for the elaboration and implementation of lessons and measures following the fact research Chemours €200,000 is available. How will this amount be used? What can we expect from this now and in 2018? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, DuPont/Chemours is not on its own. It's 2017. Over the past decades, working conditions for healthy and safe working have improved. There are legal provisions, there are collective agreements, there is supervision. However, it is estimated that 400,000 workers die each year from occupational diseases, a major part of which is caused by exposure to dangerous substances. Unhealthy working conditions cause an annual loss of nearly 86,000 healthy years of life. We need to do something about that. We're seeing some worrying developments. We read in the Minister's letter that 70% of companies where workers work with or may be exposed to dangerous substances have not carried out any exposure assessment. At the same time, we read in the budget that the number of inspections in terms of healthy and safe working is decreasing in 2017. How is that possible? And how are we going to prevent this? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we are ensuring that enforcement is put in place. When exactly can we expect the special team of hazardous substances at the Department of Social Affairs? Does it get enough capacity? Secondly, the rules and regulations. It is clear that the five-year period should be extended because the effects of working with dangerous substances are often visible only later. The Social Affairs Inspectorate must also be able to act in a sanctioning manner after five years. We do not think it is enough to examine whether the five-year period can be extended. It needs to be expanded. Thirdly, the intention to bring reprotoxic substances under the legal regime applicable to works involving carcinogenic substances. How's that plan coming along? When can we expect results? Finally, the knowledge platform. Sharing knowledge about hazardous substances is essential to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can work safely and healthily. Now I understand that this proposal from the Economic and Social Council cannot count on sufficient support from employers. Is this true? And if so, what kind of nonsense is that? It has been said several times that employers are the first to ensure safe and healthy work, but there is no support for a knowledge platform. I'd like an explanation. Employers are responsible in the Netherlands for ensuring healthy and safe working conditions. They must believe in it at will or at will. What are the options for bringing employers to the table? In addition to enforcement, can we also look at stricter fines if companies do not behave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have a question. For me, it is still unclear what the PvdA thinks of the current system whereby substances are registered and placed on the market in Europe, and we often only find out years later that they are dangerous to public health. The long-term effects on public health are also unknown from PFOA and GenX. What does the PvdA think of the European system? And does the PvdA think that should change too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	Let's get back to the SP. The European system, in which we determine which substances are dangerous to public health, must eventually be used in the Netherlands. I think there's a tension there. Because what is ultimately being determined in Europe is what we see now also happening with a number of substances, and it is still necessary to map out and determine in the Dutch regime, so that we can also maintain it. As far as I and my group are concerned, there is too much time in between. We need to be able to see quickly that a substance is dangerous for workers and for residents, for citizens, before it actually works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Does the PvdA then argue for a system like we have for food safety, where first a good test is done and something comes on the market only when the effects are clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	As I said earlier in my speech, I asked the Minister a number of questions. In Europe, these substances have already been identified as dangerous. In the end, this must be included in the Dutch regime. In that respect, I await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. In response to the worrying incidents, the SZW inspection at Chemours chemical company carried out a study on the working conditions, safety and health of employees and residents. The cesspool around this company doesn't seem to be emptying. One of the points of improvement mentioned by the Minister in his letter of 5 July is the fact that sharing knowledge about dangerous substances between companies or with the public authorities leaves something to be desired. That is very serious, because it should be self-evident. The REACH Regulation would encourage this, but it is not sufficient. The Minister indicated that he would consult with industry, RIVM, TNO and the Health Council to improve the situation. But does the Minister also see possibilities for heavier resources, for example a legal obligation? It is about the health of employees within companies and about public health in a broader sense. Shouldn't it be criminal to not share relevant knowledge? The role of the inspection leaves something to be desired. For years it has not looked at the toxic substances that posed health risks. What lessons has the inspection learned from this? The Minister reported that he intends to further strengthen supervision by setting up a special inspection team with specialist inspectors in the field of exposure to dangerous substances. From this team the inspection can give extra attention. But when will this special team be operational? Because if we have to learn something from Chemours, it's that this should never happen again. Has the Minister spoken with the social partners about the partial inclusion of these dangerous substances under a legal regime? Then what came out of it? What action will he take now? Why not opt directly for a stricter legal framework, especially in view of the serious health effects on women in particular? So there's a hurry. I'd like a response. At the end of August we learned that RIVM would conduct research in vegetable gardens in the immediate vicinity of Chemours, following the research of the VU. The VU had shown that eating home-grown fruit and vegetables could be dangerous. Has the research of the RIVM started yet? When will the results follow? Chemours has found a new way to better purify toxic waste water, but according to research firm KWR there can technically be more than Chemours is currently doing. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State? Can't we expect more from Chemours? In addition, Vewin, the association of drinking water companies, is asking for the intention to improve the provision of information on discharged substances. Vewin proposes that companies must supply the licence holder with up-to-date records of their discharges into surface water. Because it is better to monitor whether one stays within the safe margin and, if necessary, to take early action to protect the quality and safety of drinking water. We don't think that's too much to ask. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. Many questions and concerns have been raised by my colleagues, and I share them. A lot of questions have been asked. I think I've counted over 60, so the rulers face quite a challenge to answer them all. However, I am able to add a few more on a slightly different subject. In any case, it is good to note that the substance PFOA should never have been released. In the future, we must prevent that. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister for Social Affairs has carried out research into this issue and is taking steps to prevent it from happening in the future. I have a question about the knowledge platform; the PvdA also referred to it. I wonder how business is stimulated to participate in the knowledge platform. It now appears that they themselves are hardly making any efforts to contribute to solving the problem. In order to enhance their image, it would have been a very good signal from them to contribute to this, but apparently they now need to be tempted to participate in the knowledge platform. That's a bad signal, isn't it? As far as the CDA is concerned, as far as possible, workers must avoid lengthy legal proceedings and incur high costs. How are we going to ensure that? Can an example be taken of the system set up for asbestos victims, the asbestos victim allowance scheme? The Secretary of State writes to the Chamber that she will consult with the province of Zuid-Holland, the GGD Zuid-Holland, the RIVM and the VU on a follow-up research under the direction of the RIVM. Has this meeting been there and what has come out of it? How long will this follow-up research be carried out? In view of the unrest, it seems to me very desirable that we should have more clarity soon. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? At the moment it is advised not to eat fruit and vegetables from the neighborhood anymore. What can be the consequences of eating these products? Does this land need to be cleaned up? These are the questions that I am able to add to all the other questions, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you very much, Mr von Martels. Now that the first term of office is ready, I propose that we suspend until 10:10 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	Before I give the floor to the Minister: I understand from the clerks, who follow this file well, that Minister Schultz is about drinking water. She's sending another letter to the Chamber. That letter can be dealt with at the WHO, the Water legislative consultation, which will be on the agenda in November. There is also a 30-member debate on the agenda of Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals on drinking water pollution. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The poignant signals from former employees of Dupont who have appeared in the news at various times in recent years are, of course, very disturbing. The people concerned are very concerned about their health. I fully understand that they are looking for clarity. It must be so that people can do their jobs in a healthy and safe way and not become sick of them. I am well aware that the fact-finding I have commissioned does not answer the questions that individual former workers have. They are concerned about their own health and perhaps angry about what happened in those years. I cannot remove this concern with the investigation and I cannot answer the question of guilt. The Chamber is well aware of this and has not been asked to do so, but I think it is important to say it, because former workers are also following this debate and are left with that question. Then why did we do this investigation? Because it's important to learn lessons for the future. However, I think it is important to stress that I do have a great deal of understanding for the questions that live with the employees. It should be stressed that the employer is responsible for the healthy and safe working conditions of workers. I cannot and will not accept that responsibility, but it is crucial that I, that the inspection, that we send from the government, that an employer also takes full responsibility. An example of this is that the inspection requested through a notification requirement to provide blood tests to former workers, similar to the one offered to residents. That has happened in the meantime. As far as the question of guilt itself is concerned, it is a good thing that the Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating whether criminal offences have been committed. The results of that investigation will have to wait and see. Employees can contact the employer for any health damage they have suffered. This also fits in with the responsibility that lies there. If an employer would not be willing to pay compensation, a claim may be made. I know very well that these are often lengthy, complex cases, and I think that is a bad thing. That is why I think it is important to improve the damage story and the route around it. A question has just been asked about this. I have previously informed the Chamber that the Injury Board is working on a proposal for a code of conduct. This may not help those concerned right now, but it does mean that I believe that this type of procedure should be improved in the future. Then the fact-finding myself, which I offered to the Chamber. As said, that is done to try to learn lessons for the future again, so that you can continue to work healthier and safer in the Netherlands. That is a wish shared by the Chamber in all different terms. This is not only relevant for DMAc and PFOA, but in general for the way we deal with dangerous substances. The fact-finding, based on the available information, described what the companies and the inspection did at the time. That information was fragmentary, so you can't get a complete picture. Nevertheless, I thought it was worthwhile to distill a number of lessons with the information we did get upstairs. At the same time, I fully understand that you are also critical of the results of the fact-finding, precisely because it is incomplete and does not answer questions of guilt. That also has to do with looking at the knowledge of today. Fortunately, we look with the knowledge of today, but that always makes a historical investigation difficult to describe, because you try to judge exactly what happened on the basis of physical archives, interviews with former members and so on. You can also see that knowledge about substances and regulations has been developing strongly over the past 45 years. But there's still a lot to learn. Even now, and this has been emphasised by several Members of Parliament, there is still sufficient awareness and compliance with the rules that exist, and there is still plenty to do to improve those rules. On the basis of the questions, I shall try to make the rest of the speech, Mr President. If it's all right, I'll go through all the subjects that have been discussed. Firstly, there is the question of what the inspection can actually do given that there is less capacity than you would like. That's a classic dilemma at the inspection. The inspection is risk-oriented, so that as much as possible is inspected where the risks are highest. Within the hazardous substances programme, the inspection project is currently under way for exposure to CMR substances. The aim of this project is to improve compliance with exposure to these substances in 30 large complex companies. But the questioner of the SP rightly says that more is needed. I've briefed the Chamber on the Inspection Control Framework, abbreviated ICF. On this basis, a decision can and should be taken on the future capacity of the inspection. You remember: there are a number of scenarios in what you could do with additional capacity. But there is also an analysis of how to build up a modern inspection and how to achieve more on the basis of the data and experiences that exist with your capacity. There is also a hardly disguised plea to increase inspection capacity. The SP also asked Mr Laçin about the pre-summer AD article. Of course, I saw that article. Over the past 45 years, the inspection has looked back at the company, but this focused primarily only on the acute risks to physical safety, and then on the acute health hazards. It has only been a few years since the inspection has also focused on health effects in the longer term. The fact-finding has described what has been done, as far as we have been able to verify it. You should be able to see this in the context of the fact that knowledge about these substances has also improved enormously over the past 45 years. Has anyone looked back in the last 50 years? That is also a question from the SP. Yeah, it's been looked over. But do I have a picture of exactly how many times there have actually been inspected? I haven't been able to figure that out. We know that the inspection has been there a number of times, but it is a matter of physical archives, in which you cannot determine exactly how many times they have been there. I fully agree with the questioner that, given what we know now, it is crucial that a company takes responsibility for the exposure to dangerous substances of workers, that it applies the rules and shows that workers are also aware of the risks involved. Then there's a question from D66. So what's the status of that specialized team? When does that start and how many inspectors does it know? Depending on the decision-making process with regard to that Inspection Control Framework, I would like that specialised team to be launched as soon as possible within the Dangerous Substances Companies programme, in order to be able to intensify further there. Do companies have enough information to protect their employees? There are two sides to the answer to this question. Companies are obliged to verify the information. This is therefore the responsibility of companies, small and large companies. But if you are actually looking at it, that is also recalled by the Chamber, then my impression is based on the inspections that we do not have that information in all cases, in too many cases not enough. So there's really something to do there. This will have to be done through the enforcement and control of the inspection, but also through the other hand, through the awareness of companies about their responsibility and through the exchange of knowledge on the effects of certain substances. But that responsibility lies with each company individually with the employees. So it is good to emphasise this very clearly once again through this question. What is the inspection doing against this low level of compliance that has been detected? Within the programme we look specifically at the carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances, the CMR category. Through these large and complex companies that are controlled, the message also comes from the importance of proper compliance with the rules on these substances. The four-step model is required to be used. This means identifying which dangerous substances the company works with, assessing the risks associated with these substances and taking appropriate measures to ensure safety. With regard to the specific team, for which preparations are therefore made but which depends on decision-making on the Inspection Control Framework, the VVD asked if that is not something for a new cabinet. Yeah, that's something for a new cabinet. We do not know exactly what stage the talks are at now, but I hope that the Inspection Control Framework, which I pushed through the mailbox, is there on the table and that people will cut through the buttons. I also hope that this will lead to an increase in capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Minister states that there is now much more known about these substances than at the time. However, the letter states that information on PFOA and its dangers was already known in 1980. My question is therefore what has been done with this information throughout the whole process until 2011, when it was actually on the mindset of the Labour Inspectorate. In view of the fact that companies can therefore have information on dangerous substances for a long time which is not shared, is it not necessary to impose mandatory measures on companies about sharing this kind of knowledge, so that they are not only requested but obliged to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	I understand the questions well and I think they make sense, given what we know now. I have tried to find out how the inspection was handled by the Labour Inspectorate between 1980 and 2011. I wrote down what we know. So I can't answer the question. I do not know to what extent this information has subsequently ended up in the inspection and to what extent it has played a role in discussions. I note that at that time the primary focus was on physical safety questions and then on the acute health risks and that attention to long-term health effects was triggered later. Would you rather have seen that differently? I do, but I can no longer judge to what extent that information was known there at the time. What we found out is in the report. What does this mean for policy and should it not be an increase? That is the second question. There may be criminality if you have knowledge that causes danger and if you do not share that knowledge. Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also looking into criminality. Shouldn't the rules be tightened further? In my eyes, yes. I have called on the European Commission to tighten up the Carcinogens Directive. I have advocated tightening up the reprotoxic rules. There are limits that are more stringent; I am also talking about this with the social partners. This is not about the criminal law aspect, but about the administrative and civil law framework by which you can hold companies responsible for their employees. So I agree with that on my own. I think the question of whether there should be criminality is actually just an ultimatum remedium. You wouldn't want to get there, because companies simply have a responsibility for healthy and safe working by their employees. If you knowingly mishandle that, criminality could be at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you for this response. I think the DuPont case shows that we absolutely do not need to have a long case for 45 years to get into criminal law. As a result of the sentence "I call on companies with up-to-date knowledge of health risks of substances to share this knowledge with other stakeholders," my request is for the Minister to examine whether there are any other means of achieving the obligation to share this type of information. So it is not a call, it is an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	I get the question. I'd be happy to accept that request. I can't schedule a deadline for that right away, because you'll be in the grey area between different jurisdictions, but I get the question. For the moment, I would like to repeat this appeal, because this is, of course, an important responsibility for anyone who operates in any role in our society: if you have information that may be relevant to workers' health, then share that information. GroenLinks' question is whether there should not be an obligation on this point. I can invent pros and cons, but Mrs Kröger does not ask me to find anything of that now by improvisation. So I'll just come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	I asked a question about when the Special Inspection Team could be operational. We saw yesterday that a coalition that doesn't even exist yet could just change something. Now suppose that what you put through the mailbox falls to good effect. When can such a team be deployed immediately? What period should we think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	There isn't gonna be any tomorrow. So if there was another surprise like that, it won't be there tomorrow. I very much hope that the forming parties in the financial choices they make will also be able to intensify here. I'd really like that. The various forming parties have also made regular pleas for this from the Chamber. So it should be possible. If so, it fits into the broader framework of the Inspection Control Framework. Then you can build quickly, because the thinking about what such an inspection team should look like is already done. But it also requires specialist knowledge. So I am afraid to give you a date of when it will be operational. But it will not be allowed to grow, because the inspection itself is also very motivated to be better at this and to be more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	It is good that everyone is motivated, but we do have some very nasty things here and public health is at stake. So you can give an estimate of how fast the manpower can get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	This is not about public health but about improving the specific monitoring of companies working with dangerous substances. Those companies are just as responsible for the safety of their employees yesterday, today and tomorrow. So no one can hide behind the fact that that particular team isn't there yet. Next, I agree with Mrs Van Brenn that it would be good if this were to happen quickly. I made that letter before the summer, also in the hope and expectation that there might be a formation soon and that we can get to work on it. The VVD rightly said: this requires quite far-reaching decisions. It's been declared controversial by the Chamber. The Court itself has declared the decision on the Inspection Control Framework controversial. Otherwise, I would have loved to do it. But now I have no choice and we have to wait for a new cabinet. Mr Van Aalst asked on behalf of the PVV why no company doctors were interviewed and whether the samples were significant and not manipulated. The research was aimed at trying to draw lessons for the future here, which is why I also started to do so in my introduction, rather than in answering the question of guilt, however relevant it is and however right it is to ask that question. The state's attorney's office is watching that. This also means that we have not been able or tried to reconstruct the exact working situation in the two factories. We have tried to find out how the knowledge development has gone and how the interaction with the inspection has taken place. We have also asked former members, who represented employees, to see if the image we received was consistent with their perception. So we didn't just rely on the suspicious company, so I say in response to the PVV's question. Those former employees indicated that they found the fact report recognizable, so they recognized themselves in it. This did not indicate that it would be useful to approach other stakeholders from that period before answering this question. I can imagine that it might be important to hear the company doctors get strange complaints, what did they see? This did not have any added value for merely looking at supervision. That's why it was set up like this. It has been quite a long time, was noted by Mrs Kröger. We still wanted to try to complete this fact-finding within a certain period of time. That is why we have focused on the things that would be useful. There was another question from the VVD about that inspection team. We've already talked about the timing. The question was: what problem does this solve? I think it is important to point out that it requires specialization in such a way that it makes sense to have that reflected in the organisation of the inspection. That's always a dilemma. Mr Dijkstra also said this: we are already so fragmented. Yes, you have to ensure that supervision takes place in its entirety, but you also need specific knowledge and experience, also to understand the business processes and to be able to quickly and adequately determine whether the sometimes complex rules are being properly observed. I think we all agree on that. So I think there's added value on such an inspection team. If the new cabinet thinks otherwise, it can make a different decision in that regard. But I found it convincing, precisely on the basis of this fact-finding. It then fits within the inspection in the integrated team dealing with companies with hazardous substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	In these fourteen pages, the minister of course describes a piece of the specific history of DuPont/Chemours. His conclusion is that it is difficult to learn lessons from the past and translate them into the present. Yet he does so already in his letter. He's trying with the inspection framework, when there's already a lot. Does the Minister share my belief that you cannot have all that very specialist knowledge in the government? You have a number of agencies, such as the ILT, that are trained to ask the right questions. Because the final knowledge is often among the companies themselves; we have to admit that. That's one. Then there's my second question. Think also of the REACH regulation. This was just the subject of an interruption debate with Mrs Kröger. European legislation is there. It's also about safety and how to work with chemicals. Would you like to include that regulation in the letter you're about to send?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	The first question is about a classic discussion: to what extent should you have specialist knowledge and to what extent should you better involve it in the market, because you know more there? I think that we cannot ignore the conclusion that a strong supervisor should also have specialist knowledge. Mr Dijkstra is absolutely right that you will never know as much as the companies you are researching, but it is necessary to focus on, invest in and train in it. It is indeed difficult to draw lessons from the past, but it is necessary. You can't say it's hard, so we can't find anything. No, my conclusion is that, in order for an inspection to operate with teeth, you have to look at the capacity but also at the effectiveness. For effectiveness, risk-based supervision is already better than passing on to companies at random. I think we can agree on that. But with these kinds of complex questions, where the consequences often become visible much later, specialist knowledge is simply needed. Otherwise, you look past things. Then you can have the discussion about size and how much you're going to bet on it. But that's a lesson I dare to take. Then there is the second point. Yes, in my letter on whether you should want to have an obligation to share information, I think it is appropriate to involve the regulatory framework in a broad way. I'll see if I can get that letter with the minister. The Secretary of State for I and M should make it together. You have general rules on knowledge and information about exposure and specific to employees. I addressed myself in my appeal to the employers, from my responsibility for healthy and safe working, but I can imagine that these questions are interrelated and therefore it makes sense to answer them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	I welcome the commitment to include the REACH regulation, which is precisely about the substances. I see that as a commitment and I welcome it. And if the Minister still feels that there should be a lot of knowledge in the government and that the government should also employ specialists, then perhaps it is an idea to look at former employees of the companies, who have a lot of knowledge, rather than training people from the bottom up. There are a lot of people who are willing to put their knowledge at the service of society after their working experience. Would you like to take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, that sounds like a good suggestion to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	The current monitoring has also been requested. I will not go into too much detail, but inspections have been carried out within that project. We've had a look at Chemours, among other things. There is also enforcement. It has also been noted from several sides that the rates of non-compliance are too high. So we really have something to do there. In particular, there is still no compliance with the rules on the assessment of exposure to dangerous substances. So we'll be back there, too. We've been to the companies in the spring and we'll be back. In order to avoid repetition, I'm going to ask what we're going to do from 2018, apart from an Inspection Control Framework. From 2018, as is already the case with complaints from works councils and trade unions, we will always have signals from occupational health professionals, including occupational health professionals and company doctors, handled by the Inspection SZW. So there's going to be a standard. Where the signals of trade unions and or are always taken on board, also those of occupational hygienists and industrial doctors will always be dealt with. There will be all kinds of extra information while we speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	The Minister first said that there is a risk-based approach to inspections. Now the Minister says that the signals from the trade unions and the like are being addressed, so that is going to be standard practice. How does the Minister ensure that when there is no additional capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	It is already practice that these signals are always being dealt with. It is precisely in the context of the risk-oriented inspection that it is wise to pick up such signals. Because those risks don't come down from the sky. That's what you have to use the signals from the field for, so from the union and from the works council. From next year on, I will add the occupational health professionals and company doctors to that. Should there be additional capacity? Yes, Mr Laçin and I agree on that and in my view the Chamber in general. The Inspection Control Framework has been declared controversial. It's been stopped by the mailbox. Undoubtedly, we will soon be told what the forming parties will agree on. I honestly have no idea at this time. I have indicated that it would be good to look at the limitation period, given that, in some cases, you can only determine much later what the consequences of working with certain substances are. The possibilities for this are currently being examined in cooperation with the Ministry of Security and Justice. A part of this is to see if you could agree on a longer limitation period for a number of specific offences, which the Inspection SZW is looking at. I'd be there for that. This requires a change of law. This means that this will also have to be done by a new cabinet. But we're already looking at officials to see if that's what you want and how that could be. This is a bit in the direction of Mrs Kröger's question. This also shows that criminal responsibility will be felt longer. Therefore, the preventive effect you always expect and hope for from criminal law could also be stronger, because there are certain offences that are subject to a longer limitation period. That's technically pretty complicated. Everyone understands that, so that's what they're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	This is a very valid point that you also mentioned in your letter. For example, we are now discovering the effects of PFOA and we have not used it since 2012. So the deadlines really need to be extended. When can we look into this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	It's official now. This should ultimately lead to a proposal from the new cabinet. I make sure that the thinking is already done in the cooperation between SZW and Security and Justice officials. I believe that it should lead to a proposal to grant a greater and longer limitation period for a number of specific offences. How fast they come with that really depends on my successor and the successor of Stef Blok. But I think it's just a wise idea. Gijs van Dijk asked why research should be carried out at all. It's a good idea, right? Yeah, it's a good idea. But how do you technically do that? You must, of course, well justify the limitation period and the offence involved. The fact that there are limitation periods is in itself also in order to protect an important phenomenon in a rule of law. You don't want people to be able to be approached a hundred years after something they didn't know at the time that it would be criminal and so on. This is also an important principle in our rule of law. On the other hand, it is precisely when it comes to exposing dangerous substances whose effects can only be seen much later that I think it is real. So we need to take a good look at that. The officials of V and J and of SZW look into this in consultation with the inspection. This should lead to a proposal from the new cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	So you're not going to send that investigation, which goes through the official channels, to the Chamber? I do see a need for an understanding of this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	I want to share everything with you, there can be no misunderstanding about that, but you want something to happen to it. Making legislative proposals to extend the limitation period seems to me to be something for a missionary cabinet. The question of how to proceed with this, you should also look at the whole of the control frame work of the inspection. I have no secrets on this point, but I think it would be better to talk to a missionary minister about this and ask the question: do you intend to extend the limitation period? I'd be there for that. Then there's the question of the knowledge platform. This month there is still consultation between TNO, RIVM and the Inspection SZW. Next, we will discuss with employers, trade unions and trade unions how to best design this in addition to the existing instruments. This concerns specifically the opening up and sharing of up-to-date knowledge on hazardous substances and their control. At the beginning of 2018, it should be clear what this knowledge platform will look like and to what extent it will be supported by the companies. The CDA is somewhat disappointed by the fact that we should tempt companies to do so. However, I think that is wise in this case. You want motivated contributions from the business community. If you put the heels in the sand, you can always see if you should impose an obligation. But if you work on this with companies based on their sensed motivation, it can be done faster and better. In the CDA's question there was a stick behind the door that could undoubtedly come from behind that door if no adequate platform was set up in early 2018. The second question is whether we are waiting for that. The answer is yes. I am convinced that this is what we are waiting for; we see the need for it. You have rotten apples, enough has been said about that, but there are, of course, a lot of companies that want their workers to be able to do their work safely and healthy and who also want to have the latest knowledge of how they could do it. Then it is important to make use of the opportunities that exist for this. VNO-NCW has also been behind this. Mrs Van Brenk has asked about the carcinogenic regime. I lobbied in Europe to extend the Carcinogens Directive. Commissioner Thyssen has now made a first enlargement of 25 substances. The second one is in the pen. That's quite a success, I think. It saves 100 000 people in the long term throughout Europe who die from exposure to these substances. All over Europe and over a long period of time, but it is indeed a huge effect. In addition, I have already indicated that, in anticipation of this European regulation, I will explore with the social partners whether you could and should tighten up the current rules, for example by making the substitution obligation for reprotoxic substances as strict as those for carcinogenic, carcinogenic, substances. That is what is being discussed this autumn. We are not waiting for formation either, because I cannot imagine that this process should stop or that it should be looked at politically differently. European rules must be put in place; we are lobbying for this fairly successfully, because then you will have a level playing field for businesses across Europe. In addition, the Netherlands has always taken the view that, pending these European rules, we would rather be safe here and make firmer agreements than not to do so. This is the subject of discussion with the social partners this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	However, I would like to return to the beginning of the Minister's speech on people who are currently ill at home. They are often in lengthy procedures to demonstrate that the work they have done directly affects their health. Because of that they are sick at home and some die because of it. Those are long and complex procedures. That is why the Economic and Social Council, which includes employers, employees and crown members, has said that it is important that it can be done more quickly. You would need a centre of expertise to demonstrate that causality in occupational diseases. The Minister writes in the letter that there is no support for it with employers. I asked him what that's specifically into. Can the Minister look into the heads of the employers for the moment and explain why that is so? What could the Minister do next? He also writes that he will soon inform the House about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	I agree with Gijs van Dijk. I have also tried very hard to create such a centre of expertise. You feel somewhere that it isn't right for an individual sick former employee to start a lingering business to get his rights. Such a centre of expertise could help to support people, make them possess knowledge and not leave them alone. I didn't do it. I have to look into the heads of the employers who opposed it, but I find that difficult, because I thought it was a good idea myself. I guess they were worried about the claims that might come out, but then I'm guessing. I would like a new cabinet to look at it again and do it anyway. Unfortunately, I did not succeed, but I still think it is important for such a centre to be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	That's good to hear from the Minister. He writes in the letter that he is currently looking for better stories. Is there any more clarity about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	Among other things, money has been reserved to help The Injury Board to draw up a self-binding code of conduct for the handling of occupational disease claims. I think that is an important step in this direction, but as far as I am concerned it is not the last thing to be said about it. It'll help. Perhaps it would be a good idea to answer the question about the money in the budget right away. It is partly about following the lessons around DuPont, including developing a knowledge platform, which I just addressed in response to the questions of the CDA and the VVD. Partly it concerns the development of a Code of Conduct for Damage Story, which is important for those who want to recover their damage. In addition to the possible arrival in the future of a centre of expertise, which has not been achieved now, there is a self-binding code of conduct that can help, also because the participants have committed themselves to it, in the recovery of damage caused by former employees. There's money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	Speaking of which, I have just asked if the Minister would also like to involve the asbestos victims scheme in looking for a possible solution to the role and position of the workers. Would you consider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	I did that to people who are victims of the painter's disease. If it's okay, it's almost done. This is a specific group, which has been extremely badly affected. I hope that I will be able to inform the Chamber about this shortly. Otherwise, my successor will. If the case is sufficiently similar, it can therefore be a road, but it is about a multitude of possible occupational diseases and forms of damage story. Apart from such a scheme, you just want people to be able to get their rights and the employer responsible for the damage caused to their health. I therefore agree with the suggestion that the lesson of the asbestos problem should be applied where the case is sufficiently similar. That's what we're trying to do with the painter's disease. But apart from that, it must also be easier for people to obtain their rights in respect of their old employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mrs Van Brenk asked on behalf of 50PLUS whether a legal framework is not a better plan. There is an extremely strict legal framework, and rightly so. There is a responsibility to ensure a healthy workplace. This is an open standard which once again emphasises how much responsibility that is. So you can't say that you've set a few ticks and that it's okay. It's really an employer's responsibility. We're definitely going to see if and how much tightening is needed. However, it has to be noted that not all the requirements of the Carcinogens Directive are relevant or useful to apply to reprotoxic substances. I have just outlined how I intend to proceed with the regulatory framework. Mr President, I have the impression that I have answered my questions. I would ask you to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mrs Kröger has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	70% of companies where workers work with or may be exposed to dangerous substances have not carried out any exposure assessment. That's a very clear number. Can there be an improvement path with a quantitative objective for how this is to be addressed? Measures have been outlined, but can there really be a quantitative target to bring that 70% down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	Certainly, all companies with which that has been established will receive a follow-up visit. They will have to comply with the standard. There is no excuse for this not being the case. I very much agree with the questioner that this percentage is far too high. It just needs to be phased out. All companies must ensure that they comply with the rules. That means they have to go through the four steps, including an exposure assessment. The companies that do not comply with the rules have been effectively established will be subject to further enforcement. They need to show that this happened. Otherwise there will be sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	Can the Minister explain to the Chamber the expectation of the drop in the percentage over the next five years? I suppose it has to be different. Action can be taken and policies can be stepped up. We must, of course, monitor and set a benchmark for how much we want this percentage to fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	The benchmark is 0%, because companies simply have to comply with the law. I find it complicated to put a percentage on that for the next five years, but the infringements detected will lead to follow-up inspections and will have to solve the problem. Otherwise, a company can eventually be shut down. There's a whole penal arsenal. I find it complicated to now... Perhaps I do not understand Mrs Kröger's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	You can explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right now, after years and years of policy, we're at 70%. I understand the Minister's outline of a number of measures to improve it. I would like to make it clear what the expectations are for the coming years. How fast can we get from that 70% to that 0%? If it doesn't go down fast enough, we can also say that we need to step up policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	In any case, I believe that policy needs to be stepped up, but then you come into the discussion about the Inspection Control Framework. I believe that a specialized team should be chosen, only that is independent of the responsibility of companies to put things in order. In the questioning there is a conditionality: if it is not within so much time, then... No, I find it and-and. All companies must ensure that they comply with the rules, big and small employers. In the case of infringements detected, this will have consequences for follow-up inspection and the possible use of sanctions. In addition, the issue is important enough to already decide on strengthening and strengthening both rules and supervision. So it's about those three things at once. I think that the fact that the enforcement rate is now so bad is precisely an indication of its urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	But can we as a Chamber gain insight into the expectation, for example, when it is halved? I understand that all kinds of policy measures are being taken, but you also want to be able to monitor or have that effect. So when do you expect it to be halved and go to zero, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	It's not a policy I make. Those employers have to make it. They're gonna have to be fine by tomorrow. It won't be okay tomorrow, but they're responsible for complying with the rules today, yesterday and tomorrow. That makes me wonder when I expect her to stick to the rules, not be able to answer them properly. They just have to stick to it, right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	Finishing, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	I understand that employers must make the policy, but you yourself indicate that you are taking a number of measures to get employers to do the same, with information campaigns and more intensive enforcement. So there is indeed an instrument in it to get employers to do so. Otherwise, you wouldn't have these inspection reports. So the question remains when we in the Chamber can see that it goes from 70% to, for example, half or zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	In any case, I will ensure that the Chamber is kept regularly informed of this, so that the Chamber can also gradually see whether it is indeed leading to a rapid improvement. I think that's a good deal. I think the subject is important enough for it. Of course, you have the annual reports from the inspection. I can imagine that you will continue to specifically inform about this compliance rate, so that seems very good to me. Only where it is about a target: this must be done by the companies, 100%. Everything we do is meant to make them feel that they have that responsibility and that they feel it if they don't. But I think it would be fine to keep the Chamber permanently informed of the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	As a follow-up to full disclosure to the Chamber, my question, which I had missed in the answer given by the Minister, is my question. I ask the Minister to send a list to the Chamber of Chemicals which are currently being emitted or discharged, which has not been proven to be harmless to humans, animals, nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	The substances that are and are not discharged are, I think, not entirely my territory. This sounds like a nice question for a long list, which I cannot send you. But I can tell from the Secretary of State's body that she is going to say something sensible about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Then I'd be happy to put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mrs Van Eijs, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yes, Mr President, I hope you will forgive me, but I was thinking for a moment, because I had a motion in preparation for that report on the limitation period. Minister, I would very much prefer not to table that motion if you could promise me that you will send that report to the Chamber. Then I won't have to file the motion and I'll probably spare you an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	I don't have a report right now. This is being worked on by civil servants. We could ask them to write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	I assume there's something from the investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	If you take a motion, it will bind a new cabinet. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	Then I'll do it with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr President, thank you very much. It was already recalled that on 17 May we also talked about the situation around the DuPont and Chemours factories in Dordrecht. Since then, indeed, the necessary has happened. You have received several updates from me, as well as from Minister Schultz, from investigations that have been carried out or are still going to be carried out. I am not going to repeat all the information recently sent today, but I think it would be a good idea to take the Chamber for a moment in line with what I see before me. First of all, I would like to answer the questions that have been asked about the exposure of residents and also give you an update of where we are now. This also applies to my second block of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger on blood tests. It has also been specifically asked by various groups what exactly is going to happen and how this motion is going to be implemented. I have some news about that, too. The third point is a much wider block with various questions from the Chamber on how to deal with dangerous substances. We have talked about this before, and I think we will continue to do so, but of course many questions have also been asked about it. At the very end I would like to say something on my own about the petition on drinking water. This has been referred to by several Members of Parliament. The President has, I think, rightly recalled that that is not my area. Minister Schultz will also send you a letter shortly. A number of studies have also been launched which are ongoing. I understand that they can also in principle be put on the agenda for a short-term debate, so I hope that the Chamber will forgive me if I am reluctant on the substance of the matter. But I can see why so many residents are working on it and are also worried about it. I'll say something about that at the end. Perhaps I should begin by replying to a comment made by Mr Dijkstra. To my liking, he is actually calling for attention to the morality of business, in this case the morality of the company Chemours. On the one hand, we are dealing with laws and regulations, but on the other hand, it is simply a question of how you, as a company that is in a tight spot, are having a difficult time and a number of times already by the competent authority, in this case the province, has been addressed to show you better performance, itself. With Mr Dijkstra, I believe that this is not something to write about home. He asked for my judgment. I cannot make a judgment as a licence holder, because that is simply not the role in which I stand here, or as a driver in this case. Part of this case is, of course, also under the courts. However, I can give Mr Dijkstra an opinion as a politician. And as a politician, I share the words he used here. So I think it's good that we know about each other. Mr Dijkstra also asked whether there would be, in my words, a death home construction at Chemours at the moment, so that they would eventually be rid of any investments they would have to make because this might not be financially viable. I don't have a visual on the background to the merger or the split-off. I'm not in charge of that either. The only government that can have an opinion on this is the European Commission, because they need to see whether there is a monopoly in these situations. When it comes to creating a so-called death house construction, we are no longer talking about environmental legislation, but about liability law. Whether and, if so, how a parent company is liable really depends on the conditions of division. But I can tell you that my point of departure is crystal clear: if a company causes mess, it has to clean it up and then it should not end up in the government. That is what I think we must continue to do in the direction of this company. Mr. Chairman. The exposure of neighbors. In the previous debate we discussed the outcome of a sample of RIVM. That sample showed that higher concentrations of PFOA are reported in people who lived very close to the factory for a long time, even today. Of the 382 people examined, 18 were personally approached for a follow-up study. And those were the people with a higher than expected concentration of PFOA in the blood. This study has been largely carried out at the moment and I expect to be able to send the report to your Chamber in October, with my reaction to it. In addition, this summer, Mrs Van Brenk spoke of the unrest among neighbors about vegetable gardens and the possible presence of PFOA and GenX in the cultivated vegetables. That was due to some measurements from the VU University. In the recess you received a response from me. The first measurements gave RIVM no reason to advise against eating vegetables from vegetable gardens, but because social unrest had arisen, surrounding municipalities, the province of South Holland and myself wanted to have more certainty and we thought it wise to look at this further. Meanwhile, the municipality of Dordrecht has given RIVM a research assignment. Perhaps you have also seen some images of RIVM employees who, for example, three weeks ago picked up the lettuces and tomatoes literally from the gardens. What's going on is that the laboratory needs time to measure the samples accurately. At the latest early next year, so well before the start of the next growing season, the final result is available. I would like to say that this has also been the subject of mutual consultation between the various researchers, the municipalities and my people, and that there is currently no evidence that vegetables are unsafe. That is the conclusion that both the VU and the RIVM have drawn in that conversation. The fact that GenX and PFOA occur in the environment is, unfortunately, no surprise. The province has, of course, already done research on these resources in soil and groundwater. I told you earlier that these results were also made public by the province in May 2017. All levels found are well below the stricter risk limit values for PFOA this year. These risk limit values allow the municipality to determine whether the quality of the soil and groundwater constitutes a risk to humans and the environment and whether measures are necessary. These values also take into account the type of use, e.g. vegetable gardens and consumption from their own gardens. I have, of course, taken note of Professor De Boer's statement. He didn't recommend eating out of vegetable gardens from VU. What I have understood so far, but that will also have to be demonstrated by the follow-up study, is that that is his personal opinion. He thinks that without measurements of vegetables, you shouldn't eat vegetables. Both RIVM and VU see no reason, even at this time, to discourage eating vegetables. I have to sail on that. Just to be sure and to take away the unrest that was still there, we have given that order to take measurements of vegetables. As I said, these measurements are for the next growing season. Then we just have a better picture. In situations like this, you should not cause fog or discussion between scientists. Then they just have to get back to each other again, and that's what we agreed on. I come to the motion by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger on supplementary blood tests. That motion was adopted following the debate on 17 May. You have asked, in short, to allow everyone in the vicinity of the factories to be examined. In reply I indicated that I wanted to carry out the motion and that I would discuss it with the municipalities. That's what we've done and that conversation has now been concluded. Here's what I expect, if I'm properly informed. We are now a little ahead of the communication that the municipalities themselves, because they are in the lead, are going to do, but I find it difficult to answer with flour in my mouth, so I say it anyway. The lectures of B and W van Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht are going to say in the very short term that they agree with the way we carry out that motion. Well, what's that way? The plan is that anyone who lived in the impact area for at least a year between 1970 and 2012 and has not been tested before will in principle be able to be tested. Then people can ask their own congregation, so at Dordrecht, Sliedrecht or Papendrecht, to be tested. They get a reaction from the municipality. If a positive decision is made, they can go to the local hospital laboratories for that test. These results only go to them, because they are medical data. We still have a few details to work out, so I'm gonna take a little hit on the arm, but we're aiming for people to apply for such a test at their municipality after the fall break for a month. The municipalities will also continue to communicate about this in the local media. I hope that I have carried out the motion in accordance with your wishes. Mrs Kröger mentioned the issue of biomonitoring. She said, "Can that also be an instrument?" Biomonitoring requires you to know exactly what you're looking for. In such a case, it can work well, but it just doesn't work. There are thousands of substances. As support for models or in specific situations, for example for PCBs in breast milk, it can be very effective, but generically not. It is complex and expensive, and it also guarantees no complete coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	Coming back to the blood test in Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Zwijndrecht: is it possible to collect the data that is personally given to the people, so that we and the rest of the Netherlands get information about what comes out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	I think that's going to be very difficult, because it's something they get themselves. They're private records. Again, I've already done something that didn't really interrupt the Reich from getting involved. But that's what the Chamber wanted. I've been talking to the municipalities and we've tried to do it this way. So I should check that out. I just can't say for sure right now. It is also sensitive. They are people's own data and I do not know exactly if there is a place where, for example, they end up aggregated. I'd like to check that out for you. I'd certainly like to do that. But I'm afraid to promise you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you for this commitment; that is what I think it is. My proposal would be to give this to the people who are being tested at the start of the test or to ask them to do so. We'd like to hear from you whether that's possible, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'll ask. Again, the municipalities are really in charge here. I can't force all that. It really depends on how people look at that themselves. People can say, no, I don't want to. Thus, the sample is, as it were, also impressionable. It is all rather complicated to draw conclusions on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	I have a question about the biomonitoring program. There are increasing numbers of substances in the environment which are stored in the human body and whose long-term effects are unclear. PFOA is one; PPA is another. There are several examples. Other countries do have such a programme. I understand that the Secretary of State says: you cannot monitor all substances everywhere and always. But would the Secretary of State consider which aspects of, for example, the German programme might be applicable in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	The problem is that it doesn't make much sense to us generically. We do want to do it the moment we start looking for a particular substance. I can't see that now. Maybe we can do that in second term. Is that okay? 'Cause I just have to ask. I have no idea what we're gonna mess up if I agreed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	I may have a suggestion to further shape your thinking process, Secretary of State. A step could be to look at the substances that fall within the REACH Regulation and to ask experts which of these substances are common and also stored in the body. We could take that as a guideline. We can also see how Germany has designed this for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	I heard. Perhaps then I can move on to the issue of dealing with dangerous substances and strengthening that approach. Biomonitoring really belongs to VWS. That's why I'm a little out of control. Of course, it's a program that, if you run it, belongs to the Minister of Health. I do not know whether I can satisfy you in the second term on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	My suggestion would therefore be to put it there in writing. Strengthening the approach to hazardous substances. Human beings and the environment should not be exposed to harmful quantities of dangerous substances. Our policy is also aimed at preventing exposure and removing where it occurs. As has become clear from this case, we sometimes find ourselves in a situation where we later find that there has been too high exposure in the past. People are right to ask: could we not have prevented this, or should we not have been much sharper in issuing emission permits? It is not possible to eliminate 100% of the risks, but in the letters on the substance policy I outlined two routes for structural improvement in the policy on substances, both at European level and at national level, Mr Laçin. First of all, the European level. Mr Dijkstra mentioned the REACH regulation, the European regulation on chemicals. It's been in force for ten years. At that time we gained a lot of knowledge about many substances, knowledge that we didn't have in all the years before. REACH's profits are paid for by a new emerging substance such as GenX, because without REACH we would hardly have known anything about this. Now mandatory tests have been done and there is a lot of information about the risks and also the properties of the substance, so that you can easily make a risk analysis. The increase in knowledge also leads, in certain cases, to the fact that we have accepted too much in the past. You should think about substances such as lead and asbestos. Chemicals policy aims to minimise that risk. We are making a considerable catch-up with the REACH programme. We now have records of over 17,000 substances more than ten years ago. At that time, about 2,000 substances were available. But we're far from there. More work needs to be done in the European Union to build up the substance files. The quality of these files also needs to be checked more closely. I have already indicated that I want to see European steps faster in the field of hormone-distorting substances, nanomaterials and the combination effects of substances. The Netherlands actively contributes to this with targeted research. In addition, we also have the national track. These are all actions that have been announced in order to avoid, as much as possible, having to deal with a situation in the future which we later say was too high a risk. I am in conversation with the authorities responsible for licensing and monitoring, for example the provinces, the environmental services and the water managers. It is our intention to adopt a pragmatic approach by improving the available information on emissions of substances of concern. For example, the province of Zuid-Holland has already started by requesting information from 30 chemical companies. Better information is very important to assess the need for tightening up of permits, for example. Businesses are involved in providing information, because that is also their important task. The fact that we are now working with six so-called Brzo environment services also helps to further improve knowledge of the substances of great concern in the competent authority. This knowledge is also used for licensing and supervision. I support the competent authority in several ways. For example, we have the use of RIVM and we pool knowledge about the risks of substances. At my request, RIVM added a number of substances to the list of substances of high concern. Furthermore, we are still developing an instrument that gives a simple insight into the very worrying substances that can typically be released by activity or industry. This brings immediate focus to the competent authority within the group of these substances. There are now about 1,400. It also updates the guide for these substances with an explanation of the legislation at present. In this way, we help the competent authority to operate more appropriately. In addition, it is important to be as little surprised as possible by a new substance or by new insights. It is important that we have knowledge available as soon as possible. That is why I asked RIVM to identify a number of potentially very worrying substances. Then we can pay extra attention to this in the licensing process. Mrs Arissen said that, in fact, Mr Laçin asked why you did not simply ban all those dangerous substances, point. It sounds very simple, and if it was that simple, it would have been done already. Both the Netherlands and the Union insist that chemicals are not used if safe use is not possible. The rules are contained in the REACH Regulation, which does offer opportunities for doing so. That Regulation shall ensure that substances placed on the market in volumes from 1 tonne onwards are in the picture. The local authority then looks at these substances of concern and how they can be prevented in emissions. If a company works with a substance, it must ultimately be safe for the workers and for the residents. To do so, the company must provide the burden of proof: it must put information on the table. If it can't be safe, you don't get a permit. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that's where the problem lies. In my view, it does not work in this way, because 200 scientists from 38 countries, but also various studies here and in other countries, show that the long-term effects of GenX on public health are unknown. So it is not at all that GenX has been tested safely or that we know what the effects are. Yet it has been used here in the Netherlands for five years. How is that possible? That doesn't match what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	The truth is, a substance can be dangerous. In industry there is work with worrying or harmful substances. What you need to prove is that the way you work with it has no effect on the residents or on the employees. That that substance is harmful in itself, yes, that substance is also on that list. It's about the conditions under which you can work with it. This is laid down in European legislation. The Netherlands cannot organise a kind of all entrance there by deviating from what is allowed in Europe and simply saying: we ban it, point. 'Cause then we really won't keep that dry in the judge's office. That's what you're gonna lose if you start a lawsuit about that. What is important, of course, is that there are also substances that are not yet on the list. There's a much bigger problem there. That is precisely why this regulation is very good, because it ensures that of those 2,000 substances from ten years ago, we now know exactly what effects they have. If there is no fixed procedure or there is uncertainty, then there is also the RIVM to assist the licence providers and ask: well, is there or is there no potential risk in this? On the basis of this new knowledge one should then be able to rely as a licence holder on the fact that this can be checked with the RIVM. That's what's gonna happen. That's how it's done. But that is something other than banning in advance all the substances that you can see from research that they are harmful in themselves. Because it is not a question of whether a substance is harmful, it is a question of whether application of that substance is damaging to the people who work with it and the people who live nearby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	So we can do it in the food safety chain. Then why not here? I understand that the European system should be regulated and that the system should be changed there. I also hear the Secretary of State say she's trying to make improvements. I'm happy about that. But I have a small other question about the list that has been supplemented by certain dangerous substances, and with a number of substances that may be very worrying. What are the criteria of the Secretary of State for this? She said literally: at my request, a number of substances were included on a list of substances of concern. What criteria do you use for this? And can you tell us a little bit more about what substances they are, for example? We can do that now, but as far as I am concerned, we can do that by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	I can't right now, because I'm not a chemist. So I'm not reciting any fabrics either. I ask RIVM precisely to do its job and to ensure that they identify with their knowledge what other potential, very worrying substances are being used in the industry that we do not yet have enough in mind. That's how it goes. That's their job, and I'm really glad they do. But we do not say ourselves from the department: they are these substances. I did mention categories of substances which we say should be looked at as a matter of priority. From hormone-distorting substances, from combinations, like GenX for example, we have said: we would like you to look at them with specific attention. So I don't know if it's necessary to write a whole letter about that now, because this is a bit of how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	I understand there's another letter about GenX coming to the Chamber from the Minister of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	Yeah, we'll take it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	They also asked who would pay for the costs of research. Mr Laçin also wanted to know whether it would be right for that account to reach the consumer. The rules on substances require companies to demonstrate that they have examined the effects of a substance in advance. Next, the competent authority will assess this. If there is a substance for which there is no standardisation, such as GenX, it is difficult and the competent authority has to rely on available information. In addition, the competent authority may also impose an investigative obligation on the company. That is what happened in the case of Chemours, for example. The costs of that research will be borne by the company. Additional research questions by the competent authority are also paid by the company. In addition, it is the regular practice that we regularly ask RIVM, for example, to analyse data and advise us on standards and risks in a general sense. Those are expenses borne by the Ministry. It is then asked whether information about substances can be legally required to be kept. I can answer that question, as I say to Mrs Arissen, from the environmental point of view. That is such a good idea that the legislator already thought so, and that is why this is also part of the obligations set out in the REACH Regulation. Companies must keep information on what they produce for 15 years after production has stopped. A very large part of this information is also public. The European Chemicals Agency publishes this on its website. A number of questions have also been asked about information that companies have to provide. Shouldn't we demand more from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	I actually want to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	I have two more questions in this block and then I would like to conclude with a few comments on drinking water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	I shall begin by giving Mrs Arissen the floor; I thought she was hardly interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	Was I right in answering the Secretary of State that companies have an obligation to keep the company documents for 15 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	Now it is true that the effects of chemicals on the human body often only become known after decades. That is why it is so very important that, in order to be able to carry out a proper investigation of the facts at the time when it is necessary and later, many years later, there have been abuses with substances that have an effect on public health or the environment, which companies still have which have business documents and all those studies on these effects. Does the Secretary of State and the Animal Party consider that an obligation should actually be imposed to maintain all those company documents and investigations permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	The European rule is now: until 15 years after the end of production. A company, which often produces decades, has to keep that data 15 years after it has stopped. That's relatively long, isn't it? Then the subject that needs more information to be provided before starting the production process. I don't want to set up a whole new licensing system. It is important that competent authorities make use of the information available. This can also be done by using the Brzo environment services well. We've been going a long way with that, too. In the AMvB authorisation, supervision and enforcement, which will enter into force on 1 July, the transfer of tasks to the Brzo environment services is mandatory. I am talking to DCMR, Zuid-Holland province, RIVM and ILT about how we can improve the provision of information to licence providers. Information on dust properties is sometimes available, but is not always used. That can and must be changed. Furthermore, licence providers should also be able to use RIVM's experts in the event of doubt about a substance property and possibly impose an obligation of investigation in the permit. It is a serious matter, and I think there are plenty of things that we still have to take care of, but we have to realize that I mentioned just that huge amount of knowledge that we have now more than ten years ago, that we have really made some big leaps with the policy on chemicals. It is precisely the company's responsibility to provide information that has now resulted in the 17,000 additional substances that we have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	The cabinet speaks with one voice, but the Secretary of State rightly mentions all those authorities with a lot of knowledge: RIVM, ILT, DCMR, province and of course the companies themselves. How does she judge the plan Mr. Asscher made through the mailbox of the forming parties? He says it's all going to have to go back to one center.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	You know that the cabinet speaks with one voice, so what Mr Asscher has said about this is also my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	So that goes in the same envelope through the mailbox. Okay, too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	You're just gonna get my stamp right. Mrs Van Eijs asked why the province did not intervene until so late. I'd still like to record it here for the county. Mr Dijkstra just said something about that. He said, "I'm right behind it." Every time there were signs that something could be going on, the province also intervened. They are really very proactive in that. However, new information on substances is always coming in. Knowledge is not a static thing. So if there's a reason, you have to act. This led, for example, to a tightening up of the licence by the province when it turned out to be a reason for doing so. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps, in view of the importance of the petition, several Members have said something about this, I should like to conclude on the subject of drinking water. Prior to this debate, the Chamber received a petition signed by more than 10,000 people. The petition shows, without hesitation, the compromised confidence these people experience. There can be no doubt about the safety of our drinking water, but people do now have that doubt. It really doesn't take me any trouble to understand that concern. I can assure you that this is also the concern of Minister Schultz. Your environment should not make you sick and safe drinking water is just a first need for life. The Minister stated in general consultation in June that she was also committed to good and reliable drinking water quality. This means that there should never be a higher concentration of chemicals than is justified for our health, even in the longer term. If there is a risk of an overrun, action must be taken quickly. As a result of that debate with your Chamber in June, she has launched several actions. On 5 September, a letter was sent to the Chamber describing the progress made. It concerns, for example, additional measurements currently being made by the drinking water companies for the presence of GenX substances in drinking water. All results should be in by the end of this month. Then RIVM can analyse these. This means that the Minister will probably continue to inform you about this in October. The company Chemours has also promised that the discharge of GenX substances can be greatly reduced by placing additional carbon filters. This is already happening as a test. That is a development that offers at least a perspective, but it will not remove the concerns of the petitioners, which I understand. From our point of view, it is now important that we can quickly show the results of the investigations. From the cabinet side, I would like to thank those who took the initiative for the petition. I hope that we will be able to present the results of the investigations to the Chamber very quickly. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that, because I think that the Minister will at some point inform the Chamber further. So this was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. We are going to the second term, because I see that there is a need for it. I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions for resolutions on the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the situation surrounding Chemours (again) reveals the remarkable situation that drinking water companies have no insight into what companies discharge into the (ground) water at what time;]] [[noting that drinking water companies can now only do damage reduction afterwards, rather than act in advance, when substances are discharged which pose a risk to the quality of our drinking water;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of an active information and monitoring obligation for companies towards the licence holder and the drinking water companies, so that it is always clear to them which substances discharge companies, in what quantities and at what times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is highly unsatisfactory for employees and enforcement authorities that there should be a limitation period of only five years for situations where an employer does not take the necessary measures to protect the health of employees;]] [[Considers that it is desirable that the Inspection SZW should be able to sanction (in specific cases) even after the expiry of five years, provided that the ongoing review shows that this is also legally possible;]] [[calls on the Government to send the results of the investigation into the extension of the limitation period to the Chamber as soon as possible, but not later than this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-299]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State and the Minister for the clear answer. I have two motions. I tabled the first motion in May, but it was arrested on the instructions of the Secretary of State. I'll read these to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	You don't have to. If you mention the number, the motion will be put to the vote again. You've already filed the motion and it's been held. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes, it is an detained motion (the Laçin motion on the immediate possibility of enforceable revision permits (28089, no. 40)). I will explain the motion very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	Perhaps a copy could be given to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	The motion deals with the enforceable revision permits already provided for in the Environment Act. But now that the introduction of the Environment Act has been postponed, I see reason to bring this motion to the fore. And I hear from the VVD, for example, that she is square behind the province. I do, but she needs more options to maintain. Now I'm filing my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the province of Zuid-Holland has indicated that its instruments for legally stopping the discharge of GenX have been exhausted;]] [[noting that Chemours has indicated in the United States that discharges to water can be prevented by seizing it;]] [[noting that technical solutions are in place to prevent discharges of GenX to the water;]] [[calls on the Government to consult Chemours, the Province and drinking water companies to examine technical alternative to current discharges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-301]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr President. We have co-signed the last motion of the SP. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the release and discharge of GenX and other fluorine compounds cannot exclude harmfulness to human health and the environment;]] [[noting that the public authorities have a duty of care to protect citizens and the environment;]] [[Whereas in the United States the discharge of GenX and all other fluorine compounds is restricted;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately prohibit the expulsion and discharge of GenX from the precautionary principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of chemicals on the human body often occur after decades;]] [[noting that chemical companies do not properly retain business documents relating to the use of chemicals and investigations on the potential harmfulness;]] [[Whereas a full investigation of facts is important in the event of abuses;]] [[calls on the Government to require chemical companies to maintain all business documents relating to the use of chemicals and investigations on the potential harmfulness of chemicals to human health and the environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-302]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen, Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I welcome the addition of potentially dangerous substances to RIVM research. I look forward to the Secretary of State's letter with criteria. I am also positive about the Minister's commitment to investigating an obligation for companies to share information. The situation with regard to Chemours remains frustrating. I would hope that the fact that a company is under criminal investigation could be a reason to temporarily suspend a permit. I hope there will be opportunities for that. I'm filing a motion on biomonitoring. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister indicates that the technological possibilities for monitoring exposure to hazardous substances among workers are becoming more and more appropriate, promoting the so-called biomonitoring, and developing it through projects at TNO and RIVM;]] [[Whereas biomonitoring can help to increase knowledge of harmful substances and their impact on health;]] [[Whereas, in addition to workers working with dangerous substances, local residents and particularly vulnerable groups such as the elderly, children and pregnant women should be monitored;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is currently monitoring only regionally on only a few substances, and that initiatives are being implemented fragmentedly at various ministries;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the possibility of setting up a national-wide biomonitoring programme to test a cross-section of the population on a wide range of harmful substances, similar to those in the United States and Germany,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the clear answers. It is clear that there is still a great deal to be done in the areas of regulation, increased supervision and increased enforcement. That's what we're gonna do in the next period. We will monitor this closely with the Labour Party, and we will contribute to that. I do have a motion. We have also talked about the people who are now sick at home and who are now in all kinds of complicated procedures, because it is very difficult to prove that you really have health problems because of your work. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that more knowledge and insight is needed in what causes occupational diseases in individual and sometimes very poignant cases;]] [[noting that civil claims arising from an occupational disease could be dealt with more quickly and better;]] [[noting that the implementation of a centre of expertise for determining the causality of occupational diseases has been discontinued;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a pilot to establish professionally the medical causality of occupational diseases in individual cases, and to inform the Board for Budgetary Treatment SZW about the feasibility of such a pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr President, I have one motion and then a friendly request to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has indicated that sharing (new) relevant knowledge on hazardous substances between companies and between companies and the public authorities is unsatisfactory;]] [[Whereas this is of vital importance to the health of workers and to public health;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of a legal obligation to share relevant knowledge on hazardous substances between companies and between companies and public authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yes, my kind request is as follows. Several parties have asked questions about water. We were talking about the purification and Vewin's request. My question is: could these comments be passed on to the Minister? Then we would like to receive a letter on it in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes. In any case, I will pass on to the Minister the stenogram of this part of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. I don't think all motions have been copied yet. A two-minute suspension is also requested. That's good. Then we wait two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. I will pre-advise the motions on the items Nos. 300, 305 and 306. The Secretary of State will take charge of the other motions. In the motion in part No. 300 the government is invited to send the results of the reconnaissance to the Chamber as soon as possible, but at the latest this year. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but "as soon as possible" may take a little longer. I hope the Chamber understands that. I'm not sure how quickly my successor will be able to do that. But with this motion, the Chamber clearly expresses that wish. The motion in part No. 305, van Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk, is about medical causality. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. It is in line with what I have just discussed with Gijs van Dijk about the desirability of supporting people who wish to obtain their rights in the event of an occupational disease. The motion in part No. 306, by Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Arissen, deals with an investigation into the possibility of a legal obligation to share relevant knowledge. I also leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I think it would be useful to look at that. I think it goes a long way. At the request of D66 and GroenLinks, I have already announced a letter on what you could do already. This is just another step further. But I leave this to the Chamber, because I can imagine, in the broader context of how you deal with information sharing, that it would be useful to have looked into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr Dijkstra, I see that you would like to ask a question about this. That can only be done if it affects your voting behaviour. The discussion has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	In my view, what is called for in this motion is the REACH regulation. So it's already there. I wonder if the Secretary of State might be able to reflect on that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	That doesn't really sound like a question to me, Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkstra is curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	Okay, thank you. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'll pass judgment on the other motions. First of all, there is the Van Eijs/Kröger motion on item No. 299 on an obligation to monitor companies towards the licence holder......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I've already indicated that I'm not the first person to be responsible for that. I also find it very difficult to comment on a motion on behalf of my colleague. I can ask the honourable Member to send you a letter by Tuesday with her response to and her assessment of this motion. I just don't feel free to do that here right now. The motion for a resolution by Mr Laçin/Ariës to item No. 301 asks me to consult Chemours, the province and the regional drinking water companies to investigate technical alternatives to the current discharges. In itself, I must discourage this motion, because it is really the competent authority that must take the first step in this. They have also said before that they are going to tighten up the licence. I do not know whether Mr Laçin has been present with this request in this case, but if so, I find that curious. Then he should have just done it to my people and not on a detour. We have not received this signal in this way. We are constantly in consultation with the province. We also support the province as a competent authority in all the steps it takes, but this goes much further. So I have no choice but to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	I understand the Secretary of State's answer. We also have contact with the competent authority, but this is precisely an appeal to the Secretary of State to take the lead from a national point of view, from her role as Secretary of State, and to engage in dialogue with the various parties. I ask the Secretary of State, also because we have been working on this dossier for so long, to show initiative and to go for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	In fact, I do not think that is a fair representation of reality. The reality is that the province is the competent authority. It must grant or modify an authorisation. We do nothing but support the province with the RIVM. So there are constant conversations, even if, for example, we have doubts about issues: how do you deal with them? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als het dus gaat om de backoffice, dan kan ik niet anders dan vaststellen dat we gewoon doen wat u vraagt.]] But I can't take over their responsibility. I just can't do that, and I don't think it's necessary at all. In my view, I had already voted against this motion by Mr Laçin, which has now been put to the vote again. So that's what's going on. That is what I am doing about Mrs Arissen and others' motion. in piece No. 302 which was also submitted in May. This motion concerns the cessation of discharges. On this motion, too, my reaction was: I am not the competent authority. So you're asking me something I can't do at all. The competent authority must take such a step as it would like, not the government. And the competent authority is the province. As regards the motion in part No. 303 you deserve a correction from me. I said 'fifteen years after the end of production', but that appears to be ten years after the end of production. So I'm gonna have to straighten that out. Sorry about that. Nevertheless, I do not recommend the motion; I am sorry about that as well. Article 36 of the Regulation states that the retention period under the REACH Regulation is 10 years after the cessation of production. If we wanted to deal with this differently in the Netherlands, we would have to impose an additional, independent obligation on European legislation. This is difficult to enforce given that this is often about a European industry and we are dealing with European regulation. It is not just bad news that I will discuss with the Commission whether it is possible to extend the deadline. That's what I want to do. We could take the initiative to contact the Commission and see how far we can get. That is what I am telling you. Before Christmas, you will receive a first letter about this to see what the reaction to it is and whether there are other Member States who would like to be more supportive of it. So then I'm gonna do your motion a little detour, but not like a national alleyway. It can't be. It can therefore be an initiative of the Netherlands at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	A brief response, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment, but I would like the motion to be put to the vote in order to leave it to the Chamber. But thank you for the promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	Then the motion to part No. 304 by Mrs Kröger on biomonitoring. I would also like to ask here: hold the motion. 'Cause this is really just chief sache for the health minister, really. You are now asking me something that I cannot see in the short term what it means, not even with my people. So I can't actually judge this motion either. If I had to do it, I would have to instinctively discourage the motion, because I do not want to get in the way of my colleague. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	Is there not a possibility of having discussions with your colleague before Tuesday, as was the case with the previous motion, and coming back with a judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	Well, you can just ask yourself a written question for Tuesday, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yes, Chairman, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	Yeah, a bit of a weird closure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
