ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Groot, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a little strange that I should be the first speaker to speak, because Mr Van Vliet has requested this, but unfortunately he has been prevented. I myself do not have any motions in the pen, so I take the opportunity to ask a few questions about the letter we have just received. This letter was sent in response to a question by Mr Van Weyenberg on the opinion given by Mr Docters van Leeuwen to the former Director-General of the Tax Administration. Can the opinion of the Doctors of Leeuwen Committee be sent to the Chamber as soon as it is ready? The Court may then assess the nature of the investigation. Why has the announcement of this investigation and of this committee only just now appeared in the Official Journal, whereas the consultative mandate has been running since 1 August last year? Did the Secretary of State know at all that this advice process was being followed? I'd just like to leave it at that for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. The same applies to me as to Mr Groot. I, too, would like to ask questions about the letter we received in response to the request I made yesterday in the course of the work. Mr Groot's two questions are also mine. I assume that the Chamber will receive the opinion of Mr Docters van Leeuwen. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State on this point. I still find it remarkable that, in the intense debate we had with the Secretary of State on the direction and working methods within the Tax Administration and on the cooperation between the Ministry and the DG Tax Administration, which also established a committee of wise men, we have heard nothing about this investigation, while the research mission, if I understand it correctly, is also about the working methods and the coherence with the administration. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. Why hasn't this been shared with the Chamber in any way? I do not think that is sufficiently clear in the letter. That's unfortunate. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on the discussion we had this morning with a group of representatives of the Association of Senior Officials at the Ministry of Finance. That conversation was about the IRS. There's a lot of work going on at the IRS. A comprehensive and complex reform is being carried out. The Secretary of State has done so, and my group has always supported him in this. However, I note that there is still a great deal of uncertainty, including some, almost basic questions. I'd like to put one of those. One wonders what the impact of the departure scheme is, and of everything that has gone wrong with it, the word "business accident" fell on the mission and the final size of the Tax Administration this morning. There's all different numbers circulating now. I don't like that. It must be clear how many people are going to work in the Tax Administration; whatever the number. Is it 26,500 FTEs? Are we talking 6,500 people? Or will there be a further decline to 23 000 or 24,000, also as a result of the financial setbacks? Those are big differences. I think it is important that this should be clarified, preferably today, but otherwise as soon as possible. This kind of ambiguity, including with the employees, is unnecessary and unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. I was very surprised at the fact that an advisory committee was set up at the Tax Office, without the Chamber being informed, especially since this is a politically charged subject and the group was set up on 1 August. I understand that the draft opinion is already ready. I would therefore like to be informed of the main points already, so that we know what will finally be in it. It goes without saying that, of course, the Chamber also wants to receive the final version. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. The Secretary of State's Investment Agenda has not become as he had hoped. I warned you about this. You have to invest in the IRS first and then see if people can get out. However, the Secretary of State has made other choices. I regret to note that the Tax Administration is not in good shape at the moment, especially when you look at how it is felt internally. The Secretary of State should once look in my mailbox or those of colleagues at the messages that reach us. I can guarantee the Secretary of State: it doesn't look good. We now need to get to work and invest in order to ensure that people are recruited. Hence the next motion, which calls for at least something to be done about recovery. There are billions of euros still to be collected. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tax administration has billions of outstanding debts;]] [[Whereas, following the reorganisation, the number of tax bailiffs has almost halved;]] [[fears that more and more attacks will remain unpaid as the Tax Administration shrinks;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to invest substantially in recovery and to start recruiting staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	I think that many groups in the Chamber are concerned about what is happening now, including the Investment Agenda. I hear from a lot of the Tax Administration staff that they would appreciate it if we, as politicians, also had a little more attention to what was going well. I think that's important, too. I assume that Mr Bashir agrees with me. Now much has been said in the Chamber in recent months in the debates. One of the things I hear back from staff members in the Tax Administration is that Mr Bashir has even made comparisons with corruption by employees around the departure scheme. I would like to take this opportunity to give Mr Bashir the opportunity to say that that was unfortunate. I'm sure he didn't mean to. But I also speak to staff members in the Tax Administration who find that extremely annoying, because it has created an annoying atmosphere. Would Mr Bashir say here in plenary that he has no reason to do so and that it was not intended to do so? I think we will then show together that we support the people of the Tax Administration in their often very difficult process and their difficult work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	Whoever followed that debate knows what I said. I did not say what Mr Van Weyenberg said in that context. It would be nice of Mr Van Weyenberg to look back at the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	It is a pity that Mr Bashir does not want to come back to that. I'm gonna call on him again anyway. I do not need to look back at what Mr Bashir literally said. He said that what happened there would be called corruption in other countries. Those were the words of Mr Bashir. Again, I assume that was not a reproach. If he really had any clues about that, I'd assume he'd have taken action on that. Hence my question. I think it is important that we do justice to the employees here together, including as a Chamber. I am glad that Mr Bashir says that this was not intended. But then say that again right here, and we'll take away that discontent. I hear from the Tax Office staff that they found this an extremely uncomfortable part of the debate. I am happy to give Mr Bashir a chance to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	I find it remarkable that Mr Van Weyenberg is standing here pretending to stand up for the staff of the Tax Office. I'm one of the MPs who has the most intense contact with the employees of the IRS. I talk to them regularly, I e-mail them regularly, and I see them regularly. Mr Van Weyenberg can see that I was one of the MPs who said at the beginning that we should not start with the Investment Agenda, but that we should first invest in people at the Tax Office and then see if people could leave. Then this is very easy from Mr Van Weyenberg, but also from Mrs Schouten, who is not here, but who also tried to put words in my mouth that I had not said in that context. I find this very cheap, Mr Van Weyenberg, very cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	I think everything's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	I regret this defensive reaction. I do not deny that Mr Bashir has always been against the Investment Agenda. He's absolutely right about that. He has a different view than my group. We wanted to see what was possible. I was hoping we could just get this out of the way. I regret that Mr Bashir does not seem to want to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	I understand that the campaign is starting, but I think this is really very cheap and below all levels. I would read the text of the debate again, as well as your own words, because you are wrongly trying to put things in the hands of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	That is also what you have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. The government continues to digitize the tax letters. That is at the expense of legal protection. That is why we do not believe that we should go to a situation where final attacks and such are only sent digitally, because half of the people do not open or are not connected to digital messages. The six-week deadline will then expire without people knowing it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for legal protection that taxpayers should be able to learn about the correspondence of the Tax Administration in a simple and appropriate manner;]] [[having noted that in the eighteenth half-yearly report it is stated that, inter alia, for post-claims, decisions on objections, responses to requests for a preliminary assessment and refunds by means of mediation, the two-year lead-in period will run;]] [[noting that these messages will only be sent digitally after these two years;]] [[Whereas it is very important to know in good time the tax letters referred to above, because they have a notice period of six weeks and are finally fixed thereafter;]] [[calls on the Government to send the aforementioned letters from the Tax Administration both digitally and on paper without the start of the two-year start-up period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you for your support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	There are four MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	With you five. I appreciate you supporting the motion yourself. I am still waiting for a number of documents from the Secretary of State for which the deadline has already expired. We are still waiting for the e-mails about the RVU tax. We have been asking about this for weeks, and several parliamentary questions have been asked about it. So can we just get those e-mails for next Tuesday? We would also like to see the original form of contracts, which are the basis of the work in the breeding room and the reorganisation. Those are Accenture's and Wyman's contracts. Like Mr Groot, we would like to have an answer to the question about the implementation of the Green/Omtzigt motion on entrepreneurs who have been affected by their paper income. That motion must be carried out before 1 January and has not yet been implemented. I support Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. I also wonder how many FTEs there are. Because it has to be, I assume for the time being that the Chamber will simply be presented with the report of the one-headed committee of Leeuwen's Doctors. On the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, this can only be refused if it affects the interest of the State, not if this affects the interest of the State Secretary. I can't think of any secret proposals that can't be mentioned in there. So I assume that report belongs to the pile of documents that are coming. I am very surprised that we have not been informed of this. Maybe the Secretary of State can give us a brief explanation by now. Otherwise, this explanation will follow next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	I see the Secretary of State can respond immediately. The last motion will be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mr Groot kicked off with Docters van Leeuwen's opinion. Let me say something about that. After taking office, the dg has sometimes expressed its surprise at me in the context of various aspects of his role about the functioning of the constitution in which he had ended up. He then let me know that he wanted to reflect on the management of the Tax Administration from the then institute, the board of directors. He also wanted to be advised on how to make the Tax Administration more effective, including in daily operations. He called me in. I always find it positive when someone thinks about how things can be done better and when he asks for advice from third parties. He indicated that he had found Mr.Docters van Leeuwen willing to do so. That's someone of a beautiful calibre. To be honest, I think it is to the credit of the Tax Administration that someone of that caliber is prepared to advise the new dg on a number of points. I have to say that I did so myself, because when I had a similar role in an honorary life in the meantime, I also asked for advice from people I knew both inside and outside the state service. I've always applauded that. Nor do I see any reason for myself to interfere in this role. In the past, I have not seen this interference symmetrically in an official role. Nor do I see any reason to report all kinds of personal advice or reflections to the Chamber. I did not see this as something we should report to the Chamber. I must also honestly say that, prior to this, I believe in June, I had some sort of conversation with Mr Docters van Leeuwen. I haven't heard of it since. I understand there's no advice yet. As far as I am concerned, it is also a little unclear whether there will be any. That is also a bit of the new dg, which follows in the footsteps of the person who asked for this personal advice. It is therefore unclear what will happen and when, but let me put it this way: if a formal opinion comes out, I have no objection to sending it to the Chamber. I will read it myself first, because I have of course not yet taken notice of anything. But all in all, I find it only positive when people ask wise people for advice for their own functioning or for the establishment of their immediate surroundings. I certainly do not see any reason to report it to the Chamber in all cases. I didn't do that in this case either. In the past, in general terms, I have not thought that this should be done in the Chamber when applying for opinions of this kind. That never happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	Of course, I am also happy that you are looking for a sounding board, but this is a consultative committee. It is published in the Official Journal, late...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	That's different from when someone says: I hire someone for a few hours to spar a little bit and reflect. That's a form of coaching. I wish people the same as the Secretary of State, I think, but this is something else. This is an advisory committee. What surprises me, therefore, is not that it has been asked for this, but that it is a one-headed committee. He can't deny that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	No, but as it came to me, it actually started with the fact that he wanted to reflect with a third on the control of the Tax Administration and the functioning of the board itself. That is the report that the dg rightly made to me after he took office. I very much applauded that. I haven't heard from him since. I understand that the report in the Official Journal was, in that sense, a formality, because it was not someone who was working in some sort of consultant role but someone who wanted to do this from an appointment. Then this is the procedure that goes with it. To be honest, I found out yesterday that it was there, but that is also a formality. It's also something that can be done. The dg has the mandate to deal with this kind of formalities on my behalf. This seems to be the way in which he has gradually formulated the request for advice for himself. I can make peace with that. I think the word 'committee' is great, but there are few people who deserve the title committee on their own and if those people are there, this is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	This is starting to look a lot like a debate, when it's actually a VAO. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	It's remarkable. The Secretary of State now says: I didn't know it existed until yesterday. This is what I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	It came to me yesterday, I just literally told the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	The report in the State's news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	The report in the State Journal, aha. But then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	The dg has informed me neatly of the fact that he wanted to reflect with a third. He also mentioned the name to me at the time and Mr.Docters van Leeuwen stopped by my office prior to his advice to the DG and spoke with me for a moment. I don't even know what that was about anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	Previously...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	I was especially impressed with the person and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	Don't mix it up. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	I give it to the Secretary of State to be impressed by people. I'd like to leave that to him, but I still have two comments. There will be an opinion, because the Secretary of State said: prior to the opinion. That suggests it's more than coaching. We'll get that advice when it's done. I'll assume it's coming off. The ominous phrase "I don't know if there will be a report" has had consequences in the past. We have seen this before with the reports of the works council. They weren't determined, because then they wouldn't have to be shared. I take it this report is just gonna be there. I understand that it also concerns cooperation with the political leadership, at least that is how I read it yesterday. Is this true or is this not true? If it is true that this is part of the advice, wouldn't it have been possible for the Chamber to hear this in the debate with the Secretary of State for Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	This Secretary of State knew exactly what he said, namely that the dg wanted to reflect with a third on the control after his arrival and that he wanted to be advised about making his direction more effective. I knew that. He formalized this later. In my opinion, that is not a bad thing either. I do not see that the wording of the mandate has been pushed out in relation to the first reading as an objection. In that light and reading the mandate formulation, I understand that the Chamber considers this interesting, also in view of the ongoing discussion. I have therefore said that it is up to the new dg to continue along this new route, but that, if a report comes out, I have no objection to sending it to the Chamber. If Mr Van Weyenberg asks if the advice is about this, my answer is that I do not know. I didn't see anything. It could be. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	The Ministry does know how to report to the press that there is a draft version and if there is a draft version, there is already something the Ministry knows about and with it, formally, so does the Secretary of State. That is why we want to receive that report anyway, even if it does not come to an end, because if there is a draft, there is something already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	I understand that there is a concept somewhere or a proposal for a concept or whatever. I do not base myself on concepts and I advise the Members not to. It is also extremely indecent to send a draft version of a piece of someone with such a stature who has been asked by a dg to personally advise him on all kinds of things related to his control. I didn't get a draft version and I'm just waiting. It's up to the new dg. If anything comes out of that, I have no objection to sending it to the Chamber. I will not in any way block the outcome of any opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	I find this remarkable, because if the Ministry is able to report that there is a draft version, then there has been some kind of access to that draft version. At least that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	Not by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	That does not matter, because if an official has been given access to it, the State Secretary has also formally been given access to it. In view of the fact that this has become a politically loaded issue, we believe that we should have this document. I ask the Secretary of State to take that into account. We want the report, even if it is a draft.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	Article 8 of the Decision reads: The Committee shall report to the dg by January 2017. Article 10 states: The Committee shall record its findings in a report. It has thus become a written report which will be published before the end of January. The Secretary of State has now found a bridge by waiting for the new dg to be appointed. The report will therefore not be made public in the coming weeks, because a dg is not appointed within a few weeks. I urge the Secretary of State to send this report to the Chamber before 1 February, otherwise we will suspend the debate by 2 February. There's nothing against that. On 18 January it was published that it will be published before 1 February, i.e. in the course of January. I'd like to get that clear commitment. This also saves a few extra arrangements of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	The movement between Chamber and Government does not go in draft versions. If the process is followed as described, I will not oppose it in any way. Nor do I have any objection to sending the finished product to the Chamber. In view of the fact that this is an internal request for advice from a DG in consultation with someone he knows well and has asked, it seems to me that the opinion of these two people is waiting for the new dg and the contractor. I feel a little suspicious about it, and I don't think it's deserved. I'm completely open in it. I also read what I read. If it is true that this report comes out in its final form, I have no objection to it. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	Finally, Mr Omtzigt, because we are really repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	That mistrust is due to what has happened in the General Financial Reviews. When it appeared that we had not been informed of minutes for six months, which said that half a billion had disappeared in one go. Should the Secretary of State wonder why there is any scepticism in the Chamber, that is why. Then a complete overview of what happened was asked and this thing is missing from the timeline. Let me make it clear that Mr.Docters van Leeuwen is given three times as much time to write his opinion as the Investment Committee. He seems to be getting much more time and resources for it, and that is kept confidential. I maintain the request to have the report just here before 1 February. I don't need an answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	You know what, let me promise you that I will let you know as soon as possible how we proceed with this and whether the date will be reached. The request is clear and I do not oppose it either. I find it positive when a dg asks for advice on an issue. I don't think that's right, but it's not worth reporting. That's all I have to say about it. Mr Van Weyenberg says something important, something I very much agree with. There are targets and budgets at the Tax Office. That's what an Investment Agenda runs through. I agree that the size should be very clear. That is why I have promised the Chamber not only to report the size of the Tax Administration over the years, but also the distribution over the main processes. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. All this will be included in the continuity letter. Let me finish it first when I'm sure of the numbers. Then he shall have it, for this is promised. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. There has to be clarity about it. All I've said so far is that I don't recognize the 23,000 from the burn note, but the numbers I do recognize are coming to the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	Very briefly, Mr Van Weyenberg. This is really going to be a debate instead of a VAO and that is a bit worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'll wait and see. The Secretary of State says he doesn't recognize the number of 23,000. I hope this also applies to the 24,000. Does he recognize that the last stand the Chamber has received is 26,500? Or doesn't the Secretary of State recognize that number either?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	I would very much like to get the figures right first and then Mr Van Weyenberg gets the necessary precise answer, not only over the years but also over the main processes. He is asking a perfectly reasonable question and I am going to work on it. He'll get that insight, too. With respect to him, I find it at least so important that the staff of the department get that insight. Mr Bashir says that it would have been his vision to first invest in people and systems in the Investment Agenda, then see if people can leave and then let those people go. That, I say to Mr Bashir, was exactly, but precisely, but precisely the plan. The intention was not to set up a departure scheme, but to use a work company. Work would first disappear as a result of the work of the Investment Agenda. Next, people would go to a work company, so no, I'm not talking about an outflow scheme where they would do useful work for things that were going on inside or outside the Tax Office. After that, there would be a normal way from work-to-work policy to help these people return to new challenges. That was exactly the plan. I recognize the term 'industrial accident' and I can tell Mr Bashir that, as far as I am concerned, it is one of the saddest industrial accidents in the entire period I have been here. So far I have not been able to disagree with Mr Bashir. I share Mr Bashir's fervent desire not to organize obstacles in the collection. He's filed a motion. I would ask him not to implement this motion until the letter of continuity is in place. There is a view of the Tax Administration, but also of me, on how it should deal with all kinds of processes, including collection. What does it mean for continuity? What does it mean for the inning? So I share his fervent wish. I can't help but share a part of his concern. However, I would like to be able to respond to this first. Then I would like to hear from Mr Bashir whether he still thinks it necessary to table the motion. If I am allowed to do so, I would therefore like to wait for my opinion on the motion and suggest to Mr Bashir that we hold it until after the letter of continuity. I sent a note about that. The continuity letter comes on the 27th. Then he was also tested by the Audit Service Empire and then we have the footage here. These are the images that Mr Van Weyenberg asked for. Hopefully we will have an answer to Mr Bashir's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	I was talking about the second part of the operative part of the motion, which is to start with the recruitment of staff. That's really important. If the Secretary of State can agree to that, I can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I missed the essence for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	The second part of the operative part of the motion states that the recruitment of staff for recovery should already be started. That really is a big problem. There is a training pathway. People need to be trained and trained before they can get to work. If you don't start now, but only weeks or months later, you've lost weeks or months. So if the Secretary of State can promise that he's already going to consider how to recruit staff for recovery, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	Let me put it this way. In general, I agree with Mr Bashir that recruitment must not wait for months. Can I take it in that form?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	I would like to refer the final results to Mr Bashir's review, following the publication of the letter of continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Until Mr Omtzigt I say that I do not think the DA is at all on the agenda. We'll talk to the Chamber about that first. The fact that a start-up period starts does not mean that there is an automatic move to digital. That is the agreement with Mr Omtzig himself, because he asked me at the time for that commitment. Mr Omtzigt was there himself. I made that promise and I'm gonna live up to her. That goes in consultation with the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt will not find it annoying that an 'and' is being sent and that this cannot be done before two years have passed. However, this does not mean that it will be a maximum of two years. There's good consultation on that. On that basis, I advise against the motion, but repeat the commitment. As far as documents are concerned, Mr Omtzig mentioned a number of things. We've already talked about one. I promised him a note on that. About other documents he didn't mention, I reported some data. I now notice that I have been incomplete in the note on what is sent when. I will put a note on it, which also addresses these points. I will take that other point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VAO. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. Let me take a look at Mr Bashir. Will you hold your motion until Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	I understand the Secretary of State is already starting to recruit staff. If I understand correctly, I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	For the Acts, I see the Secretary of State nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	I thank the Secretary of State.
