ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Tjeenk Willink in Box K. I would like to thank him for his willingness to answer any questions he may have in response to yesterday's letter. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Wilders. Speaking time is four minutes per group. After Mr Wilders we keep the order of group size.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u2	Madam President. It is three months after the elections and there we are again: yet another debate and back to square one. The engine block now looks like a tricycle with flat tires and again they haven't moved a meter. Once again, the breakpoint was immigration. The Dutch who look at the progress of the formation feel just about as Mr. Pechtold now looks: extinct, hungover, gloomy, wrinkly, a beaten man. For weeks, for months, no progress has been made. One has consulted by the sea, in a beach tent. I even read that one would have eaten stew at the informant's house and that one has walked in the sunshine in the garden of the Catshuis. It didn't work out. Of course, everyone could have known that if you want a strict immigration policy, that will not work with GroenLinks. Also the VVD and the CDA could have known that. In fact, they knew, because they've been negotiating with GroenLinks for 62 days before. That didn't work either. That too went wrong, just as far as immigration is concerned. If you know that, why try to negotiate with GroenLinks again? I see Mr Rutte standing here in the debate after it had gone wrong with GroenLinks. He said, I quote, that it would not happen at all that the VVD and GroenLinks would still be at the table together! That is what Mr Rutte said, and he did it anyway, against his better judgment. For the second time. Even a blind horse could have seen that this would again go wrong on the point of immigration. What millions of people don't understand is that the VVD is going to talk and negotiate twice with the left-wing GroenLinks, but zero times with the PVV. The voter made the VVD the first and the PVV the second largest party in the Netherlands three months ago. The voter wants nothing more than a strict immigration policy. You can do that with the PVV. And that's never possible with GroenLinks. Shame on you, Mr Rutte. Shame on you, VVD. Not only do you ignore those 1.5 million PVV pickers, but you also scoff your own VVD pickers by ignoring the PVV. In doing so, you will remember a strict immigration policy for them and the Netherlands. For I say to you, even if you trade in Green Lefts for the Labour Party or the Christian Union, you will not get that strict immigration policy. Because they too do not want a strict immigration policy. They do not even want, like the Labour Party, to co-exist or be, like the Christian Union, humiliated and excluded by D66. The Netherlands can no longer afford political games and standstill. The Islamic terrorist threat in Europe and also in the Netherlands is greater than ever. In addition to this, immigration needs to be substantially reduced. The Netherlands craves that. So I say, let's get to business quickly. The PVV is prepared to negotiate, as it is since the first day after the elections, on behalf of those nearly 1.5 million PVV voters. Stop making excuses not to at least talk to the PVV. It is not about the past but about the future of the Netherlands. It's about our Netherlands. It's about the future of our beautiful country. So take the election results seriously, take your own voters and our voters seriously and please take democracy seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. May I first thank the informant for the good start of the work? Unfortunately, they have not produced any results so far, but that certainly has not been up to him. I am pleased that the mission is to allow this informant to continue his investigation. I wish him every success in that. I will do my best to promote that it is successfully completed. I would like to make two points. Firstly, I would like to say something about the interruption of the talks with GroenLinks. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the information in general. I am disappointed and bewildered by the fact that this formation has stalled. Because it's stuck on something that I thought would be a small point. It was a comprehensively supported approach in the Chamber to large migratory flows, as we have seen from Syria via Turkey to Europe, the so-called agreements with Turkey and the question of whether you could also promote such agreements with countries in Africa, in order to reduce the large number of crossings to the Mediterranean. The agreements with Turkey comply with all international law rules. They're effective. They ensure that people who are eligible are given protection in Turkey. In other words, they're decent. They are supported by all 28 Member States of the European Union, including those with the most left-wing governments imaginable. Emile Roemer's dream: Greece. There the government consists exclusively of the SP. The dream of Emile Roemer and Jesse Klaver: Portugal. There the government consists exclusively of the SP and GroenLinks. That kind of country supports this. Germany, very legally and very closely targeted at legal precision, also supports these agreements. And yet it was impossible for GroenLinks to take this step. I find that regrettable. A coalition of VVD and GroenLinks.. and also with CDA and D66, but certainly with GroenLinks.. is not what we wanted. We didn't think before the election: as a VVD, let's go rule with GroenLinks. No, that was a long way from us. But the voter had put us together: the three big winners and the biggest party. Alexander Pechtold was right, he is often wrong, but he was right when he said that this is a coalition that connects left and right and has enough seats. I would add that I also thought that, if we really got to the discussions on climate, we could have gotten out of the discussion on migration and bridging the gap in society. I really think we could have gotten out. I think it's a shame it didn't work out. Honestly, I'm disappointed and bewildered. Furthermore, it is now very important for the formation that parties place the national interest above the party interest. It is important that we prevent the parties, looking into the headlights of next March's municipal elections or fearing the polls, from deciding not to join a coalition. I see that Mr Asscher wishes to intervene, but perhaps I can finish this and then speak to him. It is very important that parties do, as the Labour Party and the VVD did in 2012 by concluding a coalition in the midst of a serious crisis. I say to all the parties who want to participate, and that also applies to my party, if you sit in a cabinet, you will indeed not be able to implement your own election programme from a to z. In fact, you're gonna compromise. There will be points that your constituents say: "Did you compromise on that? How can that be?" Yeah, we did, and we want to explain that. We support it because there is a national interest to keep the country ruleable. Of course you try to live up to your own party and your own vision. At the end of this week I will go to Paris and next week we will have a number of mini-stops in Warsaw and here in The Hague with European leaders. There's a lot going on in Europe. I mention the arrival of President Macron and the elections in Germany, which may lead to the re-election of Angela Merkel as Chancellor of Germany. There's a lot going on. I call Trump in America, with an unclear and uncertain policy towards Europe and the fact that he withdraws from the Paris Agreement. It is very important for this country to have a full, stable missionary government as soon as possible. I will do my utmost, including in the coming weeks, to promote this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u4	Just a moment back, because it was just a quick one about the passage for which I am grateful to Mr Tjeenk Willink that we know it now. Since that passage appeared, noise has also arisen about its meaning. Does the VVD also accept the right of each individual to an individual review? That also means that you will not be sent back if that brings insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u5	That is exactly what is happening in the agreements with Turkey. This means that you are not entering the Greek asylum procedure, but that a test is taking place. For example, you are a Syrian refugee. As regards Syrian refugees, agreements have been made with Turkey; they do not enter the Greek asylum system. It has been agreed with Turkey that they will be able to use the asylum procedure in accordance with UNHCR rules. If they are eligible, they will be protected. This also happens in almost all cases. But if you crossed the Aegean via Turkey and you are an Afghan for example, then there are no agreements with Turkey. Afghans are outside the agreements with Turkey and in Greece they simply have access to the Greek asylum system. Then the first test can also show that you are a Turkish Kurdish, I'll just mention something, someone who belongs to a group of Kurds, for example the YPG, who may be at risk. Not all Kurds in Turkey are at risk, but if it could be assumed in Turkey that there are risks if you are sent back, you will in principle receive asylum in Greece. If you're an economic migrant, you're going back. So it's very precise. That is also exactly what we agreed in our current coalition about our agreements with Turkey. They're decent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u6	At the end of the passage we talk about tackling the root causes of migration. Right-wing parties are often quieter about that. Would the VVD have been willing, for example, to invest extra in development cooperation? Eventually it is a disaster for the migrant that he goes on the road, is driven out by war and walks through climate change. Is the VVD prepared to do something about that? It's being named now, but it's not being filled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u7	Let me first say something about the root causes. Yes, I am very much in favour of developing aid being used to counter the root causes of migration. Or that immediately leads to the need for money? Mr Asscher knows the VVD as a party that does not immediately say that every problem is solved with more money. The question is how to use development aid to combat the root causes of migration. That's a long-term approach. May I add that there is now the impression that the negotiating parties wanted to send people back to Libya? That was not the case either. There are currently at least three governments in Libya. Of course, you can't send anyone back there. It would be agreements that you are trying to make with countries on the coast of Africa and perhaps even deeper in Africa, but of course there are countries that have a functioning government that can also make proper agreements. Indeed, it had to be a broad palette, I agree, and that includes Turkey's agreement, but certainly also if you did this in Africa by making agreements similar to those with Turkey. This means investing in the economic potential of countries, taking away the cause for people to cope, countering instability in the region and promoting stability as we do in Mali, and at the same time destroying the business model that causes so many deaths in the Mediterranean. Ultimately, we need a decent system that meets all international standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u8	The VVD Group has not had such a good record in protecting the climate in recent years, but it has also ratified the agreement reached in Paris and the VVD Congress has called on the group to step up its efforts on climate change. How much does Mr Rutte want the Treaty of Paris to really be implemented in the Netherlands, in Europe and, of course, in the world? How bad does he want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u9	I would like that very much, because it is very important for three reasons. Firstly, it is important because we are dealing with global warming. For example, in parts of Africa, it is now leading to a major drought. We also see that this leads to regional conflicts. For example, the conflict in Yemen, but to some extent also the conflicts in other parts of the region, can also be related to it. That can only increase if we do not get this under control. Plus all the humanitarian consequences. The second reason is that we know that natural resources are running out. So we're gonna have to. There must be a transition. The third reason is that we are looking for new sources of economic growth. The Netherlands, with its innovative industry, its universities and its excellent entrepreneurs, is able to make this an opportunity. We are already doing this worldwide, for example, in the fight against water and feeding 9 billion people by 2050 in a way that does not harm the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u10	It is good to hear that Mr Rutte is in any case successful in recognising the need to tackle global warming, also in view of the unimaginable flows of refugees that, if we do not, will result. But isn't it obvious for the VVD to opt for progressive, because there are supporters there who can help the VVD to implement the Paris climate agreement in the Netherlands as well as possible? A route on conservative with the CDA will not allow Mr Rutte's wish to be fulfilled so quickly and easily. In other words, is the VVD prepared to seriously explore the possibilities with progressive parties in the interests of the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u11	The Animal Party has committed itself to something, namely that the CDA would be against the agreements in Paris, against the approach to global warming and against climate agreements. That's bullshit. In the last three months, I have seen nothing in my contacts with the leader of the CDA and his second, that there would be any doubt as to the need to take these measures. But the CDA, like the VVD, is a party that tries to do that in a bit of a business way, so without driving into the Dutch economy. What I had liked about a combination of these parties with GroenLinks, is that that was possible. I am absolutely convinced that it would have been possible to present a coalition agreement with which you would not harm the Dutch economy, even more so, which would remove new sources of economic growth and at the same time address the major issues of climate, environment and energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u12	Madam President. Yesterday the talks on the formation of a cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks were stranded for the second time. The informant has sent a letter about the background to this breach. I fully agree with his presentation of the outcome. There has been, I might add, a lot of demand over the last few weeks for this informant's patience. I would like to emphasise that I have great admiration for the way he has always had the conversations, often at the most crazy times and in the most surprising compositions. I would like to thank him for that. My disappointment at the outcome of the whole thing is great. Over the last few weeks, we have talked intensively with VVD, D66 and GroenLinks, in particular on the issue of migration. Eventually GroenLinks could not live with the final proposal of the informer on European agreements with third countries. It would, in the words of GroenLinks, come under a lower level of principle. I find that as incomprehensible as it is unbelievable. Because that would mean that European judges, international scholars, the European Commission, all governments and all parliaments would be below that lower level of principle by now. After all, what we are talking about is nothing more than the policy that has been advocated by Europe for many years and the policy that has already been applied towards Turkey. The aim of the agreements that Europe has made and intends to make is to prevent gambled boats from crossing from North Africa even longer by providing a legally pure procedure and safe reception in the region. I believe that we have also discussed the desirability of this in this Parliament. This policy is not only necessary and sensible, but it is also simply the European reality of the world around us. You can't suddenly deny that world in a paper coalition agreement. No cabinet can start like this. And so the requirement of GroenLinks not to cooperate is an absolutely impossible requirement. Now we're back to square one, for the second time this formation. Fortunately, the informant has identified his report as "intermediate report." He is willing to continue on this difficult, winding path of government formation. The CDA is willing to continue to build a stable majority cabinet that can count on fruitful cooperation in both the First and Second Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u13	Madam President. The second attempt to create a cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks failed. This is extremely disappointing for me and for my group, which had one mission: to make this formation attempt work. We put a lot of energy into it, like my colleagues, for three months. Under the guidance of the informant, who in his own, formidable manner has been raging over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u14	That's what happened. I am grateful to him for that. The atmosphere at the table was not always good. That would also have been a wipe sign, because without friction there will be no shine. That it lacked political will, I cannot and will not believe. The fact that we have once again shown the country a sign of political impotence is embarrassing enough for politics as a whole. A solution to the breakpoint on migration in the first attempt at formation with GroenLinks was ultimately not possible, while the view was always present. Unbelievably unfortunate, said the informant. And so it is, also because we do not have the opportunity to implement the Paris agreement on climate change ambitiously, to reduce social inequality and to play a leading role on the European stage. This was the opportunity in the Netherlands for the political center, to show that it does succeed. Like Macron, it was an opportunity to counter the instability in a world beyond the UK Brexit at European level. All that wasn't going to happen anymore. Well, there was a visual on it. It was a fixable fracture. It was the informant who beat his own picket poles at the start of his work. He would never cooperate in political agreements that are at odds with our legal order, with international treaties and with the Refugee Convention. That has not been the case for a moment either. Everything happened within the rule of law, within the limits of law, nationally and internationally. In the end, the question arises as to which side of the risk you are going to stand in a situation where the future is not as fixable as you would like it to be. That is why maximum guarantees have been sought. They were there, as far as possible if you're one of 27 countries. Waterproof guarantees for an uncertain future cannot be given. They don't exist. How cynical, how harsh is it actually when you consider that people smugglers send refugees for money into the sea in boats that are anything but waterproof? They will remain if you are unable to take administrative responsibility. Has my group learned from the Turkey agreement? Yes, we do. International conventions, legal safeguards, aren't worth anything until you apply them. A judicial test on the Turkey agreement is not yet available. We'll wait for them, too. But one thing's for sure. What was on the table in the final phase is already better than the Turkey agreement. A possible future European agreement on refugee reception will lead the experience gained and judicial judgements. There was also that guarantee. No one has been held to the impossible. I haven't been tempted to the unreasonable. Mr. Chairman. I refuse to believe that it would be impossible to form a stable cabinet with a large majority in parliament from the political centre, the political centre that links progressive and conservatively, capable of responding to the major issues of today's day, national and international.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u15	However, Mr Pechtold's willingness to send people back under these basic limits is reflected. That's what I read, what I hear and what I'm told. Surely that is a huge discrepancy with the ardent argument for human rights and international treaties that we have just heard? How, then, does Mr Pechtold experience this reproach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u16	I do not know whether that reproach is directed at me and I do not know what the lower limit of principle is. I have been looking for this for three months, but at least I haven't hit it in a way I say: I have to attack the ideas of D66. I understand that you have taken the attachment text of the informant to you by now, and that you saw nothing strange about it. One of my colleagues was right to ask what the root causes are. That, of course, was also discussed. The extremely sensitive issue of migration, of integration, of asylum was discussed, and we must not forget that a Chamber with today's right-wing majority sought balance, acceptance, vision of the future, to ensure that we could take steps today but, above all, in the medium and longer term, as Europe, we would find a response to this inhumane, horrific problem of the Mediterranean. All the guarantees have been there for me. I haven't doubted for a moment that we should do that violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u17	However, you are now going through life as someone who has not even seen that lower level of principle, so that almost makes it worse. There's a bottom line of principle and you haven't seen him. Either that border has been broken or violated elsewhere at the table; that could be another possibility, that we see the tip of an iceberg, the tip that is in accordance with our standards and values and with our international principles, while underneath things still happen that cannot be done. My question is, therefore, where you talk about political unwillingness: are you talking about the CDA, about the VVD or about GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u18	I am in any case in favour of going into the first part of his interruption in good company when Mr Asscher says: I have also read the text and I did not see it as a principle, a limit, let alone a lower limit, which the PvdA would not be able to go through. That would also be strange from the PvdA, because the PvdA was closely involved in the Turkey agreements. I thought that was a courageous attempt by Mr Samsom to start something. I thought that the combination with the granting of visas and the supervision of the European Union was why it was also called a 'deal', and I can no longer hear that word again. But also the PvdA was willing to move on. Mr Asscher's second question is about political unwillingness. There were four of us at the table, under a very skilful presidency, in which many of us were not called apart for a while, but were questioned for a long time, in an extremely pleasant but intrusive way. We have found together that it does not succeed, after so many attempts, after so many attempts to listen to the other, to see where the problem is, even after practicing to convey those certainties if we were to be questioned, because people do not know in advance what will happen. Then the concepts of "unwill" and "impower" apply to the whole company, including myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u19	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u20	Last question. I wasn't there in several reconstructions, and Mr Pechtold was, so it's a good thing that there's more transparency about it. What role has this requirement played in the final halting of formation? That remains unclear now, while it gives the impression that it could have been part of an exchange. That therefore immediately makes that lower level of principle interesting. Had that wish been expressed, and if it had been accepted, would that lower level of principle have been agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u21	Resettlement will always be part of the total agreement you make with countries with each appointment, including with the Turkey agreement and with future agreements. The frustrating thing is that countries such as Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands always focus on this and that the Balten, the Portuguese and parts of the Eastern bloc do not. Just working together in the European Union, together, together at home, including in these difficult areas, would have made it possible for resettlement to take place properly on European territory. Since this piece was the final conclusion of the informant, I find it a little difficult to go along with you in what preceded it. I notice that there is a lot of reconstruction going on, but let me just say that I will take that for my own account: I have had the feeling several times: we are here, now it is possible... and then again it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u22	I can only hope that the basic principles of justice are defended in those formation talks. If you look a little further forward in history, it has something strange at the same time, because global warming will create incredibly inhumane situations, with the resulting flows of refugees being unsustainable and insoluble. That's the expectation if we can't manage to stop global warming. In this context, I would like to ask Mr Pechtold whether it is obvious that with the VVD, which is the largest party in which it is already difficult to get it moving for the climate, and with the CDA, the great retardant when it comes to climbing measures, a coalition. Is this the preferred coalition for D66 or should it be on a more progressive course because there are more opportunities to tackle these underlying problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u23	In the latter beginning: yes, CDA and VVD are the conservative side of the spectrum and D66 is and remains in search of balance with a progressive partner in this whole. I'd say that's where my frustration is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u24	The SP!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u25	Does the real leader of the VVD want his mouth...? I'm just having a word with Mrs. Ouwehand. In all seriousness, there's my frustration. Indeed, you are talking about shelter, boats and everything, but the cause is not only the war in Syria and is not only what you read about poverty or prosperity in North Africa and below. One of the future causes for the next generation is the climate change that sub-Sahel is going to make it unliveable and people fleeing. It is precisely this long term that makes the combination with GroenLinks so interesting for me: humane, just and constitutional asylum policy, combined with ambitious, progressive, internationally oriented climate policy. Those things have everything to do with it. They were therefore named the most difficult but, as far as I am concerned, with sufficient support together, also the most challenging. One thing I can guarantee you: the Paris agreements stand. That's the signature of our prime minister underneath. D66, in whatever combination we may end up in, will ensure that it leads to Dutch policy. And then I come to Mrs Ouwehand of the VVD and the CDA's assessment. I found it different at the table. I have seen real willingness to make this a success too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u26	It would be nice if that were true, but the signs point to the fact that it is a very difficult task alone to get the VVD in the direction of actually converting the Paris Agreement into fundamental and working policies. I do not want to ask Mr Pechtold to repeat that he excludes the other Christian parties in the formation. Nevertheless, in view of the importance of the climate approach, I strongly invite him to make the look more progressive. Only a progressive course can get the VVD. With the CDA, we don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u27	I don't know if these six pie points are exactly 90 degrees, but let me say that I do see 80% of them in my view of progressive pie points here and there a little conservative-progressively. As far as D66 is concerned, there is that space, provided it is stable, provided it connects, provided that at the start of the cabinet not half of the Netherlands thinks: we are not represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u28	That's a good starting point. A debate like today is meant to look back, but also to look forward. With regard to this preview, Mr Pechtold has indicated in the past, but also today, that he wants to have a balance sheet. He wants a balance between left and right and a balance between progressive and conservative. He wants a majority in both chambers. I would ask Mr Pechtold to be more specific. When we look at the different possibilities, we actually see that there is little left. We got the SP. The SP has indicated countless times that she doesn't want to. The PvdA is searching for the lower limit. We're leaving the Christian Union. My specific question to Mr Pechtold is whether he is prepared to negotiate with the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u29	Do you always interfere with someone else's party? I thought you were here to offer me something!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u30	I can offer something myself, but I asked a very specific question to Mr Pechtold and I would appreciate it if he answered it. I understand the question is very difficult for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u31	No, he'll stay the way I've been answering him for weeks. I would like to challenge every group chairman to put on the table as many variations as I have done over the last three months. That's a lot of them. I almost lost count at some point. I think I'm over five when it comes to opportunities that I was seriously prepared to explore. Sometimes a party name rhymes with "no," but I say that five years ago the SP sounded like "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u32	I know Mr Pechtold's preference for getting the SP to the negotiating table, but that was not my question. I would be so grateful if I could get a serious answer to the question I just asked. That question is very specific: is D66 prepared to sit at the negotiating table with the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u33	Not only have Mr Segers and I come to a joint conclusion after our long talk with informant Schippers, but I have also found that the Christian Union has expressed itself with this informant not to want D66. It has even put on the table a variant, another coalition in which D66 does not participate. I therefore fall back on the conclusion that we reached jointly after a detailed discussion. I have just mentioned the reason for this twice, in my text and in my answers. It needs to be stable and it needs to connect left and right. There are many steps to the task of this informant. There are still some interesting party names in between, which I'm going to look at quietly. I also understand that the informant wants to take that rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u34	Mr. Chairman. It didn't work again. And that sucks. After 60 days, our first attempt is stranded. After that it was not obvious that GroenLinks would sit at the table again. I believe that several parties, including myself, indicated that at the time in the Chamber. At that time, conversations started again and it turned out that there was actually no other combination where there were no pre-blocks to start talking to each other. From the realization that it is important that the Netherlands quickly gets a cabinet again, a good cabinet that can work on the big challenges of this time, we sat down at the table to see if we could solve the difference, the breaking point, of 15 May. The border that GroenLinks then drew, and which we are still drawing, is that we believe that you cannot send back political refugees. This is where political refugees and war refugees come in. However, I felt that we should make an effort to see if we could untangle the knot, if we could perhaps get closer together, if I could convince the others to move my way or if there was room to slide on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u35	By constantly saying that you don't want to send people back, you consciously create the image that you send people into danger. It is a fundamental principle that we do not. GroenLinks tweeted ten minutes ago: "This is a lower limit for us. We're not going under there. Not even if others put us on the spot." You totally feel that we have the basic lower limit here. It also says: "We send people fleeing war and violence, not back to countries where we do not know if they are safe." Isn't that exactly what it says in the summary of Tjeenk Willink? The non-refoulement principle is the principle that you don't send people back into danger. Where does the text, according to GroenLinks, say that people are being sent back into danger? 'Cause I don't think anyone wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u36	In the previous debate, it has already been very clearly stated that everyone wants to comply with international law and thus also with the Refugee Convention. That indeed means the right to non-refoulement: the right not to be returned to the area from which you come if you are in danger. However, as I have said on many occasions, we are concerned not only with the legal wordings that we know how to find, and which have also been found in the conclusion of the informant, but also with the practice in a country. We were talking about a situation in the future, but the situation in Turkey is the only one we can judge now. And in the reports on dealing with Syrian refugees in Turkey, you can read that refugee children are forced to work there in textile factories and that they have no right to or access to education. That is why I say: I do not think that is a safe country to send war refugees back to. For me, too, there is no need to send these war refugees back at the moment, because there are no large numbers of them coming to Europe at all. In the first five months of this year 37 000 people arrived in Italy, of which only 10% would be covered by the Refugee Convention. Why this focus on creating safe third countries? There are no such things; we have to make them. I think the odds are very small, and I think, I'm afraid, and I see that we're going to fall under a standard that I don't want to get under. This while we can also focus on sending back all those other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u37	And yet this isn't right. It's a very long answer, but it doesn't add up. My question was: where does it say that people or parties in this Chamber want to send refugees back to places where it is not safe? I fully agree with you, Mr Klaver: if that does happen, you must stop it. Then you're gonna have to go to court. There are already court rulings in which sending people back is not allowed. So there is something else going on here, and in the second part of your answer that was discussed. You simply think that people should not be returned to safe countries either. After all, you're bringing in the numbers. So be clear about that. Because we share that fundamental lower limit with you. That is quite clear. It is precisely what can be done better with regard to the Turkey deal that could be laid down in new agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u38	Again, I don't think you should send back war refugees or political refugees. I've been very clear about that. Given the practice in Turkey, I have little confidence that we would be able to get the practice right in other countries. I don't want to send those people back. I believe that we, too, as Europe, have a responsibility to absorb these people, to take away the root causes and to prevent migration into Africa. All that sort of thing could be arranged with us, but not at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u39	If Macron and Merkel or Macron and Schulz can always make better agreements with Tunisia, a safe third country, in which Europe-funded shelter is made possible, do you think the Netherlands should try to block these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u40	I have the same opinion on this as on the Turkey deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u41	In your opinion, therefore, the Netherlands should be the only country to have such agreements...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u42	You're asking the question. This is the same approach we have adopted in the case of the Turkey deal. If I do not agree that something is really a safe third country, I do not think that you should make those agreements with each other. I hope, like you, that Schulz... but I don't know how it's gonna turn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u43	But it wasn't about Turkey for a while. It was about Tunisia, where European-funded UNHCR-led reception would be. That kind of arrangement is made. We can all check it out. But you still think the Netherlands should block that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u45	But why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u46	Because it is important that we receive people fleeing war and violence. If the situation there is not safe and in our opinion it is not good...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u47	But it's safe there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u48	No. We don't know what it's like there, considering the future. But when I look at Turkey and see that refugee children, Syrian children, do not receive education there and that they are forced to work in textile factories, I cannot call that a'safe country'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u49	I totally agree with you. But I had another question. This is the last time, Mr. Chairman. There is therefore a lower level of principle. We've been looking for that for months, but he keeps jumping. The lower limit of principle appears to include the following. Even if there were a Swiss reception camp in Tunisia, entirely led by the European Union, UNHCR, Amnesty, GroenLinks, you name it, Jesse Klaver says: no, the Netherlands must block it, because I have no confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u50	You can focus on the reception location, but if we look more broadly, including the Refugee Convention, it's about the perspective that people should be able to have, also on their future. We do not see that building a perspective in these refugee camps is possible. Then it's about having a country where people can become part of that society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u51	At least we now have the text on which the discussion was about. That's already a win. Of course, we have all read that text very well. But it is such a well-balanced text that it must be both formal in the Treaties and material in accordance with the Treaties, and all kinds of improvements need to be made in practice, where it is still insufficient. What is wrong with this text in GroenLinks' vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u52	In the end, we have looked not only at the legal wording but also at the point where we do not want to send war refugees and political refugees out of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u53	"Don't want to send away," says Mr Klaver, but is it the intention to find opportunities for protection closer to home? Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance say that that actually goes too far? Does she think that people should always be able to travel to the Netherlands anywhere in the world, even if there is closer to home adequate protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u54	Of course you want to try to strengthen the shelter in the region. If people stay there, that's their choice. But when they migrate and come to the Netherlands... At least, they don't come to the Netherlands, because they don't even get there, but in Europe. If they come into Europe and Europe says "we'll send you back," then... We're looking not only at what's written legally, but also at what's done in practice. But now, when I see what the situation is, not based on my perception, but on reports from Amnesty International, for example, there is no country to which I would like to send refugees back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u55	Finally. But that is precisely what is said: insofar as it does not meet the standards, it must be improved. How can it be that GroenLinks, who we know as champion of maakbarheid, says precisely at this point that it is never going to work out with the shelter there anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u56	That might be a good misunderstanding: Champion Creativity. We don't believe in this ability to make things work. All right. It is stranded at the same point where it stranded March 15th. But I agree with colleagues' comments on the excellent leadership of this informant. We are facing a difficult phase; my party is well aware of that. How else to form a cabinet? We wish the informant all the wisdom in doing so. I would like to thank my colleagues from the VVD, the CDA and D66 for their cooperation recently. I thank the informant and his staff for their efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u57	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink, the informant, for his interim report and for his commitment in recent weeks. A clear coalition is still not obvious; even a four-party coalition seems increasingly difficult. It is not going to be easy and it is not going to be easier if the three parties who have to become the engine block of a new government, namely VVD, CDA and D66, are then held. For three months now it has been considered how a fourth party can join in helping these parties to reach a majority. Not an attractive role for the party in question, as GroenLinks has now noticed for the second time and as Mr Segers noticed when he was cross-examined. Yet the informant says that this is an interim report and that he still sees possibilities. I wonder which ones are and wait for that first. Maybe it's time to investigate variants without the VVD. I understand that, partly because of the election results, this is not obvious, especially since the CDA closed it. But look around you: how do the three parties feel about it at the moment? As far as we are concerned, it is important to have a cabinet that is really going to have a different policy than the neoliberal policy of the past decades. A policy characterised by more market, destruction of public services, more inequality and so on. It is clear that we do not want to go along with a policy that favours it. The parties have come no further than where the previous informant ended. The engine block succeeds in driving everyone off the table. Surely that's a strange strategy if you're looking for a majority coalition. As I have said, I am curious about the ideas of the informant for the next step in this formation, but if you cannot deliver after three months, perhaps it is time for another party to take the initiative. I'd like to hear what the informant thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u58	I always try to make a serious assessment of all of my colleagues' proposals. The variant that Mr Roemer puts forward every time he is very consistent in the latter at least includes the parties CDA, D66 and PvdA. As Mr Roemer has just noticed in the debate between Mr Asscher and myself, these three parties were able to continue with the text just as it was provided by the informant, but not GroenLinks at the moment. Where's the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u59	I am not going to go into the substance of the point where the negotiations with GroenLinks have collapsed. It has just become clear that there has been more talk than just the legal framework there. Moreover, this is a negotiation result based on what four parties have submitted, which we have not been there. It's in the trash now. If there is a moment at a later stage when we are at the negotiating table, we will start from the outset on any subject, including this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u60	Of course, Mr Roemer does not want to create an image of himself as one of the pilots on shore who know better each time during a debate like this. There was a press conference last night. A short attachment has been distributed, less than half an A4's. That was the legal, treaty-law framework through which further work could be carried out, of course, in a broader story. It's very clear. I ask the SP: can you live with that? Mr Roemer, you are asking Mr Buma to become Prime Minister of such a cabinet. You are asking Mr Asscher and me to participate in this. For the first step it is interesting to know where the SP is. Is there anything you can do with this text from the informant? It's taken us three months. Maybe you have a judgment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u61	I understand your second attempt, but you'll get the same answer. I am not going to go into a negotiation result that you put on the table with four parties and which is now in the trash. If you want to know what the SP thinks, read our election program, look at our site and look at our debates. I've invited you to negotiate every time, in a different formation proposal than yours. When we start negotiating, we are going to negotiate all the essential issues: finance, care, migration, all of them. I am not going to negotiate here on a point that you failed to achieve with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u62	Mr Roemer has always responded very quickly. He has now had hours to read a rule or fifteen. Mr Asscher is able to take a look at this and say: well, I do see opportunities in that to make further agreements with countries in North Africa. Of course you can emboss that with all kinds of conditions, but the question is whether the SP can say yes to the direction of thought that the informant has expressed. If you criticize others so much, but do not come to the table yourself, you should at least make a gesture by saying 'yes, I can talk with such a piece' or 'no, please don't ask me to think about it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u63	Now, Mr. Pechtold, don't get too excited. Don't want to come to the table? I've done nothing but try, among other things, to get parties at the table for a different variant than the one that was before. I've done everything I can. I've had individual conversations and conversations with superiors. It wasn't the SP who made a mess of it. We are the sixth party, Mr Pechtold. We lost a seat. Yesterday GroenLinks was blamed, today the sixth and seventh parties are apparently blamed. I should like to warn Mr Baudet; he will be blamed at the end of the journey. I don't think we should do it like this. And it seems extremely awkward to me to negotiate with you in this Chamber. Let's take our proposal seriously. Then perhaps we will soon be at the table, and we will undoubtedly be discussing this subject as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u64	When I hear this, I am extremely looking forward to the "presidency" of the cabinet in which Mr Roemer will also be present. There's got to be one thing I don't care about. Mr Roemer now has some sort of secret position. Or he really doesn't like that piece. If that's the case, I wonder what he's doing. Or he'll find something. If that is the case, we should not know what he thinks now, because it might be a negotiation effort. That's weird. So let me put the question differently. Does Mr Roemer share the view expressed here by Mr Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u65	I can't estimate that because I haven't been to the conversations. Mr Klaver's story is also at odds with the story I have heard here from the others who sat at that table. So I'm not going to go into this. I'm not gonna negotiate it either, and certainly not here in this room. If you want to negotiate together, Mr Buma, then you must respond to the proposal I made earlier. Then we'll sit down at the table together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u66	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u67	Yes, you can try again, Mr Buma, but I'm going to say the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u68	Mr Roemer says all the time that I must start to rule with him...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u69	No, you don't have to do anything. I just put something on the table. You don't bite or you don't bite. If you don't want it, don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u70	Mr. Roemer nearly exploded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u71	No, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u72	You would like to form a government with the CDA among others. It seems to me that migration will become a subject. It's not about negotiating, because you'll do it later. However, it starts with a very simple question, which I think I can rightly ask. Let me put that question differently, not on the basis of the document and not on the basis of what Mr Klaver has just said. Is it for Mr Roemer to cross a fundamental minimum threshold to allow the asylum procedure to take place partly in Europe in the context of European agreements, i.e. as far as the preliminary procedure is concerned, and for the rest under European standards in countries in Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u73	You can try it for a third, a fourth or a fifth time, but I will not go into this issue and the negotiations that have now failed with GroenLinks. It would also be extremely "not smart" to do so in this context. This also says something about the arrogance of three parties who are trying to get a fourth party to join, especially when they do not want to look at themselves. In my opinion, the parties in the'motor block on the right' should let go of each other and see if there are any other variants possible. Are there any new ideas that could lead us to a majority cabinet? For example, you have a role to play in these possibilities, Mr Buma. It is up to you whether you choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u74	We are having a debate here on a particular subject. I find it extremely surprising that the spokesperson of the SP cannot take a stand on this during that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u75	Mr Asscher has already answered the question that I am going to put to Mr Roemer. Mr Asscher also answered the question. There's a text, a final proposal from the informant. Three parties say yes to that and one party has said no to it. Let me ask you a simple question. What is the Socialist Party's reaction to that text?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u76	We have adopted that text for notification. We have not been to the meeting, nor have we been to the conversations. It took you three months, Mr Rutte. It took you three months to get here. You can keep trying and you can laugh at it, but we are not going to negotiate in the plenary. And certainly not with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u77	I'm sorry. We would like to change course on many important fronts. We want different policies than we have seen in the last 30 years. That is why we have made other proposals. I'd like to talk to the informant about that. I hope to get that chance again. After that, we can negotiate, including on this point. I'm not gonna be sealed up right now. I'm not gonna tell you if it's good or bad, because you're stuck with a statement like that. Then we hear: then you said this and then you said it. It would be extremely unwise to do so. I'm not playing that game with you, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u78	So Mr Roemer says: I am not responding to that text, because I do not know the context. The next time the Socialist Party comes up with an election programme, and the VVD is asked to respond to it, we must say to the VVD: we cannot respond to it, because we were not in the discussions and we do not know the context. There is a text, Mr Roemer. You're a politician...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u79	That is a very different situation, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u80	...and you need to find something of that. Does the SP say yes or no to that text? It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u81	You know very well that this is a very different story, Mr Rutte. You want to try to bring in the negotiation result that you have not been able to achieve with GroenLinks via the SP. We're not gonna do that. I'm so sorry. The SP is for a different policy for the coming years. And unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, the VVD is not among the executives of that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u82	Mr. Chairman. The question of how we deal with migration and the flow of refugees is an essential question for Dutch politics and for many more countries in Europe. It's important to start at the beginning. One of my annoyances is that I find that right-wing parties are often too easy to stay away from the root causes of people fleeing, that mass migration is taking place. It's like people making up bombs, like people getting into a boat like that for fun. This also means that I believe that much more needs to be done to remove these causes. Then you don't come by saying that it's not always a matter of more money, as the leader of the VVD just said. That is how I heard him about nursing home care until just before the elections, when it turned out to be different again. No, it's a matter of more money. If it's important to you, you have to want to do something about it. So you have to have the courage to invest in defence, because peace missions are needed. You need to invest in development cooperation, not cut back on your election program. But there is also an obligation for parties on the left side of the spectrum to continue looking for solutions, always in accordance with the principles. The principle that applies here is that you don't send people back into danger. That's what the Refugee Convention says. That is an essential principle. The Netherlands must never give up on this. You don't send people into danger. You do not tell me that the whole of Europe is always based on violating the Refugee Convention. On the contrary, we have an obligation, with all of us, left-wing and right-wing parties, progressive and conservative parties, to provide humanitarian ground for people to be safe, to remove the cause of migration and to continue to seek pragmatic solutions. The solution cannot be that we are not satisfied until everyone lives in the Netherlands. It just can't be. That is why I find it extremely regrettable that this attempt at formation has failed, no matter how difficult it had been. I think it is silly to just point to GroenLinks on this point. I know how hard it is with these guys, but I'm really sorry about this. I want to compliment the informant who made it clear what was on the table. Last time it was a satee and huge cozy, as if nothing had happened. Now we see what's going on. That is also necessary, because if we want to get on with the debate on migration, we will have to get on with it. The informant has informed us that this was an intermediate moment. Thank you for the transparency. He's still seeing possibilities. I'll wait for them in suspense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u83	Madam President. A little over two weeks ago, the informant started his reconnaissance. I would like to thank him for all the efforts he has made in those two weeks. In those two weeks, I talked to him, too. I have indicated, as before, that the Christian Union is always willing to talk in advance without conditions, provided that we are not undesirable and that we are needed for the majority. Because of the latter criterion, the option of VVD, CDA, D66, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion fell, as mentioned in the interim report of the informant. In the conversation with the informant the combination of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion was also discussed. I have said, as described in the report, that I do not think that any discussion on this issue makes any sense. But that deserves further supplement and I would like to give it to you. We have noted that this option lacked the political will at D66. There has been no change as far as I know. So that situation is quite clear. In this sense, we have never ruled out D66, as was claimed just from this chair. Can the informant confirm this reading of my conversation with him? I also ask the informant how he sees the process further. I understand he's about to consider further steps. What does he think is necessary now? And what steps is he going to take? We do so in a context in which the informer himself has outlined the major challenges of our time: climate, energy transition, social gaps and international cooperation. Against this background, we cannot wait endlessly for the formation of a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u84	Mr. Chairman. The formation with the CDA failed. The one with the VVD, D66 and GroenLinks as well, but it seemed refreshing to us to name another party in that game "who does not belong in this list?" than most newspapers have done. We see different developments in the world. Fresh across the street from old-fashioned ones. In the United States, the President has denounced the climate agreement, but individual states and cities show that this reflex to be against the environment is not only hopeless old-fashioned, but can also be very easily exchanged for new visions, new ways of thinking and new ways of looking, and thus come up with solutions that really secure the future, for future generations and also for people now. In the Netherlands we see that after 90 days it can be said in vain that solutions are still being sought that are a bit old-fashioned from traditional polder thinking, which may well be called desirable, but which no longer fit these times. It's not about refreshment. It's about refreshment. We're not here to make laundry commercials. The point is that climate change will be the major issue in the Netherlands for the coming years. It's about employment. It's about protecting our nature. It's about the future of our children. An all-encompassing subject, and therefore that must be the starting point of all conversations. Especially when you're worried about a humane way of dealing with refugees. That is why our group welcomes the fact that something interesting has been presented just a few steps away this afternoon, here in this city. In the municipality of The Hague, VVD, CDA have indeed, there it is possible to join forces with the Hague City Party and the Party for Animals to conclude a climate pact that makes the city "Parisproof." No sacred houses or sacred cows are spared. There is broad support not only for energy saving and the reduction of car traffic, but also for the drastic reversal of the social standard. Instead of meat.. hold on, people.... will become vegetarian from now on the standard offer. What a climate gain, and at zero cost! This is just as much a breakthrough as the political youth organisations reached the full extent of the climate agreement they discussed under the leadership of Jan Terlouw. While there are still no indicators at national level, youth organisations and large municipalities such as The Hague are taking the lead. When we look at the formation in this way, instead of old-fashioned.......................................................................................................................................................... The CDA has shown time and time again that it is unable to take the blinders of the megalomaniac agricultural policy. Therefore, we advise the informant to agree to try without the CDA. Based on the Pamphlet of an optimist by political group president Rutte of 2008, on the basis of the Terlouw agreement of the political youth organisations and on the basis of the climate pact of the municipality of The Hague, which received broad support. The Party for Animals is willing to take responsibility in such a coalition. The overriding importance of a sustainable future should also be able to transcend traditional left-right divisions. There's no time to lose. Let's make sure that before Princess Day there's a climate cabinet on Huis ten Bosch's burgundy. Only such a cabinet can provide fewer refugees, more jobs, a sustainable future for our children and a preventive approach that can save our country from major disasters below sea level. We keep our agenda clear for a clear and constructive discussion with the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u85	Mr. Chairman. In the previous debates, we had to appoint someone as a scout or informant, but fortunately that is not necessary now. Mr. Tjeenk Willink is not finished yet. He's moving on; he told me so himself. There is no need for a debate on that now. 50PLUS has every confidence in Mr Tjeenk Willink. We do not have to be difficult about that either. As far as we're concerned, we shouldn't have talked so much. I would have preferred Mr Tjeenk Willink to go straight ahead with his efforts. But while we're here, I do have a few questions. Was migration the only stumbling block? Or was there more? And what were GroenLinks' objections to Mr Tjeenk Willink's proposals? It's time for a piece of history. The first Den Uyl cabinet had no majority and yet it was almost four whole years. The Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet ruled with 77 members in the Chamber, of which thirteen were dissidents. That cabinet also served almost four years, mainly because the personal contacts were so good. I now hear Mr Tjeenk Willink expressing his preference for a minority cabinet. That is fine, but would he also like to think about what the benefits could be of something quite unique, but could be very well done, namely a cabinet consisting of the support of 75 seats? Then we do not immediately adopt every motion of censure and then we do not have to be afraid of a multitude of debates you are concerned about, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, but then we have to listen to the opposition. That seems to me to be the pinnacle of democracy. I would very much like to argue in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u86	Mr. Chairman. I thank the informant for his efforts and the interim report. During the time that this investigation was going on, I have done some turfing in previous publications by Mr Tjeenk Willink. At that time, I stumbled upon a beautiful collection of his farewells in 2012 as Vice President of the Council of State, entitled "Not the restriction, but the space." In an article on cabinet formations, Mr Tjeenk Willink quotes a fine quote from Minister of State Marga Klompé. She said: "The cabinet formation is a decisive moment in political life (...). The Parties shall reconsider their relations between themselves. Politics is experiencing a moment of feverish excitement and highly concentrated activity. All good, but also bad characteristics of humanity play a role in this. What makes politics so beautiful, but also so ugly, is known during the formation with ferocity." Well, that's very well put. It's a nice quote. I have to say that the good and bad qualities of humanity are not fully reflected in last night's interim report, but that is not so much intended for that purpose either. What comes out well in that sense is that a calm text always remains a weak broth of real reality and what is the big profit of the report is that we have in any case black and white why the spokesperson has gone wrong with GroenLinks. After the first attempt and the debate that we had on this in May, that actually remained a bit mist. In the same debate, several spokesmen, including Mr Rutte, indicated that they did not see a revival of this combination happen at all, because the differences are too great. I do not want to put the negotiator of the VVD here as a great visionary, but it was an accurate observation in any case. I therefore ask the following question, including the informant. If the differences of opinion were or are so great, what was his expectation when discussing these issues in the past period? What was that expectation based on? Why did energy stop again in this attempt? We now have an interim report from the informant but not yet a final report. The assignment hasn't worked out yet. At least three months after the elections, it has now been established that one variant of a majority cabinet is not going to fly. The time has been generously taken. The bad news is, time is ticking. The good news is that more variants are possible that add up to a majority. All parties should also take a critical look at their exclusions in advance. Not the large number of parties, as has been said in this Chamber, has made this formation difficult so far, but the large number of exclusions, particularly by larger parties. I therefore call for less restrictions and more room for the formation of a majority cabinet. If the informant sees opportunities to invite parties to the table, a blockage in advance should not prevent them from doing so, but then the substantive discussions should show what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u87	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the informant for the interim report and the report. I wish him every success and patience in the future, because there is a bit of delay. "Getrouzel" is the word by which DENK wants to describe the formation that has been going on for almost 90 days. First, VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks talk to each other for weeks, and they come to the conclusion that it does not succeed on the theme of migration. Then the Christian Union is expertly dumped by D66. Then a period is considered, there are conversations in a beach tent, and there are meetings in the informant's garden. In the end, VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks will return to the conversation, in order to arrive at exactly the same conclusion: it will not succeed on the theme of migration. It is similar to the definition of Einstein's folly: doing the same thing each time and expecting other results. I can't. People in the country have been waiting almost three months for solutions to their problems, but they see reports about the partner of the informant returning from the tennis club, about what Pechtold and Rutte have been drinking in Scheveningen and about the neighbor of the informant who heard the boys laughing in the informant's garden. Stand back. The only profit that's been made in those three months is that we've finally gotten some more information from the informant. Thanks to this information, we know that possible refugee deals between the EU and North African countries would be the lower level of principle so often mentioned by GroenLinks. Let me be clear about this as far as DENK is concerned: the hopelessness of the refugee drama and the fact that human traffickers are trying to get out of this, calls for solutions. The harsh, daily practice is that the Mediterranean has become a mass grave for people seeking refuge in a life-threatening boat trip to Europe. In order to take the wind out of the sails of those traffickers and to put an end to the death of people at sea, we must make international agreements on the restriction of the flow of refugees, provided that a number of agreements are met, provided that there is a stable state, provided that there is respect for international conventions and that there is no return of refugees to dangerous areas. If these conditions are met, we welcome the fact that these international agreements are being made. At the end of 2015 we called for agreements with Jordan similar to those with Turkey. At that time, that proposal was supported by the Christian Union, 50PLUS and the Party for Animals. We welcome the proposal, the text, of the informant. However, I would like to see the root causes in the last sentence described in more detail. But this final proposal can be put in the closet for the time being, because the informant needs to look for a workable majority coalition. In this context, there is really only one option. The SP doesn't want the engine block, D66 doesn't want the Christian Union, and for Wilders there's nothing more to do than keep tweeting on the sidelines until the end of the days. That is why there is only one possibility, as I said on day one: roll out the red carpet for Lodewijk Asscher and welcome him to the Catshuis to join the engine block as a fourth party. There's been too long delays. The Netherlands must be fairer and fairer. Work must be done to combat racism and discrimination. The Netherlands must be freed from its own risk and the social loan system. The Netherlands must get to work. This country deserves much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u88	Mr. Chairman. Eight hundred and ninety-nine days. Then it is November 30, 2019. Mark Rutte is counting down the days. 30 November 2019 is the day on which EU President Donald Tusk's second term expires. It is the day when Mark Rutte wants to succeed him and finally start harvesting for years with Juncker and Merkel, for the years of cutting off working Netherlands with crisis-blowing burdens and for the years of running and bouncing to make the EU bosses happy as much as possible. 30 November 2019. Mark Rutte has to bridge two and a half years before he can make his next career move. After the weeks of absurdistic theatre play with Jesse Klaver and GroenLinks, it now threatens to turn out on the ultimate cartel cabinet between the engine block and a decimated PvdA. Sincere compliments for Lodewijk Asscher by the way. He plays the hard-to-get game in this formation so far flawless, just as long as the bumping engine block begs for a cabinet with the PvdA. Of course, Jeroen Dijsselbloem can finish his job as president of the eurogroup. There are still many Dutch billions that have not been transferred to the EU. And, of course, the subsidy tap for the countries of the southern European euro area must remain open. We must also continue for a number of years to maintain the hopeless euro because of the artificial interest rate policy of the ECB. A cartel cabinet is the perfect solution for the personal careers and ambitions of Rutte and Dijsselbloem. This sad, transparent theatre can still be broken. The interests and also the votes cast by the Dutch people can still be served. First of all, this can be done by a knowledge cabinet, as the Forum for Democracy has now proposed several times. But if you really don't want to do that, stop excluding that childish PVV. The Netherlands wants mass migration to stop now. Even the GroenLinks voters wrote that today in the Volkskrant. If VVD and CDA really do not want to tackle this problem, the immigration problem, which is the biggest problem of our time and the biggest problem our children are being saddled with, then have the guts to write new elections so that the electorate can punish the broken election promises and deal with the party cartel. The Forum for Democracy therefore proposes the following. Option one. Form a knowledge cabinet with the best people in practice, with the Chamber setting out the broad lines along various majorities. If you do not want that, choose option two: a cabinet with the PVV and possibly with us, the FvD. If that is not the case, then be honest and write new elections so that the voter can re-apply his vote on the basis of the lessons learned. Of course, in the course of these elections, we must be very serious about counting the votes, as opposed to the unacceptable practices of 15 March, which are now emerging. Many thousands of voices have disappeared and perhaps this is just the tip of the iceberg. Since the Election Council is apparently unable to ensure the proper conduct of the elections, the Democracy Forum will therefore call on more than 10,000 members to attend the counting of votes throughout the country in these new elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u89	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I understand the informant wants answers right away. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u90	Madam President. It is a pleasure to be standing here, after it has necessarily been quiet on my part for the past one and a half weeks. Hence the interim report to you, Mr. Chairman. I have attached the annex, which I thought would be useful for the Chamber to take note of. I would like to begin by expressing my deep appreciation for the commitment of all those involved. I have to say that something has changed since Marga Klompé, for the better. There was a great openness towards me, for which I thank the interlocutors very much. There was a genuine attempt to get out, but also to find out exactly whether we spoke the same language. You cannot simply say "we are out, with this text we can live and that is it" if at the same time you still have the feeling of doubt. We have therefore come a long way with this method, but not far enough. Mr Van der Staaij asked what my expectation was based on when I started with this variant, which had already been investigated once. Well, I came to the conclusion that I had to come to the conclusion that it was the only variant of a majority cabinet that was considered meaningful and that did not have any prior conditions. In addition, in every new phase, an attempt must always be made to see whether positions are rigid. You understand I'm issuing a warning. The urgency is increasing, time is ticking and a majority cabinet is needed. But also views can change on the basis of a better understanding of the facts. That is why I felt it was necessary to deepen the chance of success completely. As has been said, everyone has worked constructively on this. We've been asked which variants the informant still sees. That is what Mr Roemer in particular is asking for. Mr Asscher awaits these variants with tension. Mr Segers asks: what is needed now? That is exactly the question I stand for myself. My starting point is this. The majority variant or majority variants are preferred by almost all group chairmen. I share that view when I see the major issues that are coming to us or have been waiting for an answer for some time: climate, social divides and Europe. Addressing these major issues requires a majority cabinet and then a broad support in the Chamber. I myself do not think it is acceptable to conclude that, after one majority variant, although twice, has been examined and the vast majority in the Chamber pleads for a majority cabinet, this one variant is not possible and that we are therefore moving to a minority cabinet. That is my answer to the questions that have been asked. Mr Segers reminds me of a sentence in the interim report to you, Mr President. That sentence reads: "The president of the CU Group did not consider participation in a combination of VVD-CDA-D66-CU to be appropriate." I have to say, he's right. This sentence, to put it in modern jargon, is too short a turn. That's my fault. At some point, when it is completed, a letter must be sent to the Chamber. The Chamber is right to welcome first information and not the press, but the press is also eager. But again, this is my responsibility and so is my fault. Mr Segers has indeed said to me and confirmed that for his part there are no blockades for a majority cabinet, as long as his party is required for that majority and not undesirable. I hope I'm helping this misunderstanding out. Mr Krol asked me if migration was the only stumbling block. Yes, that was the only stumbling block, because that was the turning point to see if you could start the substantive exploration. What was the intention? That was to start the substantive exploration with discussions about climate. But all four parties were convinced that you cannot do that with the thought in mind: perhaps there will be another bump in a moment, which we are wondering whether we should not have said that honestly to each other. That is why we have said that we must at least have a clear view of the solubility of the point that has led to the failure of the investigation by my predecessor, Mrs Schippers. We have indeed moved forward in this, but, as I said, not far enough. Madam President, may I conclude by making a few comments? I hope they're not out of order. I was raised as an official with the principle that, if the Chamber asks for something, it must be complied with if possible, even if that is not appropriate. That does not mean that you give your own opinion; quite the contrary. Those who have not followed me for decades over the past few years, but which sounds so old, know that I am concerned about the signs of crisis which are becoming increasingly apparent in the Dutch democratic rule of law. Those crises cannot be resolved with another state commission or a reorganisation of the government, although I would add that investment in the substantive expertise of the government is urgently needed. No, the crisis in the democratic rule of law is also linked to a crisis in politics, a policy that is failing its own function. Political companies have become mainly involved and therefore the focus of the discussions is often on the measures to be taken and the use of instruments. I am not saying 'not at all' but 'not at all'. This does not include topics that require structural changes in the existing way of thinking and doing things, including in the government itself. Climate and social divisions in Europe are among these themes. It should be avoided that the usual discussion of the instruments conceals the question of whether the structural problems are weighted by each one. Too soon we must avoid ignoring the facts that mark the common problem, the common objective to be achieved, the identification of different ideas to resolve the common problem in good time and a vision of society on which these ideas are based. Here in particular there are opportunities for a new open political debate. If you look closely, you will see that discussions on measures and instruments to be taken often focus on their supposed effectiveness and affordability rather than on the principles to be observed in the use of instruments and also on the monitoring of their impact on implementation. The latter is necessary because in advance it is not possible to provide and regulate everything in detail. Policy takes shape in implementation. Political discussions on measures and instruments are often almost unnoticed by top-down policies, rather than encouraging initiatives from the bottom-up, involving citizens and civil society organisations. However, the substantive public debate on structural change is crucial for the necessary support. An open and substantive political debate stimulates the public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u91	Maybe a point of order. I really wonder what I'm listening to. We invited the informant to a debate on how things have been over the past few weeks, but it seems like I'm getting a lecture. That's not exactly what I'm waiting for. We need an informant to carry out the Chamber's assignment. I hear the informant say what the major challenges of today are, talking about social divisions and climate policy. That's incredibly subjective. In any case, you do not speak for a large part of the Chamber and therefore not for many people in the Netherlands. How about Islamization and Islamic terror? The informant is our guest and then you should be polite, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u92	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u93	But I'd say a little less is okay. Not everyone agrees with you and we certainly do not need a lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u94	No, I get it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u95	It is not the intention to debate with the informant, but to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u96	Madam Speaker, I get it. It is also, in a sense, a risky move, but what I wanted to go to is that in the cabinet formations I think we should consider how we are discussing these matters. I just mentioned the three things that have always been in the formation and do not fantasize about it. For that I needed this run-up, namely to ask the question: how do you work in and out of an existing system at the same time? Would it be possible to at least consider whether we could first clarify, including in the cabinet formation, the context in which the discussion should be conducted and the facts that determine this context? Would it then be possible to show the willingness to focus the discussion on the common objective to be achieved and on the short and long-term trajectory that could lead to this? Can there then be an overview of the different ideas for the timely solution of the common problem? Finally, can it be clearly stated which instruments may be used, with the criteria used in the use of these instruments? The necessary change in thinking and doing that I outline is difficult to do in a system that with an expensive word has received some features of a "self-referenced" system, but it is not impossible. The change is necessary because otherwise, precisely in these major issues, politics will lose credibility. That also motivates me, although my contribution to this change and thinking about it in this temporary role of informant can only be extremely modest. But I never want to be blamed, nor that I can make myself: you stood there, you looked at it but you did nothing; had said it. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u97	Thank you. I would like to ask whether there is a need for a second term on the part of Members of Parliament. No? Then I want the informant... Oh, Mr Baudet! I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u98	Mr. Chairman. First of all: I am impressed by the words of Herman Tjeenk Willink from just now. I hear a call for a change in the system. The Democracy Forum has made some constructive proposals to break the system open. The self-reference system, as he calls it, we call it the party cartel. So I think we're all on the same page there. I'd like to file three motions. I understand that the President would like it in writing. So I typed them out. The motions are conditional. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the formation has reached an impasse;]] [[chooses to form a knowledge cabinet with experts from practice while setting out the broad lines along varying majorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u99	If this motion were to die unexpectedly, I would have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the formation has reached an impasse;]] [[calls on the so-called "motor block" to stop the childish exclusion of the PVV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u100	If this motion cannot count on a majority, my third motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an impasse has been reached in the formation;]] [[noting that serious errors were noted in the voting count of the previous elections;]] [[calls on the government to issue new Parliamentary Elections and to allow them to take place in September 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u101	Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the informant for answering the questions put to him. I wish him every success and wisdom in continuing his work as an informant. We are waiting with interest for what is to come. We are about to vote on the motions that have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting until 5:45 p.m. Mr. Klaver, you have an order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u102	I do not think there is any need for a new informant to be appointed and is not in very much a hurry, so that we could perhaps add the motions to the voting list for Tuesday, if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u103	I would like to see if there is a majority in favour of voting on the motions next Tuesday. By the way, there will probably be a vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u104	I asked for a roll-call vote. Everyone gets mad, because it takes so much time. Seven minutes per roll-call vote; we have recorded that. This has been slowing down the government for months because they are playing all kinds of cartel games. It is now proposed to lift the vote over the weekend. No, we are now making concrete proposals in connection with this debate and we are very keen to vote on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u105	I would suggest that we simply vote now, as is customary, although I understand the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u106	If there is a need, we are also prepared to vote by roll call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-23.u107	I don't think anyone's gonna mind voting in a few minutes. So you're right.
