ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	We now turn to Mr Grashoff's questions on behalf of GroenLinks to the Minister of Health, Wellness and Sport about the report that the NVWA, the Dutch Food and War Authority, did not act against poisonous berries. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Food watchdog foodwatch requested data from the Dutch Food and War Authority after research into gojiberries. Gojiberries lie on the shelf as being extremely healthy. The study would show that they are less healthy, because seven out of ten samples exceeded legal standards on toxins, not just a little bit but up to 55 times the permitted amount. There were many different poisons, even poisons that are banned in the European Union because of the health risks. The NVWA then failed to inform consumers, failed to give clear instructions to suppliers and customers to remove the products from the market and also failed to notify the European warning system. In the meantime, the NVWA has also recognised the latter. Mr. Chairman. It seems that we have here again an example of a situation in which the NVWA does not act adequately and firmly, decisively in terms of our food safety. I am very concerned about that. Hence the following questions. How is it that the NVWA has not acted in this case: has not issued a public warning and has not ordered the withdrawal of the products from the market? So why haven't consumers been informed? In the end, this happened with, for example, the fipronil eggs. And that while experts indicate that there was indeed an acute danger, for example for children. Mr. Chairman. One reason the NVWA argues why it would not have acted is the fact that the consumption pattern was difficult to determine. I find that very strange, because that would almost lead to the conclusion: if the consumption pattern is not well established, there is apparently no danger. I would say that the precautionary principle would be the opposite. Will the Minister answer that? In this case, a very safe assumption of the consumption pattern would be made and action would be taken on this basis. Can the Minister answer that? RIVM has also been asked for advice. That's what I'm talking about. In the end, that advice was not followed by the NVWA, because she thought that this would overestimate the consumption pattern. That is a strange matter when you realize that it would eventually be a handful of currants or gojiberries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was part of a wide project aimed at superfoods that the NVWA had started. One of the groups in that wide project was about goji berries. We have looked at microbiological parameters, different infections and residues. In that whole group of products, the level of residues in gojiberries was found to be too high. The NVWA therefore found that there was an excess of the legal maximum level, the MRL. She has given the companies a written warning. That's not crazy in itself, because the NVWA does that more often. When you first exceed the MRL, you will receive a written warning as a company. The second time you get an administrative fine in addition to that written warning. What does such a written warning mean? This means that companies must take measures to remedy the infringement. That's in good Dutch: a recall. And that is in good Dutch that the producer or the person who sells it takes the goji berries out of the shelves. That's called a silent recall, because no public warning has been issued. Silent calls are common. I have to tell you, they're quite common. In general, people don't know anything about it, but then products are retrieved. I was asked why no public warning was given. In general, it is not given in the case of an MRL overrun. Then you're dealing with a silent recall. What's with the value? There were two samples that exceeded the Acute Reference Dose. So there was something really serious going on. How is that Acute Reference Dose determined? This is determined by the question of how many people are getting in. That is indeed unknown with regard to those gojiberries. That's why it's related to dried grapes. There is no doubt that consumption is well known. We periodically carry out a food consumption survey. It takes people two days to get what they're eating. They're gonna have to point that out. It looks at how many people actually eat. They have said: you could compare it with that, but one will eat more of these dried grapes than of gojiberries. So they really took a worst case scenario. Why do they do that? Those toxicological limits depend on the dose, because the dose makes the poison. If you get little from something, it can be completely healthy. If you get too much of something, even though the product is healthy in the base, it eventually becomes toxic. What's the matter with the goji berries? That's not in itself a food we've known for a long time. Each country has therefore set its own reference value for this purpose. It is therefore not the same in the Netherlands as in other countries. Finally, two samples could give rise to exposure above that Acute Reference Dose. That's clear. Should the NVWA have published that? They didn't. This does not happen automatically in the case of fruit and vegetables, as that is generally eaten. We're talking about dried fruit here. Would it have been appropriate to publish it? I asked the NVWA. They said: yes, it was just above those reference values, which were actually set a little high. We have decided not to publish it. That's a trade-off. You can argue about that, but that's still a legitimate consideration. What really did not go well is that the two samples above the acute reference values were not reported via RASFF. The NVWA concludes that she should have done so back then. The case is last year's. We could say that the NVWA had quite a wake-up call this year with the fipronil affair. I see some self-reflection in the fact that they think they should have done this. But in order to ensure this better, I would like to say to the Chamber that at least there is explicit attention to it in the framework letter in which annual agreements are made with the NVWA. It can't be that these kinds of things aren't reported through the RASFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	A long, complicated and, as far as I am concerned, not very transparent reply from the Minister shows that an attempt has indeed been made to establish the Acute Reference Dose. It has been exceeded by the assumption that has been made. The public was then not informed. I can only draw that conclusion from the Minister's reply and previous replies from NVWA. So it seems that it was the NVWA's own decision to lower the risk. I think that is actually irresponsible. I would like to ask the Minister: how can it be that in doubt about food safety the classic proverb 'no crossing in doubt' is not respected? There should have been some kind of intervention. I suppose the interest of the public outweighs the interest of producers and suppliers. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: what is the actual situation at the moment? There are samples that haven't been analyzed yet. Is there still an acute risk? Can the Minister guarantee that what is now on the shelves is absolutely safe? If not, what is the Minister doing now to ensure that this potential danger to food safety is eliminated immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	It is also a nuanced argument, because it depends on how much you eat with toxicity. In the end, everything is poisonous, as long as you eat enough of it. With eggs we know very well how many people eat of them. That's why eggs are much brighter than gojiberries. In addition, we do not know that and so assumptions are made. In doing so, the NVWA itself made a trade-off. You can argue about that; I have already said that. But the NVWA itself made that assessment. The NVWA said: it's so round about that Acute Reference Dose and it's already so high in our eyes because people generally eat less of it that we thought we shouldn't. There are indeed samples to be assessed by the NVWA. Since August, they have been before us for evaluation. These assessments have been delayed because all the assessments in the fipronil affair have been pushed back and priority has been given to the eggs. Those samples will be evaluated in the near future. This will have to show what the current state of affairs is. Can I guarantee that whatever is on the shelves is completely safe? I don't think the Minister can guarantee that at anything. You can't do that with goji berries, but you can't do that with eggs, meat or vegetables. In the end, it's the chain that's responsible. The producer is responsible for ensuring that food meets the standards. The supervisor supervises that. If something isn't right, the supervisor has to take action. In this case, there has been a silent recall. I imagine there will be another recall if it is not good now, but there will also be fines. But that depends on the results of the samples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	My group has two further questions, Mr President. My first question concerns the Minister's rather comprehensive answer to the question of when the taking of gojiberries could be harmful. I have a specific question about this. They are not only in all reform shops, but also in the reforms of all supermarkets. If someone went to work this morning and bought one of those bags and ate it in the hours after, is that a dangerous quantity or not? I would also like to ask my second question right away. I find it quite amazing that the Dutch Food and War Authority is concerned about whether the Vegetarian Butcher may call his specks "specks," but does not place priority on these kinds of subjects. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	The NVWA believes that the berries that are in the shop can be eaten safely with a normal consumption pattern. In the end, the samples will show to what extent producers have actually taken their measures. The NVWA ruled that the names should be changed, following a complaint to NVWA. I've already said about the complaint that I think there are more important things. But, yes, a complaint requires a ruling and that ruling was made by the NVWA. It must therefore be followed up by measures. It is not for me to take action on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Building on that, I would like to look at it a little more broadly. We now have a case of berries, which are rightly concerned and on which only a written indication has been followed. We have seen that in November two different reports on fipronil were received by NVWA, which was ultimately not acted upon. At the same time we see that on the basis of one complaint about the Vegetarian Butcher, where someone is apparently afraid that the Vegetarian Butcher would sell meat, there will be a ruling immediately. That really raises the question of whether the NVWA, our food watchdog, has its priorities in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	The NVWA has ruled on a complaint that has been lodged. I'm sure there'll be deadlines for that. Look, food safety is above all else, as far as I'm concerned. The gojiberries are also from 2016, so from before the fipronil affair. We can still speak of a wake-up call. As a result of the fipronil affair, I asked Mrs Sorgdrager to dig out this case very well and to deepen it, so that there was a final improvement. Here too, mistakes have been made. The NVWA should clearly have put this on RASFF and it simply did not. It is therefore up to us to ensure that these considerations are made better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Minister says what we were allowed to hear from her earlier in the fipronil affair; that food safety is paramount as far as she is concerned. But we also read in this case that EFSA reports have not been taken into account and that the NVWA now says that it might have been better if... That led my group to ask whether the NVWA is sufficiently organized to ensure our food safety, or whether, in view of that statement, the vegetarian butcher's vegetarian chicken stucks should no longer be called vegetarian chicken stucks. It would be nice for the Minister to give a clear answer. Is it one or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	Food safety is an absolute priority for me, so in the framework letters on where the money goes for NVWA, food safety is number one. I have taken the opportunity to pay a little more attention to labelling; what exactly is in a product? We didn't do that at all. I think it's important that if you have allergens or don't want to eat horse meat, you can see what's in them on the labels. That may not be a food safety issue, but it is good to inform consumers, so I added that as a second. But the framework letters are really very clear; you can check that yourself. Food safety is absolutely a priority and where there were possible cuts in the role, I have reversed it for food safety. Does that mean nothing ever goes wrong? No, it doesn't mean that, that's obvious. That did not go quite well with fipronil and mistakes will still be made in the future, I fear, but we must learn from our mistakes. It can't be that we keep saying, "Something's going wrong." I just want us to make sure that every time something goes wrong, we're gonna make it better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	The minister says there's been a silent recall by the company. Has the NVWA taken care of this or has it relied on the company's own notification? And where did those products go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	In a recall, those products are withdrawn from the market, so you cannot re-market them elsewhere. In a recall, the company is commissioned, which will simply have to do a recall. I really should check with the NVWA if the products will be destroyed, because I do not really know what happens to those products. It is not the case that they are traded on the Dutch market. Maybe they're being marketed quietly in China, I don't know, but it doesn't seem to me. It is also shaken to say that they will not be able to trade in China, but I would like to check that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	Perhaps written information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	Then I believe the Minister, but I am concerned about whether the NVWA has checked whether that recall took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	The NVWA gives orders to recall, but it doesn't do a test for all companies that do daily calls by default. I don't know if she's gonna take a sample from time to time. I really should check whether she does this on a random basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	And then inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, like where those products are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. I find the Minister's response to a number of issues very unclear. It seems to me that this is the first time that this has been observed in those goji berries, but in 2014 there was also an investigation by the NVWA as a result of stomach and intestinal problems. A warned man counts for two, doesn't he? Then why did the NVWA act in this way, when in the past there were problems with these berries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	We often have something that happened to meat years ago and not in the years after and that suddenly something comes up in a sample, which you say: hey, it's not okay. There has been a repeated check, with a silent recall. Then you do a follow-up sample that is now for evaluation. If it is still not good, then penalties will actually be imposed on these companies. But yes, we are constantly dealing with all kinds of food. Sometimes eggs are good, but sometimes there is something wrong with them. If you've had such an affair, it doesn't mean they're good for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
