ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the budget debate on Home Affairs and Kingdom relations. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Today we are discussing the first term of office of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Democracy is dear to us. We want to protect her, we want to strengthen her. This requires a resilient and resilient public administration. This cabinet has said: we want to make a strong country even better for everyone, including those people who now feel that the government is not there for them, people who do not feel seen or heard. That is what I want to do; that is what the cabinet wants to do. And that is why, perhaps, I may finish that sentence. It is a great pleasure for me to be here as Minister with Secretary of State Knops and to discuss the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations with your Chamber, to answer questions and to debate them. I would very much like to thank all Members for their contributions yesterday and, of course, in particular, congratulate Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Van der Graaf on their maiden speech, which I found very beautiful. My wallet's bigger than Homeland, which we're talking about today. If you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to name the priorities of my portfolio, after which I will continue to focus exclusively on the issue of Home Affairs. So promoting that resilient and resilient democracy is an important theme today, working together on that public administration, including a high-quality government service. The other themes are in the area of spatial planning and housing. It is about improving the policy, which must be workable and integral to the physical environment, of course raising the housing stock and making our built environment more sustainable. These issues will be discussed in a separate legislative consultation. That's what your room asked for. You may have seen that in the written answer some of Mr Bishop's questions have been answered because he has informed me that he cannot be present at that legislative consultation. The rest is also a lot of work, as we heard yesterday. The Secretary of State and I realize that our portfolios are touching each other in a number of areas and may even overlap. We will always find that connection where it concerns the digital government, for which Secretary of State Knops is responsible, and the proper functioning of public administration and, of course, the provision of services to citizens. One can't do without the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	No, I just sent Mr Van Raak away, so I'd like to suggest that the Minister finishes her introductory story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr President, I'd love to. That's not for long. I will explain exactly how I wanted to deal with the issues later on. I have a few preliminary remarks to make, so if you will allow me, I would very much like to do so. I would also like to say that this cabinet, including in the debate on the declaration of government, has shown that we are politically in favour of an outstretched hand. I was also pleased to see that the opposition handled that debate very well. I would also like to call it a policy with an open hand, a policy of working together, involving citizens more in local public administration, working together with local public administration to restore confidence in politics, acting together with local partners against, for example, undermining. I'm sure we should do it together. That is also stated in the coalition agreement. When it comes down to it, we solve it together in the Netherlands. Perhaps I know that Mr Bosma is already at the interrupting microphone, and may I come back to his speech yesterday. Because I noticed that Mr Bosma's input focused on my person and not on my portfolio. He drew on a speech I made in Amsterdam in January of this year. That fact is also the only of his whole argument that the fact check could pass. His fantasy went down with him. I regret that he prefers a personal attack rather than a substantive debate on and on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which all the other spokesmen would like and I would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	So much for your introductory story?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	So much for my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	I appreciate the Minister's immediate response to my contribution yesterday. Often things are put away under the heading "varia." But I appreciate the Minister's immediate commitment to my contribution, and I love that. Yes, the Minister blames me for fantasy, but in addition to fantasy, there are also just television recordings. The Minister has just said that democracy is dear to us. But this minister is just like an anti-democratic campaigner, someone who is making a frontal attack on our democracy by saying: if the Party for Freedom comes to power, then we are separating ourselves and we are no longer participating. That was in a New Year's speech, an important speech. She spoke as mayor of our capital. Yesterday afternoon, however, the Minister said that it was very remarkable that the text was actually repeated, or not 'actually', but she simply repeated it. She has literally said, for a microphone of PowNed: if the PVV would carry out certain things, then we have to declare Amsterdam a republic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Well, the question is... That is a violation of the Constitution. It's an attack on a constitution, it's the attack on democracy. That's not fantasy, it's just the television images that are visible everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	And you want a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yeah, good sidekick!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think Mr Bosma knows very well what I mean. I meant that in January and I mean it now. I do not distance myself from the Netherlands, I distance myself from the ideas of the PVV in so far as they exclude certain sections of the population in the Netherlands. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I did that in January, and I do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Well, no. In that speech, Mrs Ollongren has just carried out a frontal attack on a population group, namely the 1.5 million voters at the PVV, who have "a lack of humanity and civilisation" and so on. But that's not my point. From statements from the past, new rulers often say: yes, that was before; and now a coalition agreement. That's what Mr. Grapperhaus does, for example. He's absolutely right about that under state law. This minister chooses a completely different path. She continues to press in an independent Amsterdam. She also speaks in the "we" form, "us." Then "us" apparently remains here today, on behalf of the canal belt, to declare Amsterdam a republic. Mrs Ollongren, that is a brutal attack on democracy. That's a hell of a attack on a constitution. That is forgivable for everyone, but not for one person, namely the minister who deals with democracy and the minister who deals with the Constitution. The government of Catalonia is behind bars because of the same desire.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	I think Mr Bosma is Amsterdammer, and I think there is no Amsterdammer who does not know what the winged term 'the Republic of Amsterdam' means. It stands for stubbornness, it stands for rebellion, it stands for something special in our capital. If Mr Bosma argues, as he did yesterday, that a ruling on this matter would be worth a prison sentence, I ask Mr Bosma what stands for exactly the same fact that I believe the PVV supports, namely the splitting off of the Antilles of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Well, the minister is new to this house. We're asking the questions here, and you-boxes aren't the best answer. About the Antilles I have all the answers, and I brought all the motions. So I'll figure it out. The Minister is now trying to pretend that it is some sort of figure or speech, so of "the Republic of Amsterdam" stands for something. No, she literally said it yesterday: then we have nothing else to do but to make Amsterdam a republic. That is the separation of the municipality of Amsterdam from the Kingdom of the Netherlands. That is a frontal attack on democracy, a frontal attack on the Constitution. Don't beat around the bush. I congratulate the Minister on being consistent. I think that's great. But this is just an attack on the Constitution, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	In addition to this personal attack on me, Mr Bosma has asked a number of questions. One was about the Constitution. Of course, I will answer it neatly later, so I will come back to that in a moment. For the rest, I would like to repeat what I have just said: I do not distance myself from the Netherlands, I distance myself from certain ideas of the PVV, in so far as they are about exclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	One final comment on this point. It's the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	I get it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	The questions will be repeated, but the answers will also be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. It's not a personal attack. It is simply the critical question: is this person the best person to be Minister of Democracy and Minister of Constitutional Affairs? Don't make it bigger than it is. It's not a personal attack, because it's the first time I've met the minister. Yesterday she literally repeated: making Amsterdam a republic. That is an attack on the Constitution. It is very serious for the Minister of Constitutional Affairs to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	I'm not making anything bigger than it is. I am glad Mr Bosma says that. I suppose I'll have to take his 30 years in prison with a grain of salt. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr Verhoeven, I actually want the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	A point of order, but briefly, because I would like to make it clear now. Mr Bosma made a number of this yesterday. That's when we responded. Then there was another chairman. He's allowed all this to happen for far too long and not properly controlled. That was really annoying. Mr Bosma is now bringing it up again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	Well, it's getting off to a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'll do that. The Minister has just given a clear answer. Mr Bosma himself indicated that the 30-year prison sentence could also be 25 years. So it was all for the stage and nonsense. The Minister has just explained how that remark should be made. I think it's out of the world now and we should just stop talking about it. Otherwise, Mr Bosma will continue to make the same point that has been made a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you very much for your support, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr President, this is apparently an order debate. Do you mind if I respond to it for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	It is not up to Mr Verhoeven to decide what people are talking about. This is the budgetary procedure. We can talk about everything related to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yeah, I'm sorry. I'll give the Minister the floor. Then she can continue her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	Sure. Speaking of our Constitution, democracy as a public administration, that was a question from Mr Bosma. Short but powerful, I stand for a robust public administration. I stand by the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is also responsible as guardian of the Constitution and our democracy. I'm incredibly motivated to do that. I am also motivated to renew our democracy where it is possible and where it is necessary and to protect it where it is necessary. Maybe I should also point out that, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am also responsible for our AIVD, the General Intelligence and Security Service, which is an integral part of our democratic system. Mr. Chairman. I proposed that the answer be divided into a number of themes. The first is, as far as I am concerned, resilient democracy. The second theme, resilient democracy, is about undermining. The third issue is security, where we can talk about the Wiv and foreign interference. The fourth theme is public administration. A number of points were asked: regional bottlenecks and WGR. The fifth theme is all that has to do with the Law norming top incomes. The sixth theme is discrimination, or rather anti-discrimination. Finally, especially for Mr Bosma, there is also the cup of varia, but that is not very long, I can add. The resilient democracy. By way of introduction, I also wanted to refer to the report Citizen's Perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of 2017. On the one hand, it states that there is optimism in society about economic development, for example, and on the other hand that there are concerns. These great concerns are often about hardening and intolerance in our society. The issue of immigration is also high on that list. I think we should conclude from this that in parts of our society there is unease about the state of the country. That displeasure has countless unwanted effects. It could affect the authority of the government. It can lead to sharper social divisions. It can even lead to cross-standard behaviour, according to the SCP investigation. I think it is very important how we all, as politicians and governments, deal with this unease, because of course there are several reasons for this. This can have socio-economic causes, for example the fact that we are from the economic crisis, but that people do not always notice that. But it also partly stems from the fact that people do not feel represented, that they do not feel heard and seen. It is necessary that people know that the government is there for them, acts if they need it, listens to them and there is to solve their problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	The Minister says a few nice things. She wants to involve citizens more in the administration. She wants to do something about the displeasure. She wants the voice of citizens to be heard. I made her an offer in the first term and gave the Minister something to say, namely that she can always delete one proposal from the coalition agreement because it is not feasible. That is, of course, the referendum. This is the way to involve citizens in the administration, the way for citizens to express their displeasure and correct us. At the moment when politics does things that are very far removed from people who do not want people, they have the opportunity to correct us, the politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	I heard Mr Van Raak correctly yesterday. I wasn't fully aware of the unwritten rule he quoted. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will come back later to discuss the referendum in detail. Mr Van Raak's question is the same as he asked yesterday. So I'm sure I'm going to answer that, but if he's okay with it, I just wanted to finish my reasoning on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	Is that all right, Mr Van Raak? You look so worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	Let's see how we're gonna do that. The minister says she's up to all kinds of things. It wants to save democracy, give citizens a say, but at the same time there are a number of things in the coalition agreement that do exactly the opposite. I'd be happy to wait. I always like to do that. But can the Minister at least take it on board that, should it ever come to a law to repeal the consultative referendum, that repeal law will also be referendable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	I also noted that question yesterday and I am going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. So I said that people do not feel sufficiently heard and represented. Mr Van Raak spoke about saving democracy. I think that goes a little far, because I think that the foundations of our representative democracy are very solid. But we must also realise that times change and that digitisation, social media, the growing importance of Europe and, of course, the decentralisation, the transfer of wealthy tasks to municipalities, all have an impact on democracy and the way democracy is organised. That is why this democracy also benefits from innovation. A number of questions were asked about this yesterday. For example, Mr Bishop asked how I could ensure that citizens' confidence in the political system continues and how they can feel more involved in the decision-making process. That is exactly what I see, that people want it very much and that we need to find ways to involve them more in democratic processes. That's not really new. It's something that's constantly evolving. Of course, many have been working and working on this for a long time. The VNG is an important partner in this. Many municipalities also experiment with it. I will come to a number of examples later. I imagine that on the basis of many conversations and many ideas that exist in society, next year I will come with a letter to the Chamber. I thought I'd do that in the summer of 2018. This can be seen as the action plan that was requested. The timing isn't entirely coincidental. I thought it would be a good idea to do that after the municipal elections. In this way I can also better match local ambitions and with the wishes of new councils and new lectures. This is particularly, I think, in the direction of Mrs Van der Graaf, an answer to her question whether I would like to do so in the short term: relatively short term, after the municipal elections, but for next summer. Part of this plan should then be the elaboration of what is contained in the government agreement on initiatives such as right to challenge, giving citizens the right to start alternatives to social services themselves. Many Members referred to this yesterday. Not only Mrs Den Boer and Van der Graaf, but also Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Özütok asked for this. There's already experiments going on. Some of them were mentioned yesterday. Utrecht is working on it. They call this the People's Offer. In a certain district you can take over tasks from the municipality, for example start a sports association or take over something yourself. That's what they do in Breda. Greening, exploiting set-aside land is already possible in Breda. So I think that the role of governments, and often that of local authorities, is to create that space. So not to say "that can't be, that's our job," but to say to citizens: what a good idea; how can we help to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	It is good to hear that the Minister wants to work on Right to Challenge, just to put it in English. Residents who take initiatives for collective provision in their community should be facilitated. You give a number of very good examples, but there are also plenty of examples in this country that do not thrive because they run into laws and regulations, are not sufficiently supported by local government or are opposed by all kinds of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	My question is: would you not like to give this a more solid form? Would you like to investigate how there can be a fixed structure in which citizens can say: this is our initiative and we want support and facilitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mrs Özütok, I forgot to mention it, so just to be safe: interruptions should be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	I'll hold you to that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	That is, of course, a very good point. There are good examples where it succeeds, but there are no doubt just as many examples where it fails. That is, of course, frustrating for citizens. The question is, how can we do this? I very much believe that this requires local tailor-made work. I think there's more we can do than we might think with each other. I'd like to consult with congregations. What's happening? Which model works well? And where are the barriers? I could do that not only with municipalities, but also with provinces and water boards. I would therefore ask you not to ask me to opt for legislation at this stage. I do not want to rule it out at all, because the discussions might show that this is a good way forward, but I would also like to keep the room to see if it could be done without legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	If I hear it correctly, you would like to investigate the possibilities of giving this a more solid form. I think it would benefit citizens if something were to come from frameworks. I'd like to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mrs Özütok calls it an investigation. I call it an inventory, which is mainly based on discussions with municipalities and any other authorities and on good examples. We need to look at where the barriers are, so that we can then determine what is the best way to move forward. This could be a general framework or legislation, as was suggested yesterday. But we can also simply agree that we are going to give this type of initiative as much space as possible. I'm not ready to conclude what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you very much for your reply. In addition, I would like to ask a very short question. Are you prepared to include the issue of citizen amendments in your inventory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Yeah, I'd be happy to. But I think that is already an example of this. If the relevant city council wants that and is a majority for that, then there is already a lot of room to do so. But I would like to say to Mrs Den Boer that I will take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	It's good to hear the Minister wants to work on this. She refers very much to the practice and to the fact that she wants to talk. It is not the first time that the Home Office has taken this issue seriously. I would very much like to ask the Minister to comment on the following. It's not just that the government has to make something possible. The point is that there is a right among residents, the right to challenge, which they can use. That really goes a little further than collecting good examples, because I think we already have packages of them. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	That is a very justified addition. Of course, we need to involve the citizens' initiatives that are there and that could still come. The strength of citizens' initiatives is that they are often very local. I already gave the example of Breda. That's just about a basketball club, but there are many more of those kinds of examples. I will see how I can involve the people who want to take citizens' initiatives in the investigation. Every resident in the Netherlands is in principle free to do so. But I very much agree with Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	To add, I know a lot of local proposals. I was lucky to be involved through the local government. I have these proposals on my retina. I am particularly concerned that I know what the minister's role is. She's not a local director, she's a minister. You are on the side of the citizen who wants to do something; that is the democratic renewal. However, I would like to call on you to look at this effect, especially from your own point of view as a state government, at how you can lay down rights with people who can claim something from that government. After all, it is often the governments that do not want to cooperate. Does the Minister intend to work with that CDA expectation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	If the CDA expects us to do this together, the answer is yes. I am well aware that it is about the citizens' initiatives. I also realise that the obstacles that exist are often at local level. But, of course, we also need to look at what is or is not present at the rich level and what is or is not possible to strengthen this instrument. Again, it is in the coalition agreement and I think it is a very good initiative. I know it as well as you do from practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	Questions have been asked, including by Mr Van der Molen, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf, about how we could better equip council members, including in the smaller municipalities. I think that is a very real point. But that is not new either, nor is it true that nothing has happened so far. I know that the VNG has already done a lot about it. There are professional associations that focus on, say, a professionalisation battle to provide council members with the tools or support they need. So it's not something we have to start from scratch. I think there are a few things that we really need to respond to. I recently received a letter from the Association of Municipalities on the remuneration of council members. This too has been mentioned before, also in a number of reports I have been involved in one of those reports myself in a previous life................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The question is whether the work is not as heavy in these small municipalities and whether it is not too low. I would like to say, in response to that letter, that I would like to enter into that conversation. Finally, under this heading perhaps something...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'll finish my sentence. I would just like to mention that next Friday there will be a so-called day of local democracy organised by the VNG and professional associations. A website is being launched there, delocaldemocracy.nl. That's where a lot of people come, hundreds, almost a thousand people. That is good and inspiring, and that gives me confidence that this vitalisation of local democracy, in the run-up to the next municipal elections, lives extraordinaryly with everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	I am pleased to hear that the Minister wants to enter into the discussion and see if the council members of the small municipalities can get a little more salary in order to do their job better. We have transferred a lot of tasks to the small municipalities and the work has become more. My question is when we can expect concrete proposals for this. I'm working on a motion, and I've seen some support for that in the Chamber. Could you be more specific? The expectations from the small municipalities are quite large.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	The Association of Municipalities has called for attention to be given to this theme. I told you, I'm paying attention to that, too. Nor do I find it unrealistic to ask to look at that difference. By the way, it's not a salary, it's a fee. I don't think anyone's gonna be a councilman because of that fee. So it's actually the other way around. Is there a ratio for the large difference in remuneration that there is when the work is more or less comparable? What I'm saying now is that I want to start that conversation and that if there's consensus that this should be done, I want to see if we can solve it. Of course, I need to do that as soon as possible. I'd like to meet you at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you for that. It is indeed a compensation, a compensation for the time they spend for the community. It's a small fee for all the work. I also did it for 15 years in Roermond City Council. I am waiting for that letter and I hope that we can really make future council members happy in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	I stress the point that support for council members is not new. But the point I wanted to make yesterday in my contribution is that the difference between municipalities is very large when it comes to the support that council members could call on, for example an education to do their job properly. Does the Minister agree with me that all council members in our country should have equal access to training or support opportunities to perform their duties properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yeah, that's a very good point. I might have crossed that a little too quickly. This kind of support is quite different from one municipality to another. This also has to do with the size of the municipality. This concerns both the support that can be expected from the Registry and the support that comes from its own political party. So I do agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that support should be good. Part of this can be offset by the offer that exists, for example, from the UNG and from professional associations, but not just from them. I think we ask a lot of council members, and not every council member is, for example, Finance spokesman, but every council member must be able to understand the budget. And that is why this training is crucial, and I also think that support is important. If we were to limit it to compensation alone, that would indeed be too narrow an approach. So I am in favour of a broader approach, and I want to start that conversation in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	Do you therefore agree with me that we should take the need that exists among council members themselves and that the offer should not be leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	I think that, for some of the issues I mentioned, the budget and the finances are best placed to say that there is some kind of basic knowledge and that it is not bad at all if the offer is aimed at ensuring that everyone can at least have access to it. At the same time, I very much agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that council members have very different backgrounds, different types of knowledge and different experiences, and that there is indeed a need for customization, almost at the level of the individual. There are a lot of council members, so I can't say that we can make a tailor-made offer to every councilman, but I can promise you that that's how I want to start the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	Then, and I look at Mr Van Touch immediately: the referendum. The referendum is a tried and tested means in many countries to involve more people. Many questions were asked yesterday, not only by Mr Van Raak, but also by Mr Öztürk, for example. And I understand that, too. I understand that, because the government agreement states that the consultative referendum did not bring what was expected of it, and that for that reason the government will withdraw that consultative referendum. I understand that, because although there has only just been a referendum, there has been a second one in preparation, but there has been a lot of discussion about, for example, the threshold of entry, the question of which subjects are actually suitable for such a consultative referendum, the possible interpretations of the outcome and the fact that the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine has not really restored confidence in politics. You could even argue the opposite: it has in some sense also damaged confidence in politics. This, while the very purpose of democratic renewal must be to strengthen confidence in politics and governance. In my view, therefore, the political and social support for the consultative referendum has also been undermined. Hence this pass and hence that you can expect a proposal from me to repeal the Advisory referendum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	Have you now completed this item on the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	I can also, of course, answer Mr Van Raak's second question immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	I would ask you to answer all the questions relating to the referendum first. Mr Van Raak will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	Fine. Then I have a few points. The proposal which your Chamber will then be able to accept will, of course, also have to make a choice as to whether that repeal law itself is referendable. I haven't made that choice yet. The cabinet still has to look into that. I cannot therefore give an answer to that at the moment. Mrs Van der Graaf asked for extra attention to be paid to municipalities that have to pay for organising a referendum. Of course, this is always the case, but the special thing is that there will be 55 municipalities where no municipal elections will be held on 21 March, but where a referendum will be held. I think I can reassure Mrs Van der Graaf on that point, because they will receive higher compensation for organising the referendum. I will discuss this with the VNG and I will inform you more about the amount and the time of payment of that compensation. But I'm actually assuming that's what's going to happen with the Spring 2018 note. Those were my comments on the consultative referendum, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	I find this rather disgusting. The Minister says that the referendum did not bring what we expected. We had one referendum. There was a result, and a number of parties, including D66, disagreed with that result. And then the Minister says: there is no more support for the referendum, and this is wrong, and that is wrong, and there should be a discussion about it, so we are repealing the law! That's crazy, isn't it? There will be an evaluation in a number of years. If the Minister says that the referendum law does not fully work on a number of technical points, then she must come up with a new bill. Then she has to do something about the thresholds or the number of signatures. But you can't say there are some problems with this law, so we're moving him in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr Van Raak is not in favour of this. I had that suspicion yesterday. Mr Van Raak is a member of the SP, so I understand that. But I believe that a strong democracy must also be a learning democracy. I am not going to repeat all the objections to this form of the consultative referendum, but I can understand very well that when the coalition agreement was drawn up there was already a choice to repeal this law. However, we must of course do everything we can to involve people as much as possible in politics and give them as many instruments as possible to ensure that they are truly involved. I believe that this can also be done at local level. I have just given a number of examples from local democracy. Once again, this referendum has not only brought politics but also the people in the Netherlands what they had hoped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	That's right. And that's because the voice of the residents was thrown into the garbage can. That is why I have defended a law for a real referendum in the same place as the Minister is now standing. I have just listened with increasing amazement to the debate on the right to challenge. They are all highly educated citizens, from D66 and GroenLinks, who sit in a room with each other, all express their own interests and then fight at the end of the evening. These are the experiences of civic participation. There is only one right to challenge, and that is: if we adopt a law in this Chamber, then the people, every Dutchman, not only have the canal belt of D66, but every Dutchman has the right to reverse stupid decisions. That's the only right to challenge. Surely it is impossible for a D66 minister here to claim that this would be undemocratic and unworkable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	On the other hand, I think there is a certain dedain for the citizens of the Netherlands if Mr Van Raak puts it that way. It's about civilians who are able to run a community center. We see it happening in a lot of towns. Citizens would like that. These are citizens who are able to run a sports association and citizens who are able to fix the park in their neighbourhood. I think that's very nice to see. This is not just for highly educated people, which Mr Van Raak seems to be suggesting. Mr Van Raak also said that we were in the middle of a real referendum here. I assume that he is not suggesting that the consultative referendum would then be a fake preferendum. But I heard him right. There may also be a central issue there. The advisory nature of the Advisory referendum Act has led to confusion. Once again, people's expectations are that the result of a referendum will be taken on board. The consultative referendum does not see that at all. It's just advice. That is an additional reason for me to think that it is a good thing to repeal that law, but to keep looking for better ways to involve people in political decision-making, apart from the elections, of course, which is the real time when everyone can choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	The Minister has some nerve saying that I'm being condescending about civilians. But in the referendum on the European Constitution, the Netherlands said no. And then D66 and other parties here said: oh, we don't care about the opinion of the citizens. In the Ukraine referendum, the Netherlands also said no. And then D66 and all the other parties said: oh, the opinion of the citizens doesn't matter, we always know better. I'd like to ask the Minister one thing. She's still thinking about being referendable to the Revocation Act. That scares me. Then we really get DDR states. I want to know clearly from this minister that she is going to abide by the law and at least ensure that, if there ever is a repeal law for the consultative referendum, the government does not have the guts to say that that is not referendable. That would be some kind of coup. That would be an incredible middle finger to the people of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	I can hardly imagine the Minister doubting that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	I would like to say to Mr Van Raak that I started saying here this afternoon that I think it is important that I am there for everyone, for ordinary citizens and for unusual citizens, for people who feel involved and for people who do not feel involved, for people who do not feel heard. So let us try to find each other that in what we have said we both did not want to do injustice to the citizens for whom I think we are both in this Chamber. I have to start making the repeal law at all. So allow me to think about that for a moment. Of course, you can expect me, and everyone, to abide by the law. There's no question about that. But the draft of the repeal law is still the subject of consultation. I will also speak about this in the Cabinet. So I am not going to promise Mr Van Raak anything at all on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	I have heard fine words from the Minister about the renewal of democracy. But if I listen further, this actually seems to mean that civic participation and civic involvement only apply at local level because of the development of the right to challenge. By abolishing the referendum, you will remove the only tool citizens have to advise us on our policies. Is that the innovation you're thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	I assume that you and I, and everyone involved in the administration of this country, have a great deal of and frequent contact with citizens. I do not think that the consultative referendum, of which we have had one example in recent years, is the only instrument. I think we are all constantly trying to think about how we are not only in the elections once every four years, but are actually in constant contact with those same citizens in the performance of our functions. I therefore disagree with Mrs Özütok. I have just said that there are quite a few problems with the consultative referendum. I am convinced that many citizens are not satisfied with how this has worked out in practice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	I do not think it is very democratic to throw it right over the head after one bad or less successful experience. That's the first thing. You yourself state that there are technical defects to this law. Then we also have the responsibility to correct those defects with each other. You're talking about learning. Then you'd have to develop this, wouldn't you? There is already a law, an instrument has been given to citizens to regulate participation properly, but you do not pick up that second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	I said the cabinet would come up with a proposal. That will be discussed here in this Chamber. In the end, the Chamber, democracy, decides on this. I look forward to discussing this with you when the proposal is put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	In my view, we should not abolish it, but develop it further. I don't think we're on the same page. That is what I mean by the renewal of democracy. So develop that referendum and continue with the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	It began very nicely this afternoon when the minister started to say: "I want to be more or less the voice of the unheard of. I want to listen to the citizens. Together with the citizens, I want to restore confidence between politics and citizens." Then I thought: okay, the Minister might not go along with the abolition of the consultative referendum and she will defend it with all the fibers in her body, as Mr Rutte said yesterday. But no. I'm sorry about that for a D66 minister. She says, more or less, that when it comes to parks and sports clubs, people can talk and decide with them. But the national work determines D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	My question is: is that the path taken by the D66 Minister to restore citizens' confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	I have just argued that everything that is decided here in Parliament, the highest body there is, is done by people representing the Dutch. Perhaps the most important and best thing we can do for the Netherlands is do our job well. If there have been elections, the People's Assembly will do its job here in the Chamber. Ministers are doing their job by presenting proposals to the Chamber and legislative proposals. Here we are debating on the basis of the mandate given to you and to us by the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	If the Minister argues in this way, we do not need any form of participation, because if the parties do their job well and listen carefully to the people, it will be fine. You are more or less eliminating all forms of participation, because we must do this work well. But there are issues that are very sensitive. Then it is good if politics goes to the citizens. Then we ask our citizens, who we are actually doing it for, for a new mandate and a new direction. That's a consultative direction. The parties can then decide on this. Do you think that Parliament has not done its job well in recent times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, not at all. It was about whether the consultative referendum was the only instrument to make citizens feel involved in politics. I'd like to fight that. I think we should make sure that citizens feel involved in politics every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	So do we. But just because it didn't go exactly as D66 or some coalition parties wanted, doesn't mean we're going to abolish such an important instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	However, may I refer to the debate that will undoubtedly continue here on the withdrawal proposal that the cabinet will make?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	Like previous speakers, the Animal Party is deeply shocked that D66 wants to abolish the crown jewel, the consultative referendum, and that the Minister is now doing this with three sentences. We find that deeply and deeply shocking. That is a blow to the face of democracy. It's also a blow to the face of the citizen. I would like to hear from the Minister how she will deal with a possible no from the citizens in the consultative referendum on the drag law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	D66 speaks for himself here. I'm not. I have explained quite extensively my objections to the consultative referendum. That was a lot more than three sentences. I should like to deal with the referendum that is to come in a little more detail when I come to the issue of security and the Wiv. I would also like to congratulate both the initiators and Arjen Lubach on the fact that this referendum will take place. This will take place on 21 March. If Mrs Arissen is okay with it, I'll answer her question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	I look forward to the Minister's reply. I can only conclude that D66 and also this new cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	No, Mr Verhoeven. You mustn't interfere with the order. No. No, you're not the only one. Some of your colleagues are talking about D66 executives. That can be a matter of state law. D66 sits in the hall and the minister speaks on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	I would just like to say that I was here yesterday as a spokesperson to answer questions from my colleagues. There were zero questions to the D66 Group about the cabinet's intention to abolish consultative referenda. I therefore find it strange that we are talking about a D66 minister all the time. You should have asked the D66 Group yesterday. You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	Good. Please continue, Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	Then Mr Verhoeven did not listen to my speech, because that was about half about abolishing the crown jewel of D66. I await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yet nicely we have dragged that in as a Lower House that we are allowed to talk about parks. That is pure profit for democracy today. The words "shocked" have been used a little too much in the last ten minutes. I find it strange, at least, that the Minister even says about the repeal of the referendum law that we are not going to vote on it. The minister hints at that. That suggests at least that she does not have any arguments for this yet, but that the outcome is already known, namely that no referendum is going to take place on that, because the Minister is going to lose it horribly. Do I understand that she doesn't have any arguments yet and that she is still hoping for policy staff to produce them for her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	No, what Mr Bosma has to draw from my words is that I have not yet written a proposal and that I have not submitted it to the cabinet either. That is why I cannot yet answer the question put by Mr Van Raak in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	I understand. The paperwork isn't here yet. But the Minister does not yet have any arguments to answer the question as to why we should not vote on that law. We can now vote on every law, but the Minister hints that we should not vote on the repeal of that referendum law. She just said that. Does she have any arguments for what she is going to do, but what is not yet on paper? Why can't we vote on the repeal of that referendum law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	This Chamber will have to vote on that. But I assume you are talking about an advisory referendum on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. And if you will allow me, I would like to look at both the Advisory referendum Act, which also contains exceptions, and the opinions given on this subject. Again, I'm not saying it's not. I'm just not saying I can say I am now. And I do not find that unrealistic, given that there is no proposal yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	Let's not play games with each other. The Minister is simply going to say, with a lot of legal situations surrounding it, that the citizens of the Netherlands are not going to vote on the repeal of the referendum law. That's what she says. Then I come out of my chair and say, "Oh, why not?" What are your arguments, Madam Secretary? I hope the President will give the floor to the Minister to answer that. What are the arguments that we should not vote on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	There are undoubtedly arguments for and arguments against. I've been in place for three weeks. I have looked into all kinds of issues in order to give you the best possible answer today. I started this, but I still have to finish it. I also have to talk to my colleagues in the cabinet about it. So I simply cannot give you an answer, because there is not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think this point is clear. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	But the minister isn't an official, is he? The Minister is a minister. Does this minister consider it possible for the government to take away a democratic right given to citizens, which is very much welcomed by a vast majority of people, without the citizens being allowed to express their views on it? Does this minister think that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	As a minister, I think it is particularly important that I act carefully. Just because I want to be careful, I would like to have put something on paper first and have looked carefully at what is actually in the law. Then I come up with a proposal, initially in the cabinet, because I also want to know if my colleagues have the same analysis as I do. And then I'll come to you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	That seems clear to me, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	I made a joke yesterday about DDR66, but at the moment I feel very bad. I really hope that the Minister will return to her pace and clarify as soon as possible, because this is a real blow to the face of all the citizens who want to have a voice, who want to join in and decide and also want to correct us if we are making fun of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	I repeat, I haven't even made a proposal yet. You can ask for something that is not yet on paper, but I cannot answer that. So don't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mrs Özütok, everything has been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	I would like to hear a term from the Minister. I'm told you want to put a rush on it. It would help us very much if you could also mention a term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	I understand that question very well. I find it difficult to do it very precisely. Given that it is in the coalition agreement and I have already said that the repeal law is coming, I would add that I want to do so as soon as possible. But again, I would also like to do it very carefully. So I'm afraid to give you a very hard time. Take it from me that I understand that you want to know soon. I would also like to do it quickly, but I do have to respect the deadlines for dealing with the cabinet and the like. He'll be here as soon as he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, the debate on democratic renewal has one more component: the State Committee on Parliamentary System. As chairman of the committee, Mr Remkes has already presented an analysis on the strengths and weaknesses of Dutch parliamentary democracy. You are well aware of the principle of representation, of the role of political parties, of the formation of the cabinet, of the power of the national government and of the two chamber system. At the request of the cabinet, this committee will also involve the electoral system and its regional function, as well as the subject of constitutional review in relation to the position of the First Chamber. The committee is at work and at the end of next year we will get the recommendations from the committee. By then, we will undoubtedly be able to have the debate on it together. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of 'bearable democracy'. Because, of course, democracy is not just about renewing democracy; it is also about defending the democratic rule of law and making democracy more resilient. There are several forms that can undermine the democratic rule of law and we must pay close attention to it. What I think is a very serious form and something we also see in the Netherlands is intimidating political ministers. Another theme that has been going on for some time is the funding of anti-democratic organisations. We see intimidation through the so-called troll. We see fake news being spread, also focused on influence and undermining. I sent the Chamber two letters about that. Mrs. Kuik asked what the actual reason for that letter was. Quite simply put, but Mrs Kuik knows that, of course, too, the reason was that in the debate on the government statement by Mr Buma was asked for a letter about the influence, which he at least suspected, on public opinion in the Netherlands from other countries. That's why I sent that letter. That letter naturally gives rise to a debate in this Chamber but also to a social debate. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Molen have asked a lot of questions and made a lot of comments. This also applies to Mr Bosma, who has asked, among other things, what exactly shows that people are being influenced. He referred to the AIVD's Annual Report 2016. It seemed for a moment that we gave a different interpretation of that. That annual report states that Russia's activities also focus on influencing decision-making processes, influencing imagery and influencing public opinion. In this form of collusive political influence, the dissemination of disinformation and the dissemination of propaganda play a role. We shouldn't be naive, either. We know that Russia has a long tradition in this area. I think we need to realise that the impact of this can be very large and that we need to be aware of the possibilities of influence and the possibilities of manipulation. I took a look at the explanations given by the Director-General of the AIVD when presenting the annual report. He has said that Russia is extremely active in the field of espionage and the spread of fake news. He also stated that I think Mr Bosma meant that Russia has not succeeded in influencing the Dutch electoral process as such. The dg of the AIVD has indicated that it is certainly imaginable that it is possible to try to push Dutch voters in the wrong direction by spreading messages that are not or only partially true. So that's what was brought out in April of this year by the dg of the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	I would like to propose that you conclude this point and then Mr Bosma will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	Fine. Mr Bosma also asked about the definition of fake news and about the website that I mentioned in one of the two letters as an example. By fake news or fake news, I mean disinformation disguised as news distributed by state actors with the aim of influencing public opinion. It's not really about judging news. There are two powerful ways to act against it. The first is that citizens are critical and the second is having good and independent journalism. The moment the state actors spread this kind of news, a border is crossed. I think that it is extremely important, and that is why I am really pleased with the debate that is taking place on this subject, and that we are aware of this and that we are not naive and realize that the Netherlands is not an island, that the things that happen in the United States, in the UK, in Germany, Spain, Estonia and other countries can happen in the Netherlands and on a larger scale. To come back to that annual report at the beginning of this year, it was therefore a question of the previous cabinet taking into account the launch of an influence campaign, which the cabinet was particularly vigilant about during the election period. I referred to this in my letter. Then about the website; excuses, I almost forgot. So it is a website that gives the impression that it is an official website of the Dutch government but it is not. The address of the website to which Mr Bosma asked is known to me. I can't give it to him, because we shouldn't do them the pleasure that many people are going to click on that website and get unwanted consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	"I can't give you that website"? The story in De Telegraaf about three pages was that the elections were influenced. Now it is: it happens via a website but I can't tell which website it was. Now the Minister says something quite different than the chocolate letters in De Telegraaf, because now it is: the influence can be great. That is something fundamentally different from what was told on Monday. It was then that the elections in the Netherlands were really influenced. So now it's actually just a hypothetical thing, like: it could happen in the future. Or do I see a tension that isn't there between De Telegraaf's coverage, put in by this minister, and what we're hearing today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	I sent your room two letters. That's what I'm referring to. I think it is extremely serious and serious that this is happening and that it is happening in the Netherlands. I said that we have no evidence that it is happening on a very large scale. There is, of course, evidence that it has happened on a large scale in the United States and in the UK. There is no reason to think that this could not happen here too. So I think we should be very vigilant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yes, I agree with you, but that is contrary to the kettles that have been beaten over the last few days and the state of emergency that has just not been declared. I'm glad the Minister's nuanced her own story now. I'm fine with all of that. Much ado about nothing, I say. I have another question. We finally have a definition of fake news. I'm happy about that. One thing struck me, namely that it is produced by "state actors." Then you hold that definition and you look at how it is used in speech usage by all kinds of people. Now yesterday, the Minister referred to my first-term contribution as fake news. But that's contrary to the definition, because I'm not a state actor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	I do not fully understand Mr Bosma. On the one hand, he says that we should all take it very seriously and, of course, that it is something we should not want. In the same sentence he then says: it's much ado about nothing. It can't be both true. I would like to stick to the first part of his speech, which is that it is extremely serious. Things have happened in the Netherlands, but things have certainly happened abroad. If in the US proven 126 million people are confronted with advertisements that appear to have been purchased by in this case Russians who have a certain influence on the presidential elections, that is a serious signal. If tens of thousands of Russian twitter accounts are active at the time of the brexireféendum, that can of course be a coincidence, but I honestly do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	I totally agree, but the story the minister presented earlier was that the elections in the Netherlands were actually affected. If you ask through, it just doesn't turn out to be true. I'm okay with that, but I'm going back to the concept of fake news. It's very dangerous what's happening now. It's stuck everywhere. Anyone who doesn't speak politically correctly is told: fake news. The Minister did the same yesterday. She's free to do that, although it's a little unusual to comment on MPs, but fine, I'm fine with it. The Minister said that what I said as a parliamentarians in my position as a first-term controller of power is fake news. That is contrary to the definition she uses herself. Isn't there a frivolous interpretation of that concept now? Or is she going to stick to the definition she used herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	No, I like to hold on to my own words. You asked for a definition. I gave it to you. That does not alter the fact that the term fake news is used much wider in popular terms and in the coverage. It is not a protected concept, I would say to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	Does the Minister agree that citizens also play a role in this in terms of resilience? How does the Minister intend to increase the resilience of citizens against disinformation and fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	I very much agree with that. I think that is a very relevant point, because I think that is what this is all about. When we have critical Dutch people, when the children learn how to distinguish between real news and fake news, we lay a very good foundation. That is one of the reasons why I think it is a good thing that we are having this social discussion with each other now. A few more questions have also been asked by Mr Verhoeven, and I shall go into them in a moment. But I think it's really essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	An exclusive interview with De Telegraaf, only quotes for them, opening newspaper. I think: there is now something really new going on. We all need to talk seriously right now. So that's why I'm really serious: what's new? What are the new facts with which we can show that there is serious interference by Russia in our democracy? I take it extremely seriously; I think it is true. But when I opened the newspaper, I thought there were new facts and circumstances. I would like confirmation from the Minister whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mrs Kuik has, I think, given that both letters have now been sent in the letter, because I have sent a letter at Mrs Kuik's request, which also refers to previous reports. Reference is made to the previous annual report of the AIVD. Reference is made to the report issued by the cybersecurity unit. In that sense, it was already known. As I have just said, the previous cabinet has also paid a great deal of attention to it. New is that the phenomenon is developing further. What kind of tactics are being used by countries that do this kind of action? What kind of resources are they using? What good is it going to do for these countries? When you look at this phenomenon, it seems to be about creating a form of division and using situations that arise. As regards the situation in Catalonia, it is said in Spain, and I say immediately that I read in the newspaper that it has been used in the same way. So it is a phenomenon that is developing and growing. In the media, though, I do not think it was De Telegraaf, but one of the other microphones I spoke to on the same day, I also said that with the prospect of not only the municipal elections but also the referendum, I think that we are very vigilant about this. So it's a growing phenomenon worldwide. That is why I welcomed Mr Buma's request. The cabinet thinks it is important not only to do this; Mr Grapperhaus and other colleagues are also involved in doing everything we can to prevent any effective influence from taking place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	In fact, I have to say that old news has been baked up and re-served. I don't like it when it comes to such an important subject. You say that there are new signals that developments are taking place and that we need to be alert. I think so, too. But as a representative of the people, I want to know: what concretely? And what can we actually do about that? I have also asked you: can we take action against Russia, among other things, criminal law? It is too important to serve old news as news without knowing exactly what we are up to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	I am sorry that Mrs Kuik sees it that way. I think it is good that we have been aware of this for a long time. It is also a good thing that the previous cabinet has paid a lot of attention to it. I think it is also very good that we are moving forward with this now, because the phenomenon is developing further. We don't see that it's decreasing, but we see that it's increasing. This issue is also being discussed in Brussels, at European level. I have also announced, perhaps, that I should include this immediately, and that we really do opt for a broad approach. I have announced that the cabinet, in this case Mr Grapperhaus and I, will be talking to media and tech companies, because they have an important role to play in countering this kind of influence. Those contacts have already been established. We'll be at the table in a couple of weeks. I read that your room also wants to have a similar conversation with them. The Netherlands is committed at European level to stepping up joint initiatives or exchanging knowledge of different initiatives in Member States. The Netherlands will actively contribute to an initiative by the European Commission to explore in depth in a High-Level Expert Group how disinformation and the dissemination of disinformation can be countered. So there are initiatives, and it is extremely urgent that we continue to do so very hard and together with other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	I share that alertness and I share the concerns. Only, when it is said that we should be extra alert because there are allegations, I want to know: how then, what then, why concretely? That impression was also raised in the Telegraaf interview. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that we are not yet any further in the information on this matter to know what is new in relation to what we knew earlier. I'd still like to know. That's important to us. It's too important to turn it into a you-baking game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	I do not think that Mrs Kuik and the other Members of Parliament expect the government to act until something has happened, but that she is also acting to prevent things from happening. The awareness, which I think is now growing in the Netherlands, is one of the things that I think are very important in this trend. The public debate on this, the discussion with the other parties that can play a role in it, and ensuring European cooperation to counter collusive political influence by state actors, are all steps that this cabinet is taking to ensure that we do not become victims in the same way of what we have already seen materialising in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	The CDA is very pleased that the Minister has indicated that he is taking the problem seriously. I will not ask the Minister why it is that Mr Bosma always screams murder and fire when it comes to Erdogan's long arm reaching into the polder, but that he suddenly sneaks out of the Chamber submissively when it comes to Putin's long arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	This is not a question, Mr Van der Molen. Just asking your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	I know. I come to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	Yeah, right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr President, a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	Wait a minute. Mr Van der Molen, you are asking questions to the Minister. Mr. Bosma's already been here. If you ask him a question in between and the Minister, we'll get a block of free wrestling, and we've had that this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr President, I could not predict that Mr Bosma would splash out of his chair. That's what's happened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	You're doing it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr Van der Molen, you are a liar! You shouldn't say that kind of thing about Putin this-and-that. Just tell the truth. You want to ask the Minister a question. Then ask the Minister a question and don't involve me in lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr President, I notice that Mr Bosma feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	This is exactly what I want to warn you about. Mr Van der Molen, ask the Minister. No, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, whether they agree with CDA that we should not just wait for concrete cases to occur, but that we should really prepare for new developments. Does she wish to inform us as a Chamber of what steps she has in her arsenal in order to be able to deploy? That's one. Secondly, I would like to know from the Minister whether she would like to make use of the additional resources that this cabinet makes available to strengthen the AIVD on this subject. It does not have to be done in advance, but at least I would like to hear the Minister's willingness to look at it when extra effort is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	On both points, I would like to say to Mr Van der Molen that I am doing so. In any case, I intended to inform the Chamber after the discussion I had with Mr Grapperhaus with the tech companies. I can do that a little bit wider. Media companies have also shown interest in starting this conversation with us. There are also scientists who have come forward. So I would like to say that to Mr Van der Molen. As far as the additional resources are concerned, the cabinet still has to consider them, but of course I would also like to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	I think we should do everything we can to ensure that other states have no influence on our democracy. Let's be honest and open about that. But I can see that a number of other aspects still have an impact. I also asked questions in the first term. Minister Patel had to resign in England because she had talks with Mossad members and Netanyahu during her holiday period, who she didn't call. I see a tendency for political parties to receive money from wealthy American organizations. Isn't that something you really need to spend a lot of time in, rather than just scaring people a little bit through De Telegraaf: look, Putin is going to do all this with you now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	I have already written to the question about the British Minister. I referred to a blue book and said that I believe that we in the Netherlands have organised such matters well and transparently. I have just mentioned financial flows as one of the examples of potential undermining. So we certainly need to pay attention to that. I regret that Mr Öztürk says that this is a campaign to scare people. On the contrary! Those are not at all the reactions I see from people. It's about raising people's awareness. On the contrary, I see a great deal of commitment and a great deal of concern. That concern is also justified. We are going to work on this in order to ensure that we do not become the victims of this kind of foreign influence and undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	When I look at the Confidence Index, I see that the media in the Netherlands are the last ones people trust. Because our media does not seem to have the confidence of our citizens, our citizens are looking for other sources of information. I think a conversation with the media is good to see how they can regain the trust of society. I think that, apart from the fear of Putin, you should also look at the factors why people believe that news and how we can improve our coverage in the Netherlands. Are you going to take action for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	This is actually a bit of the question that Mrs Özütok also asked. It all starts with critical citizens. Fortunately, the Netherlands is full of critical Dutch people, but the awareness about this can still be improved and we are going to work hard on that. I believe that we have an excellent and independent journalism in the Netherlands. I think we should be very proud of that. I do agree with Mr Öztürk that it is also about other forms of media. Social media has become increasingly important. That's why I want to start the conversation. By the way, I am very happy that companies like Facebook and Google are also very willing to start that conversation. With that, they show that they want to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	You say that we have excellent media, but how can it be that our citizens do not trust our media? Would you like to investigate that? What's that all about? You say that they function excellently, but in the Confidence Index they are in the last place. In addition, there are social media. That's right. We have a blogger, the Daily Standard, spreading fake news every day. As a result, we receive threats the next day or week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	Are you willing to talk to such news channels as well to see what that will do to our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	I have just said that we would like to engage with tech companies that are platforms for disseminating news. I also want to start talking to media companies. They've already come forward for this. So I've already promised that I'll start the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	In the letter of the Chamber on fake news, the Minister wrote: the introduction of the tow law is necessary to combat fake news. I would like to know from the Minister what powers under the new Intelligence and Security Services Act...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	I think that bit's still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u165	Yeah, but this is really about fake news. What new powers from the Wiv or its addition will help combat this fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mrs Arissen's first sentence was not a quote from my letter. If she suggests that what I put in my letter is about the introduction of the new Wiv, she is wrongly suggesting it. I also said to her just now that this is something I wanted to put on the agenda and what is happening now, also in the run-up to 21 March. The new Wiv is here, because it has been adopted by Parliament, but Mrs Arissen also knows that it has not yet entered into force. In fact, I informed you last week or the week before that that I expect that the entry into force can only be 1 May next year, because of the care of the installation of the review committee, which has to judge in advance. There's no connection. However, a new legal framework is needed for intelligence and security services. It's ready. There are a number of safeguards within that legal framework. I would like to talk more about this later. The new cabinet has taken office. The passage on this in the coalition agreement looks at these safeguards. We have a little time for that now. There is no causal link, but I would like to emphasise that a new legal framework is essential for the operation of the intelligence and security services. That's what I said in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u167	In the United States there are large-scale opportunities to tap innocent citizens and listen to the order of the day. They haven't been able to fight fake news there. How does the Minister judge this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mrs Arissen wants to know exactly what happened in the United States of America, but of course I do not know. I will come back to the Wiv in a little more detail, if that's all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u169	It's good that we have a pretty broad definition of fake news. It extends from Putin's trolls to the communication staff and informers here in the ministries. Last week, in the General Political Reviews, we had a debate in which it was said: if you are in favour of the referendum on the drag law, then you are actually co-responsible for terrorism. In her letter, the Minister made a link between the fight against fake news and the referendum on 21 March next year. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: that tow law is not necessary to fight fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u170	The new Intelligence and Security Services Act is needed to ensure a good and robust legal framework for the work that the security services need to do. I think that's very simple. I have just argued why this entry into force could not take place as from 1 January. I expect it could be done by 1 May. There is no causal link between one and the other. I think we should act now against foreign influence. On the other hand, we need to ensure careful implementation of the new law on intelligence and security services, but that is independent of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u171	I was just mad at the minister, but now I'm happy with the minister. It is clear: to fight fake news, which I am very much in favour of, there is no need to collect massive data from innocent Dutch citizens. Those two things are not causally connected. Well, that's good, then hopefully we can have a serious, substantive discussion with each other in the run-up to the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u172	It is never necessary to collect massive data from Dutch citizens, if that is what Mr Van Raak suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u173	No, Mrs. Arissen, you just came. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u174	That Telegraph story doesn't really leave anything. I had already said in my term that there was simply a Brussels campaign, a frightening campaign. There would actually be influence. The Minister went on to do so, while she had no information to support her claim. That's what we're establishing now. Then something else. Until a few weeks ago, Mrs Ollongren in Amsterdam was still involved in the grey campaign. Through videos that no one was allowed to know the sender was trying to influence jihadists. It was some kind of secret project that produced fake news. Ms Ollongren, deputy mayor, was involved. Does she herself consider that she has a great deal of credibility to say something about fake news, given that she herself was involved in its production?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u175	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Arissen, because what I just said was not quite right. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u176	First of all, I would like to contradict what Mr Bosma said in his little introduction. I have given you examples in two letters which show that it is indeed happening in the Netherlands. We shouldn't be naive. To those who say 'go to sleep, because there is nothing going on', I would like to say: look around you; take it seriously and let Dutch people know that this is a serious threat to us. We all really have to do something about that. The least we can do is be incredibly alert. On the second point: Mr Bosma has stuck to my previous position, and he has now asked questions about it. The easiest answer is, of course, that I find it difficult to give answers here as a minister about something that plays in Amsterdam and in the Amsterdam City Council. However, let me refer to what the Amsterdam College has said about this, namely that as far as this campaign, which is called the grey campaign, is concerned, the members of the college and the board were not aware of it and that this whole campaign has never led to implementation at all. Mr. Chairman. I had another...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mrs. Arissen had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. I grabbed the Minister's letter. If I may quote a sentence from this: "To continue to conduct this investigation' "it is about the fake news "is the legal framework of the Wiv 2017' "that is, therefore, the dragnet law "necessary'. What powers are required under that law to combat the fake news? I would like to add that there are serious concerns on the part of the press and the media that the introduction of this law will damage the freedom of the press and the protection of their sources. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u179	Yeah, I'd like to respond to that. I can do that now instead of later. The new law states in the letter that it is necessary for the legal anchoring of the work done by the intelligence and security services in the field of detecting the tactics used by these countries and the means to do so. The new legal basis is an improvement to look at the whole phenomenon of using fake news or disinformation and the influence through disinformation of, for example, democratic processes in other countries. So if you see that this is an important task for the intelligence and security services, and I wanted to write it down in that letter, then we all benefit from a better legal anchoring that will monitor current technology and not the technology of the beginning of this century. With regard to the powers of journalists, lawyers and such important and sensitive professions, the new law is also important, precisely because the relevant case law in this area is incorporated into the new law and therefore provides them with the protection they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u180	On that last point, if they are no longer able to protect their sources because of massive and arbitrary tapping, how can this be a protection of freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u181	Because there are no massive and random tapping and special safeguards in the law to ensure that journalists and lawyers can do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u182	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u183	That massive and random tapping is now decided in the research assignment-related interception. Can the Minister promise that it will be removed from the law or will not enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u184	No, I can't agree to that. Because we are not talking about a proposal to amend the law here. The law has already been passed by your Chamber, not by Mrs Arissen personally, but by your Chamber. So I can't agree to that. What I can promise is that the law will not be used for mass tapping. That can, can and will not happen. So is my anchor point in the coalition agreement. I think it is extremely important that there will soon be a good balance in the application of the law between protecting the privacy of Dutch people and protecting the safety of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u185	Before we continue, I just wanted to join what was said about fake news. People were not only worried about fake news but also about hacks. Quite specifically, what is the state service doing to prevent cases such as WannaCry and large hacks by foreign or domestic parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u186	That is, of course, an excellent question, because that is another element and another method that has also been identified and has actually been widely applied in other countries. That's what we have to fight ourselves against. We must also prevent our digital infrastructure from doing so. This is also the subject of discussion between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The NCTV plays an important role in this. I cannot tell you more and more exactly what that is, but perhaps we can agree that I or my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, may or may not work with the Secretary of State, will return to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u187	Thank you for that, but I might be able to make a suggestion, because outside those bodies this has to do with people. That's why I'm joining the state service. The question then is: what can be better with the state service, especially with regard to ICT? Some of the answers that have been given this morning, for which I am grateful, also come back, but it is not really very concrete in the sense of: how are we going to make the state service so attractive that people who can actually prevent hacks are going to work there? The advantage of this discussion is that I do not think we need to talk about a definition for too long, as in the case of fake news. If the government's systems are down, we'll all know what we're talking about right away. So how are we gonna avoid hacks like that with the state service?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u188	Indeed, you have well seen in your reply that we are already working on the recruitment of IT specialists and that we should also make the work in the government as attractive as possible for them. I also think that this is very attractive, precisely because of the vital IT infrastructure we have in the government, but that is what it starts with: it starts with people; I very much agree with Mr Middendorp. As I said earlier, I would be happy to give you further information about this at another time and perhaps in further consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u189	Before I give Mrs Kuik the floor, Mrs Özütok, you have really been four times. You will not be given the floor. I would also like to know first whether the Minister can do the following points after lunch, but this part must be completed first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u190	I'm like laundry in your hands. So you're all about order, but if you'll allow me to finish this part, I think I'll need another ten minutes or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u191	Fine, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u192	I have one remaining question, which is why I'm bringing it in. What are we going to do European? I'm worried and I want more alertness, but I also want to hear things we can do. So my question to the Minister was what she is going to do personally in Europe and, for example, whether she is prepared to argue for a task force at European level to look at how we can work together against this interference, which goes beyond Russia alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u193	Oh, yeah. I have just mentioned a number of things that the cabinet wants to do in Europe. There's already been a meeting. Both my colleague from Defence and my colleague from Foreign Affairs have already been to Brussels to talk about this. I mentioned the High-Level Expert Group, which is going to carry out in-depth research into the dissemination of disinformation. A European strategy is also foreseen for the spring of 2018. I myself have been in contact with Frans Timmermans, who is also looking at countries that have already taken some steps and are particularly interested in this. He asked whether the Netherlands would also be willing to participate in such a group of countries. I said, of course, that the Netherlands would be happy to do so. So you can expect a number of initiatives from the cabinet in a large or small European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u194	May I ask you, then, will you undertake to inform us before the next JHA on how this High-Level Group is doing or possibly with such a task force? I would also like to hear what concrete steps can be taken in the relational sphere between countries or criminal measures to prevent unwanted interference and influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u195	I'd like to give you my word on that. I admit that I am doing so for the parts for which I am responsible, and that is, of course, for the JHA Council. I also admit that I am taking this to the cabinet, because for a number of points I have just mentioned, other colleagues are at the table in Brussels, but the cabinet always speaks with one voice. So I'd be happy to, Mrs. Chicken. Mr Verhoeven's questions on this point have, I think, already been answered in part. He had three proposals which he would like to see put forward in the discussions we have with the tech companies. They were about openness about algorithms, about information about lenders and about a campaign. I think that is all very welcome suggestions. I like to take them with me in those conversations. I think it's wise to be open to other people's ideas anyway. There are quite a few people and parties who want to think along; they have reported in recent days as a result of the reports. A second part of this theme concerns undermining and local government. I think we'll be able to finish that before lunch. I was already talking about how we can protect local government, how we can equip them to ensure that they do not suffer from people who, with any motive, at least not with a good, democratic motive, but rather with a criminal purpose, slowly but surely infiltrate local government. It's a real problem. Last week I went to work in Eindhoven. A number of mayors in Brabant have been calling attention to this for some time now. I think this is very undesirable. This can really lead to social disruption. I would very much like to see with the local administrators how we can equip them and how we can help them to ensure that this does not happen. Infiltration of the underworld into the upper world can have very serious consequences for the integrity of governance. This has been going on for some time and there have been very good steps taken for some time now, I mentioned a number of mayors in Brabant's town, but it has not gone away with that. We need to be very alert about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u196	Were you done with this subject? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u197	Well, I narrowed it down a little bit, because I saw so many people standing by the interrupting microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u198	If you have anything else, I'd just do it now. Then there will be a brief round of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u199	That's an invitation I'd like to take, of course. So the question is, what kind of instruments do you want these local drivers to have? Do mayors have other instruments than those they need to act now? I think that's true. I know that they are happy to discuss this with me. We must realise that in the Netherlands we are blessed with a very high quality public administration, but also that we must at the same time make very high demands on the integrity of that administration and that the primary responsibility for this lies with the political parties themselves. The political parties recruit the people who come on their lists. So that's where it starts. The municipal councils can then decide for themselves that, for example, they impose certain requirements when aldermen are appointed. A vog is an example of this, but of course they can also make other demands. Then mayors already have a certain responsibility and competence to promote administrative integrity. For example, there are safeguards in the law to be able to act, for example in the case of ancillary functions, prohibited acts or incompatible relations. Only at the end of this escalation ladder, where we would prefer not to come at all, will the right to stand as a candidate be deprived in the event of fraud or corruption. It's embedded in criminal law. Finally, Mr Öztürk asked me what I think about threats to local politicians and whether we can do something about them. In my view, I have just argued that I find this unacceptable and that I am really going to focus on a firm protection of the security and integrity of decentralised political ministers and also on a better provision of those political ministers so that they can operate effectively and act against undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u200	You were done with this point, I suppose. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u202	Undermining is not just about the resilience of our local democracy. It's really also the interwovenness of the underworld and the upperworld. You also need the Minister of Justice and Security. It must take action through the police and the public prosecutor's office. Can you say something about how you are going to work with him to deal with this problem from both sides?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr Van der Molen is quite right. The coalition agreement includes a passage on an undermining law and an undermining fund. That is what Mr Grapperhaus is responsible for. We agreed that I work mainly on the side of the local government and the directors, and that he mainly works on the undermining side. It is, of course, very important to bring that together. This was also evident in the work visit to Eindhoven, in which the commissioner of the King was also present. They have great concerns about the maintenance of public administration. They have given me examples of cases where people, aldermen and mayors, just almost literally perish. We can't let that happen. I'll take that as my job. Tackling the undermining and the crime that actually caused it must be done through the approach of Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u204	I have two additional points. My first question is whether, together with the Minister for Justice and Security, you would like to inform the Chamber about how this coherence is well established, because it is very important. My second question concerns the involvement of the King's Commissioner; the Minister has already mentioned him. The Governor of Limburg has also recently made a number of comments on what he sees in his province. Can the Minister promise that she will also take the position of the province into account in this effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u205	On the first point, I would like to make that commitment. We will inform you about this. I'll discuss that with Grapperhaus. On the second point, I have had contact with Mr Bovens. I read the same article you read. We have a meeting with all the King's commissioners on Monday. We agreed by phone that we would put this on the agenda there. So that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u206	I welcome the positive steps and the signals given by the Minister on how to make public administration more resilient. However, I would like to put a little more urgency on it. For example, a recent issue of the Home Government magazine states that in one quarter of the municipalities one way or another undermining is experienced. Can the Minister give us a hint of the veil on the possibility of screening candidate aldermen? And by whom should that happen? By, for example, the AIVD, the FIOD or the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u207	Yes, Mrs Den Boer actually asked that question yesterday. The term "screening" is now used for a very wide understanding. It's actually kind of a general concept. I just argued that you can actually apply different degrees. Municipal councils can already decide to apply them. In addition, a vog is the lightest form and a real screening the most true. What I'm mapping now is all that's in between. I think you should look for customization. We realise, without doubt, that this is a little complicated for aldermen and delegates, because politicians are not really able to carry out a screening in the classical sense of the word. But you can make all kinds of other demands. Again, I don't want to rule it out. I can imagine that, in specific cases, the city council, the political groups or the mayor are still asking for the possibility of screening. I think these should be exceptions. I'm working on that. I am primarily talking about this with the representatives of the municipalities, the VNG and mayors. I would like to assure Mrs Den Boer that I will inform her and the rest of the Chamber about the results and the possibilities we see for applying this screening in the broad sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u208	I welcome this explanation and commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u209	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I am going to stay relatively far from the interrupting microphone today, except if the Secretary of State is going to answer some of my questions in the near future, but I have one question to the Minister about something she has just said. With regard to the talks with the tech companies, she said that she would let the Chamber know how that went. Can she tell when that's about? Can it also address the bots and trolls of those tech companies in the conversation? I ask her to include that aspect, in addition to the algorithms and the advertisements, in that conversation and to let the Chamber know how that ends. Then we've added the whole package of parts that came from D66-side. But there may also be ideas in the other groups. I think it is very good that the Minister is trying to involve as many ideas as possible from the Chamber in that discussion, because it is a broad subject. I have also heard suggestions from the PvdA Group, for example. So I'm very curious about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u210	I'd love to. The bots and trolls are listed as the fourth wish of Mr Verhoeven and of course I am happy to include other wishes I have heard from the Chamber. The aim is to organise that conversation in the fairly short term. If that succeeds, I will inform you of the results by the end of the year, at least well before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u211	Thank you. I think you were done with the second topic. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u212	Yes, Mr President, that is correct, because next is the issue of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u213	Okay, and that's gonna take more time, of course. Well, then I'd actually like to suggest that we suspend now to 5:30. After the suspension is the arrangement of work and then we continue the first term on the part of the government.
