ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	The sitting will be resumed. I actually wanted to wait for Mr Graus, but he will be here any minute. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. Mrs Van den Berg is holding her maiden speech and if someone is making his or her maiden speech, they must not be interrupted. I think the Minister is very jealous of that, too. I call Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first political memory I have is the murder of Robert Kennedy in June 1968. I remember how upset my parents were, not only because of the political murder in a country that had liberated them from the war, but also because the Kennedys were important for the emancipation of Catholics in the Netherlands. The second memory is my parents' birthdays. Men and women were still divorced back then. I always sat down with the men, because they talked about politics under the direction of my uncle Frans van der Gun, a member of the Second Chamber for the KVP. I didn't care. My parents told me that you need to develop your talents and work for the common good. That's how I became a member of the CDA when I was 18. I have spent my working life in business, both large business and SMEs, and both nationally and internationally. In many ways it became clear to me how important a level playing field and balance in power relations are. As well as ensuring a level playing field in legislation and regulation, enforcement must also be ensured. There's got to be a real chance of getting caught in abuse, because laws that don't work are worthless. I also want to create a level playing field by looking at the more vulnerable regions in the Netherlands, such as the beautiful province of Zeeland, so that each region continues to have equal opportunities for a good future. In recent years, I have been getting closer and closer to politics through commission work for the CDA. I think it is honorable for me to be a Member of Parliament and to be able to defend the Constitution and the CDA's values and principles, particularly in terms of creating a level playing field. That brings me to today's topic. Our first questions are about the instruments that companies themselves could use to protect themselves from unwanted or hostile takeovers and from grasshoppers, activist shareholders. In his letter, the cabinet set out four lines of action. It tends towards a legal reflection period for the board of up to a year. The CDA agrees with the lines of action and the addition of the legal reflection period. Could the Minister confirm that the instrument of reflection is legally sustainable? As far as the CDA is concerned, this will not be the only additional instrument. The CDA likes to see a broader range of measures, so that companies can make a customised choice to protect themselves. Is the cabinet willing to make options b, c and d also possible for companies? If so, is the cabinet prepared to adjust company law when simplifying the issue of preferred protection shares, so that shares can be issued by NSAs without a profit right and/or nominal value? How does the Cabinet view the possibility of increasing, increasing the turnover by which you are obliged to set up a structural regime and reducing the current rate of 3 reporting shareholdership, so that it becomes more transparent for the company who its shareholders are? The Minister's letter and the round table also called for a large role for institutional investors in the protection of Dutch companies. The CDA would like to see the conversation with institutional investors, such as pension funds, intensified to remove barriers and to increase support for companies in the Netherlands. How is the cabinet going to deal with this in such a way that there is an increased chance that they will actually play this role? The CDA has long stressed the need for protection of Dutch companies. The CDA considers it important that vital infrastructure sectors should not fall into the wrong hands. In terms of public interest, it is important that public authorities also have tools to prevent or impose conditions on hostile or unwanted takeovers in vital sectors. In these takeovers, the CDA would like a preventive test to be carried out by a committee or by the minister on companies in those vital infrastructure sectors that are of great importance for national security, the economy and employment in the Netherlands. How does the Cabinet view such a preemptive test? The proposal is in line with a study carried out by Radboud University, which advocates a prior public review of national security and public order, or compelling reasons of general interest in order to prevent Dutch companies that are crucial for vital processes from falling into the wrong hands. The proposal is also in line with the plea of the Minister of Finance in March in the FD, in which he refers to the American Committee on Foreign Investments, which he believes could serve as an example for the Netherlands and is much wider than merely the interests of national security, public order and defence. The CDA assumes that the finance minister here spoke on behalf of the cabinet. Finally, the Netherlands has appointed vital infrastructure with vital products, services and the underlying processes. The CDA lacks the explicit guarantee of agricultural land essential for food supply, as well as essential infrastructure works. The CDA doesn't want these to fall into the wrong hands. Can the Minister indicate whether he agrees with the CDA that essential agricultural land should be added to the list of vital sectors for food supplies, as well as essential infrastructure works?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you for your beautiful and personal speech. I shall suspend the sitting so that I can first congratulate you and then congratulate colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 20 May on takeovers of companies, Minister Kamp threw a solid stone into the pond. This has led directly to a fierce public debate and to a fascinating round table on 1 June with many experts, all of whom have provided a detailed written input. The discussion focused strongly on the legal period of reflection of up to one year, which may be invoked by the board and the Commissioners in the event of a takeover bid. It was also remarkable that during the round table, including by Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW and Hans Weijers, former Minister of Economic Affairs, a clear call was made to Dutch pension funds to invest more in Dutch companies. This is due to the role that Minister Kamp sees as institutional investors to invest more in Dutch companies by removing barriers, as it is called euphemistically. In Question Time on 23 May, I already capitalised the Minister on his call in the Buitenhof programme of 21 May that pension funds can play a stabilising role in the turbulent, international economy. At that time, I referred to Article 18 (a) of the European Pension Directive and Article 135 (a) of the Pension Act, which oblige pension funds to invest exclusively in the interests of members and beneficiaries. How would the Minister encourage the funds to invest more in the Netherlands, given these obstacles? The Minister states in his letter that the board of a company is under high pressure to respond quickly to a hostile takeover bid. It is in the interest of all stakeholders that the board has sufficient time to go through a careful process. This does most justice to the long-term value creation and interests of all stakeholders, according to the Minister. Our first and most central question here is why the four existing possibilities mentioned by the Minister in his letter would not be a major step. I refer in particular to points 1 and 3 of his letter: the response time of up to 180 days and the temporary defence through more protection structures. The letter then mentions four actions. I am sorry to have to say this, but the letter is mainly due to vague wordings. No choices have yet been made and a review of all four options is missing from the European rules. I find it a little bizarre that the Minister doesn't say anything about it. Why not start working on pro and contra, especially on the one-year reflection period? We are, moreover, in favour of this in itself. And on option a, whether the increase in the minimum performance rate, a "Schlangewort," would not already be adequate protection. Is that perhaps a violation of property rights? What is the meaning of the issue of preferred protection shares, option c? Can the Minister explain the advantages and disadvantages of this option? And does he also want to go into option d? Then I come to the vital sectors. I would ask the Minister to respond to the following points concerning ex ante analyses of these sectors. On the basis of what criteria did the Minister come to these sectors? When will we get more information on this? What are the uniform principles for the choice of vital sectors and how can it be guaranteed in advance? How does the Minister intend to take care of that? What is the status of the information on the responses to the telecommunications sector following the preliminary draft? Finally, the international level playing field, reciprocity. Can the Minister respond to the report in The Financial Daily of 19 June, which states that the European Union is resisting Chinese takeovers? If they do not open up the Chinese Wall, then we should build a European Wall, that is what we now seem to think. According to Het Financiee Dagblad, the European Union would come forward in September with a concrete proposal to better protect its own strategic sectors, following the example of the United States, by checking takeovers for strategic interests. We look forward to this proposal with great interest. Finally, I would ask the Minister whether it would be better to wait for proposals from the European Commission in September before taking steps in the Netherlands on this second part, the vital sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Van Rooijen, you must not dwell on the Minister when the sitting is open. That is strictly forbidden, let me put it this way. There must be a separation between government and chamber. When the meeting is open, no one can stand there. This is what I'm saying for the second time. I call Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. When I reported to the shareholders' meeting with our one share Akzo-Nobel, I really felt like an activist shareholder. I felt like a shareholder who does not accept or subscribes to the greed of short-term investors, but a shareholder who wants to stand up for the long-term interests of a healthy company. The locusts of hedge fund Elliott also call themselves activist shareholders. That is very confusing, because that is a very different type of activism than what we are used to in the SP. They aim to fill their pockets as quickly as possible, while we want to fight for workers' rights and for the future of a beautiful and healthy business. You understand, that was a very pleasant afternoon at Akzo-Nobel. Since the crisis, we have seen the shareholder's power grow rapidly again. Under this pressure, AEX companies intend to purchase more than EUR 32 billion of their own shares. Unilever puts himself in debt and feels obliged to sell parts. Akzo-Nobel wants to squeeze EUR 1.6 billion from its own company this year to please its shareholders. A hostile takeover was the danger in this situation, but the conclusion is that even without takeover the shareholders will be grabbed. In this case, by ensuring that sufficient profits can be distributed instead of investing in the long term. Traditionally, in the Netherlands, the principle is that the board of directors and supervisory boards serve the interests of the company and the company. It concerns the future of the company, the people who work there, the suppliers and the customers in the environment in which it operates. Over the past decades, the power of shareholders has grown ever more. The Minister's proposal to introduce a period of reflection of one year in the case of takeovers is therefore, in our view, a good but cautious first step in reducing that power again. Can the Minister make it clear what he thinks should happen in that year in the event of a takeover? Which companies will benefit from this reflection period? Does he think it is conceivable that we should introduce a period of reflection for all major takeovers taking place? A large part, about two thirds of all acquisitions, does not end well in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	I hear Mr Hijink asking the Minister what he thinks should be done in that year's reflection period. Does that mean that he thinks it should not be voluntary, but that companies should be asked to do something about it during that reflection period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think that's a good idea. I do not think that we should wait quietly until it blows over, but we should use that year's reflection period to, for example, get in touch with employees and see how they look at the takeover, and to talk to suppliers, customers and other stakeholders to see whether or not this acquisition is a good idea. It does not seem to me to be something that should be done without obligation, but what we should, above all, agree on. Many other proposals have been made in recent months to better protect companies from unwanted takeovers. Can the Minister indicate what possibilities he sees to give the listed companies whose protection is ending legal possibilities to create new protection? How do we deal with the consequences for society? Wouldn't it be a good idea in the year to have a test carried out on the societal impact that an acquisition has? Why should government and society allow a sustainable and social company to be taken over by another company that ignores social rights and that does not have to comply with sustainability goals? If we want to safeguard the long-term interests of companies, we need to correct what has bent over the past 30 years. Then employees need to be given more say about the company's long-term policy and the supervision of the board. It is precisely employees who have a heart for the business and also for the long-term interest of the company. Does the Minister agree with the SP that the balance between labour and capital within our companies should be restored because it has been lost? Does he agree with us that profits have grown disproportionately at the expense of wages? Is he then prepared to investigate how the introduction of more control for employees as a counterweight to the shareholders' meeting can put an end to this distortion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	It is almost touching how the SP stands up for the multinationals and the well-paid CEOs of the companies. My question is about something else, namely the workers. You say I'm for a year's reflection. You also say you're looking at the employees. The workers will be in uncertainty about what is going to happen to the company for a year later because of this period of reflection. Do you think that is a desirable development?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	I would just like to point out that I am not standing here to defend the interests of the pocket-filling Netherlands. I represent the interests of a good and healthy company and above all the interests of the people who work there. The VVD should also care more about that. There's that uncertainty now. Let us use that year, just as Mr Paternotte just said, to put an end to that uncertainty. Let us consider what is in the interests of a company, how much the consequences of a takeover are and whether it is actually a good idea. I think it is very important for workers to be able to express their views on this. Now that is not the case. Now they're facing an offer on the company they're not waiting for. It seems to me right that we should use that year to involve employees in the future of their company, which is not happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	The Takeover Directive now ensures that there is a bid within 12 weeks. Then people have certainty about what's going to happen to their business. This period of reflection extends the period for one year. How do you think employees will feel in that year when they don't know what's happening? They don't know if they're being taken over, they don't know if the company stays in the same hands, and they don't know if they have eyes on a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think that a lot of workers would prefer to see proper thought given to what is in the interests of the company and their own work rather than a decision being taken as a result of them losing their jobs, the company falling apart and we can no longer talk about a healthy takeover at all. I think care is far more important than the speed proposed by Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	My question is also about the uncertainty among employees. I'm assuming the SP stands for the employees. Why are you not in favour of a proposal according to which decision can be taken earlier than after a year if the workers agree to the plan? Why don't you let go of that one-year criterion in order to take the employee criterion into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	There are best situations in which both employees and the board of directors indicate that it can all be faster and faster. It doesn't necessarily take me a year. If a company's stakeholders indicate that they need more time to make a careful assessment, then we should not, as is happening now, use steam and boiling water to take over coats. That, in fact, creates a lot more uncertainty for people about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	I haven't heard from the SP about takeovers by our companies. I read today on the NOS site that Philips wants to take over an American company for 1.9 billion. How's the SP on the other side? Do the same standards apply that we are now discussing internally? Or are you saying that in other countries our multinationals are allowed to do what they do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	We're not about rules and laws in America. We are not dealing with legislation in the United Kingdom. If other countries put their businesses in the window and throw them too gibberish, I can't do much about it. I wouldn't recommend it to them, but of course we don't have any influence on that. I do believe that every company should pursue sound policies and not go on the warpath and reckless takeovers at the expense of a company. What do they do abroad? I can find some of that, but there's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's very remarkable. I see Mrs Karabulut here every week asking the Minister to intervene in another country on matters that are going on there. Now saying "I'm not about laws in other countries," is a little hypocritical, a little double, I think. I think we can appeal to our business community: if you think we should protect ourselves from takeover in the Netherlands, we believe that companies that want to take over something elsewhere must comply with the same laws as here and the employees must comply with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think you can say a lot about the SP, but not that we are in favour of aggressive intervention policies in other countries. We do not need to be blamed for this. But I know what you mean by your question. I believe that every company should make sensible decisions, even if it does takeovers abroad. If that means harming the long-term interests of the company, the works council can of course interfere with it and find out all about it. But if countries do not take responsibility themselves and protect their businesses at the times when that is necessary, there is little to do about it. I would also like to say that not every takeover is bad, and that is true both here and abroad. It's about care. So it must not go as we saw with Akzo and Unilever, namely that under pressure from shareholders stupid policies are being rushed through just because a small group of people want to fill their pockets quickly. We are very opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte. This is gonna be his maiden speech, although he's been here a lot for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. Nice to meet you. My name is Jan. I'm Bas Paternotte's cousin. I look forward very much to working with all my colleagues, including Mr Öztürk. We are talking today about the protection of Dutch listed companies. If there's anything Dutch, it's the smell of coffee in the morning. I can remember that smell at any time, because I grew up in a house in Maarssen that was full of Douwe Egbert coffee cans. My father worked there for 30 years; first to make the factory halls ergonomic, with less noise and more light, so that the burning, grinding and packaging of the coffee beans became much safer; later he worked on the integration of Douwe Egberts into the American company Sara Lee, the company that bought our coffee burner from Joure in the late 1970s. So, made in Joure, managed in Chicago. This takeover finally got the Americans in touch with really good coffee, instead of the ditch water they drank until then. Some acquisitions therefore have a function. I now live in Amsterdam, the city where the world's first stock exchange is based on the passion for money making. But it is also a city that is so progressive that we have allowed a wild campsite for months before the entrance of that stock exchange, because we thought it was a demonstration, and one against the excesses of capitalism. For six months, the stockbroker walked into the AEX every day by the anarchist. Unfortunately for both, the municipality of Amsterdam had drawn a line somewhere: GroenLinks came up with the plan to install showers with heated rainwater on the square for the protesters, but that proposal was not accepted. It is in that capital of the country, which I love, where freedom to undertake and freedom to have an opinion on everything can both go far. For that freedom, I want to work hard as a Member of Parliament. Also in today's discussion you see both sides: on the one hand, shareholders, on the other hand, social interests. For example, the climate does not have a stock package. Employees sometimes do, but often they don't. And innovation is necessary for the Netherlands to continue to grow, but the innovation budget is often a short-term cost for companies. In the Lower House there are also parties that stand for one side, those of the shareholder, and other parties that fully choose the other side. The truth, as is almost always the case, lies in the political centre. We are also looking at situations around takeovers: freedom where that can be done, protection where it really needs to be done. All the stars are now good for the Americans: a high dollar, a low interest rate, a Wall Streetrally. That's why NXP is bought, which is why they're at Unilever's door, which is why they're banging on Akzo's door and maybe later on Philips' door. I commend the Minister for getting involved in the discussion and for coming forward with proposals quickly. We do not yet agree with the Minister on implementation alone. This is primarily due to the reflection period and the preferred option. What happens with this period of reflection, the Minister wants to leave it entirely to the companies themselves. Sitting on the couch can therefore also be done; there are no guarantees for making good use of that reflection period. That's why I have a few questions. Why does the Minister opt for this total non-committalism? How do we prevent the reflection period from being grossly abused? This is the case, for example, when a company takes a poison pill, and instead of building a long-term vision, it opts for the short term. Why 365 days and not shorter, for example? Australia also has a model with a year's reflection period. Can the Minister tell us what the experiences are like there? As far as D66 is concerned, there must be a clear objective for the reflection period. The importance of all stakeholders must be taken into account and the process must be consistent with long-term value creation. As far as we are concerned, therefore, a board must really do something about this. A company that does bad work should not be able to muddle under the umbrella of reflection. At this point, I am considering a motion. I have a few more questions. If a reflection period is chosen, most listed companies still have preferred shares or priority shares in all foundations. The Minister writes in his letter that some companies do not have this option, and that it is precisely for this reason that time is needed to create a level playing field. If we want a level playing field, then isn't the opposite, namely that with that period of reflection all the protection structures, which now produce a lot of work for lawyers in particular, have actually become redundant? Or does the Minister think that after a year of reflection such a foundation can block a takeover even further? The Minister wants to consult institutional investors. I would like to hear exactly what role he sees for institutional investors. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to explain that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has exchanged confidential messages with AkzoNobel. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you for your lovely maiden speech, too. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that colleagues can congratulate you after I have done so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. The harmful side of globalisation affects not only many citizens but also more and more businesses. Especially when large listed Dutch multinationals are in danger of being taken over, this generates a lot of excitement, uncertainty and social unrest. However, takeovers are a very common phenomenon, especially in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. Recently the Financieele Dagblad published another piece under the heading "Silvolde weeps and Leiden laughs." In Silvolde, coincidentally my hometown, 5,000 people live and for about 50 years the advanced gas meter factory Instromet offered work to about 125 people. After a foreign takeover, the company was resold four times, including to a so-called venture investor, but was therefore completely eroded and has now finally closed the doors. Companies like Instromet are on their own and cannot count on the political support of The Hague. Of course GroenLinks is also pleased that a hostile takeover of AkzoNobel has been averted by PPG. However, we are concerned about the sudden change in strategy that the board has put in place under PPG's takeover pressure. We also have these concerns about the sudden intervention in Unilever's strategy when Kraft Heinz was raving at the gates there. GroenLinks stands for a Rhineland-Palatinate approach to enterprise and believes that the Netherlands and the Union as a whole should arm themselves against the Anglo-Saxon model that has too much fixation on short-term profit maximization. In addition to protecting vital sectors, we attach great importance to a longer-term approach that actively promotes the internalisation of corporate social responsibility and sustainability. We have an eye for all stakeholders, and that is what we demand from drivers. Of course, shareholders are a very important stakeholder and their control should not be unnecessarily restricted. Three of the four options put forward by the Minister to strengthen protection against hostile takeovers are hardly controversial. There is support for a significantly higher standard rate, for simplifying the issuance of preferred shares unless two thirds of shareholders oppose it, and for a minimum period of reflection. In the latter case, it would be good to strengthen the advisory role of works councils. Much more controversial is the legal reflection period up to a year. Shareholders and institutional investors fear that too many lazy or weak directors are being held over and that, on balance, it will give them even less information which will drive them more into the hands of the bidder. In particular, my group is concerned that drivers are making hasty strategy changes. More rest and reflection can help but should not be a free pass to rest on your laurels. According to the Minister, which forms of accountability should take place in that year and how does he himself judge the criticism of investors, united in, for example, the VEB and Eumedion? Does the Minister not think it is logical that accepting requests for more protection should also mean that directors actually opt for sustainable and socially responsible business and that this includes a remuneration policy that is modest in relation to Anglo-Saxon remuneration packages? In exchange for the appeal that a board can make to the new legal reflection period of up to one year to be introduced, is it not reasonable to ensure that their vision of sustainable and socially responsible business is included in the statutes so that it is also discussed seriously with shareholders and other stakeholders and settled in long-term goals? Would he also consider whether this condition could not be included in the legislative proposal in the elaboration of his own preferred option? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	I would like to know from Mr Van der Lee whether he thinks that protection structures and the reflection period should only apply to companies that have fulfilled those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think that would be the best way, because it guarantees that companies have thought, with their shareholders and other stakeholders, about the long-term strategy and about what it means to be responsible and sustainable. Then that clarity is there for everyone. That clarity is important, because it also has an important motive, an argument for companies that are now asking for protection. They themselves stress that they are undertaking in a different way, that they have an eye for the longer term and that this justifies more protection. An important condition in creating this period of reflection should be that companies record it. In doing so, they have complete freedom in how they complete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	Okay, but what if a company decides not to include these things in the statutes? What happens when a company says: we do want to enjoy that protection, but we have not included it in the statutes or we cannot go so far as to include it in the statutes? Doesn't GroenLinks think that a company should have a year's thought-out period for a hostile takeover or a takeover at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	That's what I think. If you opt for another strategy that follows the Anglo-Saxon model much more, where you are not willing to commit yourself to long-term goals, to how you want to be sustainable and responsible, then as far as I am concerned, you also have no right to the protection that makes sense in that other way of entrepreneurship, but not if you are pursuing a short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	I agree with the latter. Let me point out that we agree on the goal. I would like all companies to undertake in this way, i.e. in a sustainable and long-term way. I can only imagine, for example, that in a few months' time there will be a situation in which a company that does not meet your conditions will be put at risk by a foreign bidder. Are you saying this company could fall apart? Maybe that's a little too flat. You're saying this company doesn't have to be protected? Or do you say, "We can think of something to do with that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	We know with each other that a hostile takeover is very rare. We are talking here about forms of protection which will mainly have a preventive effect. These will prevent parties from launching hostile takeovers because they know that companies can use protection measures. So I don't see the situation that you're setting out. I think that if we, as legislators, are to offer protection, we should ask for something in return. We have a view on what we expect from drivers, namely that they undertake socially responsible and sustainable business. Let them record that in and for their company. Then they have the right to the protection that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	You were in the process of rounding up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	I was just finishing up. I would still like to hear whether the Minister would consider it of added value if external review committees were to assess takeovers. Precisely because on average 75% of mergers fail, critical external eyes could have added value. Finally, my group believes that pension funds and companies themselves should invest more in the Netherlands and, for example, in energy transition, not as a defensive strategy to protect companies from takeovers but as an offensive way of making our economy more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	I have one more question to clarify. Is Mr Van der Lee talking about every takeover in the Netherlands? So he's not talking about a test by the government in case of national interest, but just about a test with each acquisition of a Dutch company?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yes, I do like the idea of Professor Schenk, who rightly and for many years has pointed out that acquisitions in three quarters of cases simply fail. What does that mean? This means a greater loss of added value, both for the bidding company and for the country in which the acquired business was located. It is good if we look more critically at the question of whether this is a good idea. Especially if we introduce a one-year period of protection, we can really see whether it is wise to take a particular takeover. And then we can have some external eyes look at that too. I am referring here, by the way, to listed companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	Just listed on the stock market? Of course, there are also large family businesses. For that, you make that difference in the first place. I agree with Mr Van der Lee that there are takeovers and mergers that are simply not successful. Then he thinks that a third could have a better judgment on that than the drivers on both sides of the business? Then it's going to be some kind of state establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	Well, I wouldn't argue for a state establishment. With these kind of essential strategic choices, it is very good to have third parties advise you. I can very well imagine that in the year you will be carrying out such a review. Of course, you can discuss the consequences of such a committee saying: I do not think it is such a good idea. I would not argue in favour of a role for the State in this, so we as a State will judge whether or not this is a good idea. However, I think it is important that the companies themselves take a critical look at whether it is a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	I'm very curious to know how you intend to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. I hear GroenLinks keeping a precious story about protecting multinationals. That's refreshing, too. We have a lot of discussions with each other about the tax location climate, including our Dutch companies. GroenLinks is always in favour of undressing that as much as possible. I have one specific question. We've talked about public country-by-country reporting on a regular basis. This confesses to presenting more figures and more information about the company. If it turns out that it makes hostile corporate takeovers easier, are you prepared to reconsider your position on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	Honestly, I don't see the connection you're making. In addition, looking at the election programme, the VVD has much to learn about the extent to which CEOs are often able to account for climate change and move towards a sustainable way of operating. Of course, it is very important that companies are fiscally transparent about where they make some money and where they should pay profits. Information about this is crucial. I don't think that's gonna make takeovers easier. So I don't see that link. Nor do I see any need to change my position in that regard. Also from the perspective of the VVD, which is always engaged in creating as much added value as possible, we must carefully ensure merger and acquisition decisions in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	In my view, hostile corporate takeovers often fail because they do not have an understanding of the figures. Of course, they will get more. I would like to ask one more supplementary question. I think Unilever and AkzoNobel have been praised for the corporate social responsibility they are doing. Unilever has announced his intention to return to one headquarters. The choice has been made on the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom does not levy a dividend tax. Saves the company a lot of money. Are you prepared to make such adjustments in order to keep the multinationals you value in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	I think this is a good example of how the VVD looks at the investment climate: launching new policies on the basis of incidents. I think it is very important that we do this in an internationally well-harmonised way, particularly in the area of taxation of profits. All these differences only call for more abuse and avoidance of tax. I wouldn't change policy on the basis of an incident. Unilever is a very valued company. I see, however, that under pressure from a takeover, it has pursued a strategic change of course that I would have preferred not to have seen. I hope it comes to its senses and makes sensible choices for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	We are, of course, holding this debate on the occasion of possible hostile takeovers. Do I understand that GroenLinks wants to go so far that you say for all listed companies: even with the most friendly takeover, if two companies say that they want to continue together, should a substantive test be carried out by the government on whether that is socially desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	No, then you misunderstand me. I recommend this idea to listed companies: in that year, if you need that reflection period, take the time to have an external committee look at the takeover. Make sure that it is critically analysed whether it is really sensible, purely from the fact that three quarters of mergers and acquisitions fail in practice. You don't want that. I do not want the government to impose this obligation, nor do I see it as a condition of that legal period of reflection. The only condition I would like to make in this area is that they make a statement in the statutes about their vision of socially and responsibly sustainable business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	I understand that your idea is basically to think along with the companies, as GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	Yes. You know GroenLinks as a very constructive party, don't you? We think along with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk, who speaks on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. Today, colleagues Van den Berg and Jan Paternotte made their maiden speech. They have included their personal experiences in the discussion, when it comes to corporate takeovers. Thank you for that and welcome to us, I would say as an experienced Member of Parliament. It is customary for an experienced MP to say something about the maiden speeches. That's what I said to get that part of my minutes taken off by the chairman. I'm assuming that's what's gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. I will also include my personal experience with corporate takeovers in the debate. More than twenty years ago, the foundation of my new building house was laid, but the foundation of my income security was destroyed. What was going on? My first house was just under construction. An American multinational bought up the company where I was employed and together with 200 colleagues I was fired immediately. The security of our fixed contract evaporated from one day to the next. That day I and my colleagues will never forget. I know more than anyone what such a takeover does to people and families. DENK is for international trade and for a healthy economy. This is necessary for our development and innovation. This does not and should not be at the expense of hardworking Dutch people. That is why we believe that there should be protection, especially for the employees, for the people behind the company, because for the staff, corporate takeovers have a huge impact. We have to help them. AkzoNobel's headquarters would be moved elsewhere. The jobs of 1,700 men and women would be at risk. These scenes are not in our best interest. Also weighs for our environment and fair product prices for Dutch consumers. These economic and social interests must not be affected by a foreign takeover. Minister Kamp wants a legal period of one year to better protect companies from such a foreign takeover attempt. Is that a good idea? We at DENK don't think so. A statutory reflection period of a year may be nice for top drivers, but how does this give the employees extra security? I think this gives a lot of employees a lot of uncertainty. For a whole year, not knowing what's gonna happen to you is horrible for people. In addition, the view of a successful outcome is still not reached. At the same time, the proposal does not in any way cover concerns about our environment and the prices of our products. That's merely a postponement of execution. The International Corporate Governance Network, a global association of institutional investors in which Dutch pension funds and insurers are affiliated, also asks the Minister for an alternative in a letter. They also believe that this is not the solution. We need to look for a better solution for several reasons. A legal reflection period does not give any protection against job losses in employees. DENK therefore believes that in all cases a works council should be able to make firm agreements on security for employees in foreign acquisitions of our companies. The interests of the staff must be at the heart of the matter. We find the plan proposed by the professors Mr Schoenmaker and Mr Groot very interesting: introducing a so-called "social test" through company law. Acquisitions should only take place if they do not harm society. Couldn't this be a better solution? Environmental damage and other damages that may be involved in the takeover can be considered. What does the Minister think of this alternative proposal? Finally. Big companies want to buy, but not be bought. That's kind of interesting. I saw today that Philips buys a company in America for 1.9 billion. At the same time, we are debating the fact that other companies are not allowed to buy our companies. Isn't that a little hypocritical? If we believe that other countries are not allowed to buy companies in the Netherlands, how do we deal with our own multinationals? We need to get rid of this hypocrisy. If we don't want something ourselves, we shouldn't want to do it to others. My group calls for tough agreements, for the protection of our Dutch staff and for responsible entrepreneurship abroad without double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Chairman. We are rightly extremely proud of our companies. In order to preserve and flourish these companies for our country, the VVD has been working for a good location and investment environment for many years. A special combination of top businessmen and politicians now wants to protect our companies extra. Of course, our companies deserve protection, but they already have it through preferential protection shares, priority shares, certificates of shares or a trusted controlling shareholder. Only a few listed companies do not have such protection. But there's also more. The corporate governance code contains a response time of 180 days or six months. And then there's the Enterprise Room where a company can go. So why additional protective measures? Can the Minister indicate when the last enemy takeover was in the Netherlands? For what problem is this really a solution and is the cure not just worse than the ailment? The most important form of protection is a healthy and convincing business strategy anyway. Protection measures must never replace them. Additional protection can encourage ease, and not so much protect the company as protect the board of directors. Additional protection measures are also expected to be at the expense of our location and investment environment. The Financial Times even reported on the resistance of long-term investors. My group has also received many letters about this. Furthermore, pension funds do not like the measures. It's not good for the members' pension. What does the Minister consider these reactions to be? Surely we need these investments in the Netherlands, as well as the return for the participants in the pension funds? In addition, it also leads to uncertainty among employees. That is why we have the following questions. Has an impact assessment been made of the measure? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would like to ask a question about Mrs De Vries' analysis. Mrs De Vries says that just having a healthy company is the best protection against hostile takeovers. Is that right? Is it not true that Dutch companies are such an easy prey because they are so healthy and so well funded, because the dollar is so favourable to the euro, because interest rates are low and some of these factors still exist? Isn't that the reason that this pressure is increasing now rather than that it would be unhealthy companies that are actually screwing up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think I said: a healthy and convincing business strategy. I think you should also look at the consequences. There are already protection measures. Mr Nijboer is now pretending that these companies are completely unprotected and that nothing is possible in the Netherlands. Those protective measures are simply possible. There are really a number of serious questions on the table about the consequences of this measure. I am interested in this, and I understand that some are not interested in it, but it is a lot of jobs in the Netherlands that can be affected by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	I didn't do anything. I was just asking about the analysis, and I don't think it's right. I do think Mrs De Vries takes a naive attitude. The United States has already built up additional protection structures in 2008. Germany did so in 2013 and France did so in 2014. In the Netherlands we now have a start of a discussion to do the same. How then does Mrs De Vries see the Netherlands taking the lead in this protection and that it is all well arranged? That is my second factual question. Where does it come from, compared to all these other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr Nijboer pretends that we live in some no-man's-land where all these companies are at the mercy of everything, but that is not the case. He saw for himself how AkzoNobel was doing. That case went to the Entrepreneurship Room and was referred back. Unilever has also successfully turned down an acquisition so far. Mr Nijboer pretends that nothing has been regulated in this country that would prevent companies from protecting themselves and that we should start from scratch. It is actually a question of extending the take-over period from six months to one year. But is that necessary? Don't you make those drivers very lazy? Can't they just do that in half the year that's been going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	Finally, Mr Nijboer. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	If there's that possibility, I'd be happy to take it, Mr. Chairman. There is also a need to distinguish and promote short-term and long-term shareholdership. There is also a need for Europe to join forces if China or America are to take action; this is called reciprocity. I am curious whether Mrs De Vries, who is now making the debate 'it is a six-month extension and the directors are becoming lazy', wants to look at it more seriously, in the interests of the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr President, can we have it in three these days?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	If you don't interrupt too often, it's okay. So far, it's been handled in an economical manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	There is more to it than just the extension to a year, because it is also about the investment of pension funds in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	Well, maybe you should listen to my story, because there are two more points in that regard. I'm just looking at the long term. I am looking at the long term for companies, pension funds and employees. In the end, it's about the jobs. We are always hugely committed to the good investment and location climate. That's exactly what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'd like to share two things. You say: a good strategy. That's right. That's very important. A good stock exchange price is generally one element of that. Now the Dutch companies have invested in a good relationship between equity and debt. That's what they've been growing over the years. Now, with the extremely low interest rates, it is just possible to get enough debt with the own funds of the companies that are to be taken over, so that the company can empty out. Second, you're referring to America. Yesterday, an article in The New York Times said that there are far more protection options in America than in the Netherlands and often in Europe in total. You say that there are already so many protection measures. Eventually, the road to the Enterprise Room is the only thing companies can do right now if they are already listed on the stock market. If a company hasn't arranged it for the rest and is now listed, it's about impossible to raise a new protective wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	I do not think Mrs Van den Berg has listened very carefully to my story, because I have also argued that many of these listed companies already have such a protective structure. So we're talking about a very small share. I am also curious to hear what I have just asked the Minister about how often hostile corporate takeovers occur. We do have the Entrepreneurship Room, plus the Corporate Governance Code. That is already a build-up of measures. Then the question is whether you think there should be additional measures on top, when you don't even know what the consequences will be for your investment and location climate. This is crucial for the preservation of jobs and for our companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	The CDA has also only asked if the Minister would like to develop and explore all these possibilities. Then we can always decide what we should or shouldn't do after that. But the current possibilities are actually nil for companies that have not now regulated a protective barrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	I'll take a look at the past. How many of these companies already have a protection structure at the moment? What additional possibilities do they have at the moment? And how often are hostile corporate takeovers currently occurring? I do not think you can indicate the consequences of all these measures. We would like an impact assessment of that. I've just asked the Minister about that. We think that is important. There are really a number of serious questions on the table about the consequences of these measures. I don't want to close my eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	I understand that we are actually in agreement when you say that you also want the Minister to figure out all these options and see what the effects can be, and then decide what we can or cannot do with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	You shouldn't just take my last story. You should also take my first story, which is my question as to which problem this is a solution for and whether the solution is not worse than the ailment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	If I listen carefully to Mrs De Vries, the answer lies in the discipline of the market when it comes to these threatening takeovers. I wonder: shouldn't there be a fair playing field on the market? Should we not have the same level of protection as other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	Partly is the discipline of the market, and a good, convincing business strategy. I did not say that there are no other measures. There are. You say it's just the discipline of the market. There are protective measures. I will come to the level playing field in a moment and also to the vital sectors of national security. Maybe at this point you can wait for my story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	That's good, I'll wait and see. However, I would like to touch on the other concern that you seem to have, namely that you fear mainly lazy drivers and that you want activist directors instead of activist shareholders. Do you therefore agree with me that it would be good if the directors also laid down their long-term vision of corporate social responsibility and sustainability in their own statutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	I think that's what companies are about, and I'm not for activist directors. No, I didn't say that at all. I am in favour of good directors who think about the future of the company, their position and the threats to the company, who act on it and who have those scenarios ready to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	Is it not precisely this type of driver who has come up with proposals to strengthen protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	Yeah, I get that, because then it's gonna be really easy to say: we're gonna wait another year. But they already have a lot of instruments in their hands. The most important tool is really the strategy of the company. That needs to be looked at, as well as the scenarios, the variants and the environment: what is happening there, what is going on there and what influence does that have on the company?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mrs De Vries said that pension funds should invest more in companies. In fact, the law and the European directive do not allow this because only the interests of the participants apply. But can it also say what the interest of the participants would be if these pension funds were to do more? It's about maximum efficiency. Mrs De Vries has been able to see from the responses of the pension sector that they only have to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	Maybe I've been unclear. It's nice to fix that for a while. I am not in favour of forcing pension funds to invest in companies. You just have to look at the pension participants. The pension funds simply need to achieve the best possible return for those who receive or are going to receive a pension. It's a good thing I can get that misunderstanding out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	Thank you for the clarification. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	I understand where Mrs De Vries comes from. She is sceptical about government intervention in the market. Then it is very logical that she says: I do not feel that much for extra protection. That's the same position as the minister's position, but he's looked at what's happening in the world and let it convince him. So my question is: do you have to automatically find the same thing on Wednesdays as on Mondays when everything happens on Tuesdays that gives reason to change your mind? In the last six months, Unilever has been offered an activist shareholder and an American company at Akzo's door. Now there is an activist shareholder building an interest with Philips and there is talk of a possible bid on Ahold. These are four large Dutch companies that are all very interested in activist shareholders and American companies. Is that a total coincidence according to Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	Then I would like to ask which one of them was successful. But I agree with Mr Paternotte that you should always look at what is happening in the world, what is happening around you and how you may have to change your policy on it. I will come to the vital sectors and to the level playing field. On these points you have to act in a targeted way, but such a generic measure on top of all the protection measures we already have is, in our view, not the right solution, even given the consequences that this could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mrs De Vries is sailing around my question, because Ahold is a supermarket and Unilever makes peanut butter. As far as I am concerned, these are not vital companies, but they are important companies. Does Mrs De Vries recognise that there is an enormous amount of interest from America, especially for companies in the Dutch economy and at the Dutch stock exchange, and that these Dutch companies could therefore have a different position than companies in other European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	Yes, but protection measures are possible. My question to Mr Paternotte would then be: which of these hostile takeovers has succeeded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	I think it has already been said that there has not been a successful takeover in the last six months. That is not possible either, because Mrs De Vries herself mentioned a deadline for a takeover process that is longer than six months. However, these companies have divested divisions in direct response to the activities of those activist shareholders or the takeover bid. My final question is: has the Minister been persuaded, is Mrs De Vries open to being persuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u80	I am not convinced of this measure, otherwise I would have indicated it here. We're looking at more things than just protection. A great deal of protection is already possible. If you analyse the problem, you should also consider how often it occurs and who does not have protection measures. I do not really understand why a party such as D66, which also has some liberal principles, does not also look at the impact on the investment and location environment in the Netherlands, and thus on jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u81	I am a little surprised that Mrs De Vries is always asking which takeover was successful. I have tried to indicate in my own term that the real danger of a lack of protection is the growing pressure of shareholders on the price of a company. Mr Paternotte was right to say that AkzoNobel is rejecting divisions and spending huge amounts of money on the shareholders. We see that, under pressure from shareholders, sustainable companies, at least companies that are known within their industry as relatively sustainable and good for employees, must opt for a course that is not ours, because Anglo-Saxon is aimed at the short term and at shareholders' profits. The VVD will have to look at that, won't they? Or is the VVD, as some say, becoming the crazy Henkie that puts our sustainable companies in the shop window?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u82	You give a very special picture of all the shareholders. At AkzoNobel we see Tweedy, Browne, who has been in that company for more than 25 years, without getting out because there was a lower rate than PPG. But Tweedy, Browne must have faith in the future corporate strategy. After all, a shareholder is not a philanthropic institution: at some point there has to be a return. The same applies to pension funds that invest in these companies. There really doesn't have to be a return within a year, but they have to be confident that the company will deliver returns in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u83	That's where you say it: return. But return for who? The VVD's proposal only looks at the return for the selected club of shareholders that is looking for short-term profits. That is what you do if you choose not to support your own minister in his proposal. That surprises me, when I even hear from CDA and D66 that at least something must be done to protect our companies from activist shareholders who are indeed raving at the gates of our companies and who can decide at any time to take over or, if it does not come to that, to force companies to throw their sustainability targets overboard, throw their employment targets overboard and opt for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u84	This is a long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u85	But it's also an important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u86	An interruption is supposed to be really short. I call Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u87	Once again, you limit the problem to the activist shareholder. I'd say that's all there is to it. But I am also looking at longer-term investments, at pension funds and insurers in companies for the longer term. They want a good return in the longer term. You can't blame them for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u88	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u89	Then I would like to draw attention to all the studies that show that 65% to 85% of the acquisitions ultimately do not yield any return for the shareholder, nor do they generate any additional financial gain. For whom does it yield a return? For that small, select group of shareholders that is looking for a takeover and wants to make a lot of money in the short term. That is why I do not understand why the VVD is almost the only one in this Chamber at the time of the crisis. You're acting like we're still alive in the nineties. You're doing last century's politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u90	I think this is a bit of a caricature of my story, which I haven't quite kept. I have already indicated that we are proposing a number of targeted measures to improve the level playing field and to look at vital infrastructure, particularly national security. You shouldn't blame me for not being willing to look at business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u92	The cabinet has indicated that it tends towards the measure of a year's reflection period. What exactly is that supposed to mean and what is it that depends on whether or not such a measure will be finally adopted? It is clear: the VVD is against the extra protection via a reflection period of one year. How should this measure be seen in relation to the takeover directive in force? Is the proposal not contrary to EU rules? How was that legally checked out? What exactly does the company have to do in that year? The Netherlands should not put itself at a disadvantage with this kind of generic protection measures. What we do need to do is to defend ourselves in a targeted way in terms of the infrastructure that is critical of national security. No one wants the Netherlands Armed Forces Integrated Network of KPN in Russian or Chinese hands, for example. You have to take care of that properly and precisely. The group of companies to which this applies must be kept small and provide certainty and clarity quickly. It is not about peanut butter or the paint, for example. After all, what are the government's plans for some analyses being carried out and what is the government's planning to implement this in measures? Then I come to the level playing field and to the level playing field. Our companies must be able to take over the British ICI and British Gas. Philips must also be able to take over a company in America. We think that's normal, and then you shouldn't squeal the other way around. However, what the VVD does not want is that state-supported companies or state-owned companies from China, for example, can easily take over companies here, while our companies in these countries do not have the same opportunities or opportunities. How does this work in the European Union? It must certainly not lead to protectionism, as the French method of Macron seems to be. But as far as we are concerned, it must lead to equal and fair opportunities for our companies here and in those other countries. What is the government's view of these options and how does that move forward within the European Union? Let us ensure a good investment and location climate. Let us do what is necessary to protect critical infrastructure in the interests of national security. Let's ensure a level playing field and a level playing field. But above all, let us not put our own businesses at a distance with excessively strong additional generic protection measures and ultimately weaken them. In the end, this is not good for the Dutch jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van den Berg of the CDA and Jan Paternotte of D66, the wise nephew of Bas Paternotte, our national Twitter King. That doesn't mean Bas Paternotte is insane or insane, but he is the wise nephew of Bas Paternotte. I can especially find myself in the maiden speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u94	I think Mr Paternotte, before you continue, would like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u95	A small correction, indeed. Thanks for welcoming me. Within our family, however, I am known as the wise cousin and not as the wise cousin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u96	Okay. But you know that PVV's are readers of the Donald Duck. It always talks about "the nephews." So it's Mercury, Quack and Quack; that's a bit of our level. I particularly agree with Mrs Van den Berg's maiden speech. It's also noticeable that she's from a KVP nest, and that's what I mean positively. I couldn't agree more. I look forward to working with both Members of Parliament. I also liked the words Mr Paternotte used: 'freedom where possible and protection where necessary'. That is really very nicely formulated and that is how we are in it. I have been in the Chamber for 11 years and we have tried it very often and tabled motion after motion on reflection and ensuring that we remain independent from abroad. Often it was also about affordability of services, and for example also about energy companies and security of supply, a primary need for life. After all, heat, energy, is a primary need for life. We have tried to buy back shares from the KLM, also a company of national interest. And while I am talking about national interest, how does the Minister view the definition of national interest? Which companies would I have liked to have had a list of these, because that saves me a motion that is really the crown jewels that we can't get out of, financial-economic and social-social? It is clear that these are the KLM, a company such as Schiphol, large private employers such as PostNL, which also has to do with letter secrets and the like. But can the Minister give me a list of companies of national interest? I'd like that very much. He may also have a clear definition, because there is still some uncertainty about that. Recently there have been bids on Unilever, AkzoNobel and PostNL. The cabinet regards takeovers by foreign companies as opportunities for the Dutch business community, but the minister also identifies the risks to the Dutch economy, society and national security. The Minister also identifies the positive aspects of the takeovers, including the strengthening of corporate governance, additional investment, synergies and economies of scale. Furthermore, the Minister notes in his response that a reduction in shareholder power seems necessary. That really makes me happy, especially as a former member of the De Wit Committee, who once investigated the banking crisis, the credit crisis. This showed that a great deal of misery was caused by the drive of shareholders. The cabinet presents four action points. Everyone's already talked about that. Given the time, on behalf of the PVV, I would just like to express my explicit support for one point, namely that the management of the company should be given more space and time to assess a takeover or a substantial modification of the strategy proposed by shareholders on securities for all stakeholders. I am grateful to the Minister for the 180-day increase to a year's legal reflection period. The PVV will therefore wholeheartedly support it. We have, of course, fought more often in the past against those unbridled and often hostile foreign takeovers, but we have also, where possible, opposed privatisations and the liberalisation of markets in an uneven playing field. I'm afraid I have to finish, but I said the most important thing. In the US, Germany and France, foreign hunters are already being made very difficult. We're still a little crazy here. I don't mean this Henkie from Borculo. We work in a completely unequal playing field, including within Europe. Our boards are not given sufficient protection against shareholder power and shareholder drive. Often large bags of money determine takeovers. How and when will the proposed protection legislation take shape? What is the Minister doing against hostile takeovers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr. Chairman. One wants to see money and preferably as soon as possible. Hedge funds put the place on stilts and walk away with the price. There's a storm coming, and there's a lot more coming. These are statements I didn't make myself. These are statements from what you might call the old boys network of the Dutch directors. They have great concerns and they shared them with the Chamber at a hearing requested by the PvdA. The combination of extremely low interest rates and money that is looking for a destination, the strong dollar, the poor protection of Dutch companies and at the same time extremely well-funded Dutch companies are the balance sheets of health and it is still fiscally attractive in the Netherlands to pump companies full of debt making Dutch companies a very easy prey. It is a little late, but it is good that the cabinet, even if it is outgoing, sends such a far-reaching letter, in which it says it wants to take protection measures in four areas. The PvdA Group supports all four of these directions. I welcome the fact that the cabinet has submitted this to the Chamber. But we have to make speed, because the next bid can already come. Akzo-Nobel may have been saved now, but he's going to repel some of it and, under the same circumstances, may become an easier prey than it was before. The same may apply to Unilever. As far as these two companies are concerned, we may find ourselves in calmer waters, but it can still go wrong. I would like to draw attention to three areas. First of all, the importance of employees and the control of employees. We have the Rhine model in the Netherlands. This means that you take not only the shareholders into account, but also the employees and society into account. The question is whether, in the case of mergers, and certainly in the case of takeovers, employees are sufficiently entitled, given sufficient information and sufficient control. The PvdA believes that this is not good enough now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Nijboer talks about the prey and the hunter. That's actually very activist language. Can he also imagine a situation in which a hostile takeover is sensible and justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u99	Actually, hardly. If they are takeovers that do not have consent, takeovers with opposition from employees, board members and supervisory boards in the Netherlands, we have a very responsible corporate board in the Netherlands, which almost always leads to misery. It can hardly lead to success. That is also evident from literature. Even in the case of voluntary takeovers, the majority of it goes wrong. If a takeover is hostile, it is a recipe for prolonged misery with procedures, Enterprise Chamber and directors who are only engaged in governance and misery. So no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr Nijboer is so pessimistic that he seems to say: in almost all cases we must prevent a hostile takeover at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u101	Enemy? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u102	Does that also apply to a company that performs badly in structural terms? Do you think it would be better for the company to muddle rather than be taken over, even if the management doesn't agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u103	It's in the "enemy." There's a lot of takeovers going on. In itself, that can be good. It can be beneficial, it can also be in agreement. I don't want any confusion in that year either. If a company merges or takes over and there is agreement, it can be done fine in three or four months. You really don't have to wait a year for that. However, if it's hostile, heads against each other, lawsuits over and over again, employees who oppose, works councils that take action, that rarely leads to a fruitful result. By law, banning hostile takeovers at all is not what I propose, but better protection to make takeovers more difficult, I am certainly in favour. This also leads economically to better outcomes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u104	Now the Minister has said that it would be preferable to introduce only that period of reflection. You say, however, that all four options are beautiful, just do them all; at the same time, side by side, on top of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u106	Do you not think that the Netherlands will then be completely closed with protection measures and that we will have more protection than any other country in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u107	The Minister put forward proposals in four areas in his letter. I'll be right there on the more investment by pension funds. That's the first proposal of the four. One year of protection is the second, reciprocity in Europe is the third. That's the four areas. We support all four of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u108	I don't think the list is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u109	There were some variations at that year; they can't all be four at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u110	That's clear. You're someone who's hoping for expensive drivers; you're known for that. Now you say that you want these people to have more time: instead of six months a year. Some time ago, the PvdA thought it should be six months. Why did you change your mind? Why wouldn't six months be enough compared to a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u111	Because it turns out that if you give time longer, it becomes less attractive for people who want quick money to rake the place in. I'm in favour of further measures, but I'll get right to that. What this has to do with expensive drivers is a mystery to me. Those hedge funds, those types that are now on the market, are all much better paid drivers than the Dutch who can indeed keep a little measure if they keep their own employees on the zero line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u112	I also believe that you are too hopeful to meet drivers who make too much money in business. I think this is an extra protection especially for them. I have one more question. You have left the workers in uncertainty for a year now. I wonder how you're gonna explain that to the employees of a company who don't know what's going on with their jobs all year round. How are you going to explain to them that they have to spend a year in uncertainty about who they're going to work with and whether they have a job at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u113	That's a bizarre reversal. If, as with Akzo Nobel, the works council stands squarely behind the board of directors and the supervisory board and says, "We don't want to do this" and if you support the or in that, then do you support the employees? It is not the case that workers are opposed to being better protected. They're asking for it! We spoke here with the FNV and the CNV sent us a letter. Support the letter from Minister Kamp, was the message. This is a turnaround, isn't it? I invite Mrs De Vries to convince employees of the VVD's view that everything in the Netherlands can only be thrown into the market and taken over. I do not believe that this is supported by workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u114	You are completely avoiding my question. My question is as follows. Those people get a year of uncertainty. There's been 180 days of response time now and there's a corporate governance code. That's pretty long. You want to extend that time from six months to a year and you also want to regulate it legally. That gives people six months longer uncertainty about their jobs. I believe that in that period, even in a period of six months, drivers are best placed to take action and come up with an alternative plan. Mr Nijboer does not seem to be convinced of this, but he does say that the workers are therefore longer in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u115	No, I'm in favour of hostile takeovers being turned down. Parties that intend to do so will no longer do so if it takes more time, if there are more procedures and if employees have more influence. Then there'll be more clarity. My second point concerns the investment of pension funds in the Netherlands. I often disagree with Mr De Boer, but during the hearing he made a glowing speech. The PvdA Group agrees, she has agreed for years. In fact, at the beginning of this cabinet period I called on this minister to hold a summit at the Catshuis, because there is an investment shortage. Talk to the pension funds, make them invest more. We have a lot of paper and intentions and I do not know what has already been received, but too little result. Frankly, I find the response of pension funds, including the Minister's letter, inadequate. In fact they say: we hold it off, we are not going to do it, do not interfere with our investments, but do they still have a responsibility to invest in the Dutch economy? They invest Dutch pension money. Of course, this has to be done against good conditions and returns, and this can be looked at very well, but I think that pension funds are too persistent here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u116	I propose that Mr Nijboer finish his speech. After that, there is an opportunity for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u117	The third point is the social test. I have already referred to America in an interruption; Anglo-Saxon, that is to say, the shareholders are in charge. The protection of companies there is pieces, much larger than in the Netherlands. In 2004, a law was introduced there, in 2013 in Germany and in 2014 in France, aimed at a social test on public interest. I ask the cabinet to draw up such a test, which looks at the employee's interest, the economic importance and the sustainability interest for the Netherlands, and then compare it with what these countries have. I think it is useful and will be useful to introduce this in the Netherlands, in addition to extending it, because that is indeed sometimes only a delay. I would like to say something nice about my colleagues who made a maiden speech. I start with Mrs van den Berg from the CDA, whom I could not hear from the very beginning, but she did not hear me either, so that fits well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mrs Van den Berg, you are being spoken to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u119	I end my speech with my compliments to your address. I could hear at the end that you're from the CDA. You missed the beginning of my compliments, but I missed the beginning of your maiden speech. I look forward to the good cooperation. I have already worked intensively with Mr Paternotte and I hope to continue this cooperation. He made a lovely maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u120	I do not hear Mr Nijboer say that pension funds are primarily there to make maximum returns in the interests of members and pensioners and to act exclusively in that interest. That's what it says in the law and in the directives. Why is he walking by there? He says that pension funds should play that role, even at the request of whom I know. He says he's been calling for that for years, and then he has to go to the Catshouse. Moreover, he also knows that the consequences of the Dutch rules are that the deficits he used are among the pensioners whose pension has not been indexed for ten years but has been reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u121	I believe that pension funds should also serve a social interest. Pension funds do indeed have a legal obligation to achieve such a well-being pension for their members. However, this prosperity is also generated in the Netherlands. So you can also see what you could do in the Netherlands. There are pension funds that do more and insurers do much more than pension funds. I think that they have a duty there, especially when the employer's foreman announces with such a great deal of bombs that they are going to do so. He sits in half of those boards and then the big pension funds say that they do not want to do so. I do not like that, they can also form part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr Nijboer recognizes that pension fund administrations are autonomous and do not have to listen to others. Of course, they play a social role. The pension funds have that obligation, but does Mr Nijboer recognise that this is only their job? Moreover, I would point out that pension funds invest 14% of their assets, which is 200 billion, in the Netherlands. Not only in stock exchange funds, but throughout the Netherlands. 14%, 200 billion!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thirty years ago, it was 100%, because at that time it was required by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u124	I know that the ABP as a state fund at the time actually had an investment obligation in Dutch government bonds. We knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u125	That's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u126	It's about the investment. But I agree in part with Mr Van Rooijen. Pension fund management must earn a return on their participants. But they also have other tasks, and they also have views about whether or not to invest in weapons, even if that is a lot of money. I believe that they can also play a role for Dutch employment and for Dutch society. I think they're doing too little right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u127	A comment along the lines of that. Pension funds are there to ensure that participants have a good pension later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u129	You're actually saying they should be obliged to invest in listed companies here. But are you still in favour of this if it would lead to a reduction in the return or increase in the risk, which means that these pensions will not be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u130	I think it's possible. As in sustainability, I think you can invest in it with a very good return. Except you have to want to. You don't have to hold it off. Of course, you have to introduce risk diversification and invest all over the world. But now the investment people are playing the tone, while a pension fund with such a high capacity out of so many mandatory savings of people also has the social task of helping the economy wherever it can. I am, indeed, of opinion, and for years. The cabinet shares that view. The pension funds have once supported this, but are now backing down. I don't think it's going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u131	In my view, this is a case of listed companies. So that's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u132	It is just Dutch companies, including SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u133	No, we're talking about corporate takeovers of listed companies. You say you should. You say you believe it's possible. What's the point of a pension participant if he gets cut back on his pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u134	A pension participant often works at a Dutch company. I am in favour of more investment in SMEs, and I think I had Mrs De Vries on my side once. After all, SMEs have had a lot of credit problems. Pension funds do something about that, but I think too little. This includes investments in Dutch energy networks, in windmills, in renewable energy, in networks, but also in Dutch companies. What's in it for them? You can then, if you're attacked and you're all in agreement, so if there's consensus, you can stand behind each other. If Ahold didn't bank with ABN at the time, it would have been taken over and in other hands. So this is what matters. We have too little eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u135	The Minister says he can respond immediately, but I propose a suspension of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u136	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u137	Madam President. Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Paternotte gave their maiden speech. I think it's great to be a Member of Parliament. It's great fun to do it, it's amazingly honorable and it's amazingly important work. Mrs van den Berg has already been present in committees and is now given the opportunity to do so in plenary. I congratulate her on this and wish her every success and pleasure in her work. Mr Paternotte has just made his maiden speech. I have great admiration for the fact that the D66 Group has kept him in check for so long. The expectations are high for me, too. I also wish him every success and great pleasure in the Chamber. Mr President, I apologise to Mr Van Rooijen. He came back from the chair, just wanted to go to his place, and then I spoke to him. As a result, you gave him a scrubber. That's all I'm responsible for. I therefore apologise to Mr Van Rooijen. Mr Nijboer indicated that remarkable things are happening in the economic world at the moment. There is a lot of money in circulation, because monetary funding was first in America and then in Europe on a very large scale. A number of internationally operating companies have a high profitability. For both reasons, a lot of liquidity has become available. The euro is low compared to the US dollar. As a result, you can see that in a short period of time a lot of things are about to happen that we think: do we want to let it go like this or do we want careful treatment? It started with Unilever; then I got really worried. Then you got Akzo. Then you got the message that an activist shareholder in America would be working or going with Philips. We also read that something could happen to Ahold. This has happened in a short time with the top of Dutch business and poses risks for Dutch society. The initiatives are often taken by activist shareholders, companies that have protected themselves very well. The company Elliott, for example, is based in the state of Delaware. There one has a triple protection structure, which means that one has completely shielded oneself and is engaged in countries where that is less so. The company PPG, which Akzo wants to take over, has to do not only with American rules, but also with state rules, in this case Pennsylvania, where that company is based. I can assure you that PPG would run into Pennsylvania legislation if Akzo were to take over. The situation in America and other countries is therefore different from that in the Netherlands. You can see that from America, North America and South America, a lot is coming to Dutch companies in one go. Mrs De Vries asks what has been done about all these possible takeovers. Nothing yet, but I don't know what's gonna happen. I know that a lot of work has been done to prevent undesirable developments, primarily by the boards of directors and supervisory boards of the companies, but I, the Ministry and others are also involved. Those who have insight into what is happening in the business world have the feeling that it is necessary to do something. Who has the best view of what is going on in the world and what is happening in the world? Those are also Dutch leaders of international companies. In recent months, I have made my own analysis that it is necessary to act as a government, to see what the current situation is like, how it should be more ideal and what you could do to improve the situation. Those who have over the years led Unilever, Ahold, Shell, Philips, TomTom, AkzoNobel and Heineken say that because of the situation they prefer, in addition to the current possibilities to manage takeovers, a period of reflection of one year is set. In this way we can ensure that what we consider important in our country gets the attention it deserves. There are two models in the world. There is the Anglo-Saxon model that looks at the interests of the shareholders. I think that is quite understandable. In addition, there is the Rhine model, which applies here in the Netherlands. The interests of shareholders are taken into account, of course, but there are several stakeholders. You are also dealing with employees, with suppliers, with customers, with the network in a country you are a part of, with the social responsibility you have as a company, and with long-term value creation. It may well be that something very interesting for Elliott in the short term, but that doesn't have to be exactly the same interest as for a company like AkzoNobel that doesn't want to make money quickly but that is aimed at making products in a sustainable way that is needed and earning money in the world. It is therefore very good that this Rhine model of ours looks not only at the interests of the shareholders but also at the interests of the other stakeholders and also at the long-term value creation. I think this is a valuable model. Given that model and the pressure that it creates in the world, it is necessary to consider the conditions that apply to takeovers and how we can improve those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u138	I can very well follow the Minister's speech so far. Interestingly, I found his remark that if AkzoNobel chose to take over PPG in a similar situation, it would run into the protection wall and that an investor like Elliott himself would not get into trouble quickly, because she is so well protected. Does the Minister say in the context of reciprocity that what we saw at AkzoNobel should not happen here again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u139	Anyway, I'm not assuming that everything that comes from America is okay. I have great appreciation for what comes from America, but I note that the entire maritime sector in America is shielded. A Dutch company in the maritime sector is not entering America. They have a structure in which takeovers must or can be submitted to a committee. If anyone objects to a takeover, they can refer it to that committee. In that committee there are figures with a political color who decide in a kind of black box without any transparency whether or not something could be done from the national interest of America. This is a construction which, although not so much formally, poses problems, but in reality, because of the lack of transparency and the risks you run as a result of the lack of transparency as an acquiring party, there is still a frightening effect. Given that summing up what is informal and formal in America, and given the current situation, I do not think it is surprising that we, the Netherlands, are asking the question: have we properly protected our interests or can we improve them from the point of view of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u140	If you choose reciprocity, which the Minister wants to work on, would that in future mean that what we saw at AkzoNobel, if it were up to him, will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u141	I think it is important that we stick to European rules first and foremost. This means that we must stick to what we have agreed on the protection of shareholders' rights. Furthermore, I believe that taking over companies and letting them take over is an economic process that should not necessarily have opposition from the government. However, the government must consider whether it is proceeding in a careful and responsible manner and whether there are certain interests that are not receiving sufficient attention in certain circumstances. Then the government should play a role in this. That's what we're working on right now. I think we're a country that likes to be invested in. We also like to invest in other countries. I would very much like to see, as far as imbalances are concerned, that we are aware of them and see how we can improve them. I'll come to reciprocity. At the moment there is a reciprocity problem in the world, particularly from China. Chinese companies are taking over companies in Europe. European companies cannot take over in China, except when it comes to peanuts. But when it comes to really important companies, the government's involvement in China is so big that you don't interfere. So we can take over from China in Europe, but not from Europe in China. In addition, due to the involvement of the Chinese government in the companies there, there is also a strategy to buy up knowledge in Europe by buying up companies. We will then lose that knowledge in Europe and they will have it in China. And the other way around, you can't. I think that is a worrying development. I believe that there should also be reciprocity monitoring on this point. That is why I appreciate the fact that Germany, France and Italy have asked the European Commission to pay attention to this in order to check it out. The European Council also asked the European Commission to do so. I support that from the Netherlands. I think it is very good that this is being looked at from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u142	I see Mr Hijink wants to interrupt again. The minister's just getting started. I understand the Minister's coming back to other questions. I would like to limit the number of interruptions, otherwise things will get completely out of hand. I want to do the interruptions in two, so a question and a follow-up question. In addition, everyone is allowed to make up to three interruptions. Mr Hijink, this is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u143	We cannot have this debate on such a large subject with just two interruptions to the Minister's entire speech. I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u144	Three interruptions are really the maximum I can offer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u145	Then this question is still part of my first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u146	What a businessman, Mr. Hijink. Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u147	I don't really understand the difference. The Minister himself states that takeovers in the US are very difficult. It would not have been possible for PPG to do that, because protection is a question of a committee of political figures, as he calls it. So what is the difference with China where there is enormous protection and there is also political influence to prevent takeovers? Then there's no difference, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u148	I am not going to compare China and the United States of America directly on this point. I do think that when we talk about reciprocity, we should not just look at China. Nor has it been said to the European Commission that it should only look at China. It has simply been said that there is a lot going on in the world about takeovers. Look at this reciprocity, guard that reciprocity, and deepen it. That is a sensible request that has been made to the Commission. I also support that request. I think it's fine that she's looking at America, Asia and other areas of the world as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u149	We were just talking about China. I have a specific question. Fox-IT has been in the news for the last few days. That was a Dutch company that was taken over by an English company a while ago. You may wonder whether the Netherlands should have allowed that, but that is another question. We'll get back to that later. Suppose Fox-IT is sold by the English owner to a Chinese company, even the government, or for example to Russia. I think that would block that committee in America right away. Then what does the Minister do? After all, Fox-IT has almost all cybersecurity in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u150	If an English company sells something to an American, Chinese or Russian company, I have no direct influence on that. We do have our own interests to protect in the Netherlands. Mr Van Rooijen says that Fox-IT is actually also a company that could have been regarded as an interest to be protected. Then it is also very wise for us to realize this, perhaps partly as a result of this sale, that we are now also trying to identify exactly what those interests are to be protected and that we are adopting our policy on how we would like to respond to them. I'll come back to those interests to protect later. Take-overs are positive in themselves. There have been takeovers over the years. That means that you can trigger additional investments, that there are synergies. This can also result in economies of scale in the long term. You can also get incentives that create an innovation in a company. They also put a healthy pressure on the market. Take-overs in themselves are fine. It is a question of ensuring that, in the Dutch situation, not everything is fixed on the interest of one of the parties, although it is an important party: the shareholder is not given sufficient attention and the rest is not given sufficient attention, also because there is a need for time. The importance of these shareholders is great, but the other interests are also great. I want all these interests to come into the picture. Mrs De Vries said that they already have six months of response time, and now they are turning it into a year. That's a misunderstanding. Based on corporate governance, a period of 180 days is now being discussed. However, that 180-day period will only apply if the general meeting of shareholders allows it, if it considers that this should be done. I propose, on behalf of the cabinet, that we investigate this further in the way in which I formulated it in the letter, not in the hands of the general meeting of shareholders and not in a code, but in the law. That means that that possibility is created in the law. When a company invokes that possibility, you stand strong. Of course, there may be a judicial review of the use of the legal option. You can always do that. However, it is a much firmer basis than if you manage it through a corporate governance code and you need the consent of the general meeting of shareholders. We must also realise that the situation has now arisen that 90% of the shares of the Dutch AEX companies are in foreign hands. That means that if you want to go through such a general meeting of shareholders at the moment, which is not easy, just as it is not easy to have a protection structure in force at the moment. The protection structures that exist have been in place a long time ago. At the moment, given the shifting ownership relationships, you don't actually see that this kind of new protection structures are still being introduced at large companies. This also makes it important, as a government, to see what could still be arranged in addition to what is already in place. We therefore consider it important that, if there is a takeover, the management of the target company, the company that should be taken over, can go through a careful process. Now you see that in a period of about ten weeks the matter has to be settled. You will see that the management of a company that is currently acting as a target company is under great pressure and you will see that the balanced representation of all stakeholders and the long-term value creation interest is affected. That is what we are opposed to. Some spokesmen have already mentioned that the cabinet states that four things could be done to improve the situation. Firstly, the period of reflection of up to one year, which we now prefer and which we are discussing with all those concerned. That's the first thing we could do. Secondly, adjust the bidding rules, whereby you will significantly increase the minimum compliance rate. In addition, you come into a situation where you can only find a solution, if it is legally feasible, for takeovers. However, there is more to it at the moment than just takeovers. You have activist parties that are engaged through takeovers but you also have activist parties that try to put pressure on the board of a company through the general meeting of shareholders. With that second possibility of increasing the attendance rate, you do something for takeovers, but nothing for activist shareholders who manifest themselves in the shareholders' meeting. That is the objection of that arrangement. The third possibility we have suggested is that you could make it easier to introduce a protection structure if a company threatens to be taken over against the meaning of the management of a company. This means that you do not need to have the majority of the general meeting of shareholders behind you, but that a third or a quarter is sufficient. That scheme has the object of objecting that it can only be used for a takeover and that it cannot be applied in the case of activist shareholders who manifest themselves in a general meeting. Moreover, there is already the mentioned objection that 90% is in foreign hands, so even if you go to a quarter or a third, it is still doubtful what effect this will have. Then there is a fourth possibility. The twelve-week period of reflection that exists at the beginning and which is laid down by law in the Financial Supervision Act may be extended, but we believe that this extension may last up to another 12 weeks and that in turn you will not have a solution for those activist shareholders who manifest themselves in the shareholders' meeting. In addition, there are three possibilities for conflicting with the European directives. The option we prefer, namely the introduction of a reflection period as discussed, is different. Europe has adopted directives designed to protect the interests of shareholders. If you are going to work with variant b, c, and d, as Mrs van den Berg mentioned, then it is difficult to avoid this contradiction with European directives, provided that the measures are not directly contrary to those European directives. That maximum period of one year should not be allowed until the takeover has taken place. There has then been a bid, which is held and enforced and the company is taken over. From that moment on, we will allow a period of one year to run. If you formulate this correctly, I believe that this is not contrary to the relevant European directives and is therefore a sustainable addition to the opportunities already available to make things work in good jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u151	The Minister discussed the variant in which the attendance rate is increased to 95 and the idea of doubling the reflection period in the Financial Supervision Act from 12 to 24 weeks. According to the Minister, both measures are not a solution for activist shareholders who manifest themselves at shareholders' meetings. But how big a problem is that? With AkzoNobel, the problem was not so much with the general meeting of shareholders. Shareholders gave the board no difficulty and the board was mostly welcomed. Eventually, such an activist shareholder must achieve a majority in order to get something done at the general meeting. What does the Minister then make of the fact that precisely this activism at the shareholders' meeting is a problem and not the threat of a takeover?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u152	A company has been regularly put under pressure by activist shareholders. Activist shareholders have the starting point that they buy shares from a company and then put pressure on that company to split up, clean up and sell parts, after which payments are made to the shareholders. This is how money is created for the shareholders. That's what these activist shareholders want to achieve, and a lot of companies have been put under pressure in that way. So that's something you can't do against with the variants b, c and d. It is something that has occurred regularly in several companies in recent years. Companies see that coming and try to deal with it well, be ahead of it and move in that direction. But at least they're gonna be under pressure. They're getting all fixated on the activist shareholders. The importance of long-term value creation and the importance of other stakeholders disappear in the background. That is why I think we should be aware of this situation and try to contribute to a solution that complements the current instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u153	I do recognize what the Minister says, that under pressure from activist shareholders dividends are rapidly increased and divisions are split. My question is: if you draw that standard of living to 95%, a company with 6% of its share capital can block an acquisition. Isn't that also a huge protection against activist shareholders threatening the pressure of a possible takeover?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u154	We have analysed the European directives. The European directives aim to protect the interests of shareholders in Europe. We have also legally transposed these directives. We have come to the conclusion that this would restrict the rights of shareholders in such a way that it does not stand up. We therefore believe that it is not a legally sustainable construction. Moreover, this construction could only provide a theoretical solution in the case of takeovers, but in the case of activist shareholders, which we have just discussed with each other, it does not provide a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mrs. Van den Berg. No, Mr. Paternotte, twice, really. We're gonna go a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u156	Can I ask you one more very short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u158	My question to the Minister is to send the legal basis for this to the Chamber, because it is said that the 95% option should not really be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u159	We, the outgoing cabinet, are now simply asking the Chamber to take note of our assessment of the current situation and how we think it should be addressed. On the basis of this analysis, which we have shared with the Chamber, we are now discussing it with all kinds of interested parties. This will be further developed. This could then lead to a legislative proposal. It goes without saying that, within the framework of the legislative proposal and its further preparation, Mr Paternotte's point will also be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u160	My question is about what Mr Paternotte just said. The Minister is right to say that the other three proposals described in the letter are only effective in certain situations. The Minister said that raising the level of awareness is clearly contrary to the European directive. Do I understand that this also applies to the other two options described in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u161	There are two objections to the three other variants. The first objection is: you do nothing against activist shareholders in shareholders' meetings. The second objection is: you are quickly in breach of European directives, which makes it not legally sustainable either. We must also keep this in mind for the proposal that we prefer, the reflection period. So it's about how we shape that. I have already said that the year starts after the takeover and in that year, up to a year, which can be invoked optionally by the management of the target company, attention can therefore be paid to the other stakeholders and to the long-term value creation that is deemed necessary. So that is what we are making possible, but we will also have to shape and underpin this in order to ensure that the conflict with European directives does not occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u162	In fact, the Minister has already answered a question not yet asked, at least not by me. He said: variants b, c and d appear or are contrary to European law. He indicated that it would not be contrary to European law in the way he explained it, with the deadlines from the takeover. Now he says: we have to look at it very carefully. But in view of the letter and the preference for variant a, I assumed that it had already been investigated. Is there any doubt about the change of mind or does the Minister say: no, that seems safe in some way? Otherwise, we will now have a problem if we want something that may not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u163	We have studied this carefully and found that variants b, c and d are at great risk of violating European directives. Moreover, they are only a solution to some of the two problems. The first variant, which we would like to present to the Chamber as a preferred variant, is the one with the reflection period of one year. Our conclusion is that, provided that it is well formulated and well explained, it is sustainable if it is assessed in accordance with the European directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u164	In spite of the outgoing status of the cabinet, will the Minister in one way or another, perhaps with a letter, indicate on what grounds that period of reflection would be legally in order? We must be more or less certain about that, otherwise it will not be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u165	No, I'm not gonna do that. I've given the Chamber a letter now. I have indicated what we intend to do. We are now in the process of making a major impact assessment by talking to everyone involved to assess the impact of the current proposal, as Mrs De Vries also asked. We are now working on a proposal to the Chamber for the approximation of legislation. The legislative proposal will, of course, have to provide a sound basis and will have an exchange of views with the Chamber on all these aspects. So I will leave it to this letter, to the consultation that is going on and then to the legislative proposal that is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u166	If I listen very carefully between the rules, then that first variant would not be in conflict with European regulations, because the moment when the reflection period starts will only come after the takeover is done. That does raise questions for me, because what can be undone? In that year, can only the bidder decide to undo it, and is the target company concerned no longer able to prevent the takeover? If that is the case, what exactly is the added value of such a protection structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u167	As Mr Van der Lee says, we cannot intervene during the bidding process and say what can and cannot be done. If you do that, you are in breach of the European directive and the laws that we have adopted to implement it ourselves. So we can't do that. Well, here's what we can do. The board of a company can buy time..... up to a year... if it says: with what is happening here, the interests we represent in the Rhineland model are not well taken care of. Then the board can still pay sufficient attention to these interests. There is a preventive effect of the fact that the administration can do so, take time, pay attention to it and develop it further. Within the principles of free market operation and protection of property, you can still accompany the business in such a way that it has an effect. That effect is double. First of all, in that year you can give the attention that you cannot give in the short term in the event of pressure to all the other interests that I have just mentioned. Secondly, there is a preventive effect on the fact that up to a year is being used for matters other than those the potential acquirer has been working on. Both these things are the effect of what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u168	I'd like to get on with this. I heard the Minister say in an interim manner that the bid must also be respected by the acquiring party. But then what happens in the year after that? If that has to be done and the administration still comes up with alternative plans, how will it work in practice? And who's gonna make the decision about that in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u169	The decision to call for a maximum of one year's reflection period is up to the management of the target company, i.e. the company that is in the picture to be taken over. We have looked carefully at how to deal with that year. That year cannot be used to make God's water run over God's field. In the spirit of what is stated in the corporate governance code, of statements by the Entrepreneurship Chamber and of what is governed by the law, there will need to be active action. So in that year we have to look at the other interests that I have just identified. These interests need to be identified, they need to be taken into account and conclusions drawn. The bill, which I think the next cabinet could come up with, will have to indicate what activities are expected of the management of the target company. That administration will have to be in the process of making sure that the things that need to be sorted out are also sorted out at that time. There will be a need to communicate with all stakeholders and certainly with the shareholders. Furthermore, it will be necessary to communicate with the acquiring party. An active action is therefore expected from the management of the target company in the period of one year. This will have to be accounted for by that board, by the general meeting of shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u170	I do not know if this answer will make it clearer to me. Should the company come up with an alternative plan so that shareholders can weigh it up? When that does not happen or is rejected, is the acquiring company the owner automatically after a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u171	The process of that year begins to run after the takeover. There's a takeover bid, there's a bid coming up, then that bid has to be kept, and then you have a takeover. But at that time, the management of the company which is threatened with being acquired or which has been taken over can ensure that what has not received sufficient attention gets attention. That board can use up to a year to do so. This means that the interests which have not received sufficient attention will still receive this attention. Due to the fact that this is the case for up to a year, there is a certain preventive effect to ensure that hostile takeovers are not seen as an interesting option. In the case of the parties wishing to take over, the primary aim will be a friendly takeover. Maybe it is a good thing that I say something about the difference between a friendly and a hostile takeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr Van Rooijen, this will be your third and final interruption. I would first like to give the Minister the opportunity to finish this section. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u173	I still have a lot of parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u174	Then I will go to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u175	The Minister gives a very important explanation of the operation or non-function of that period. I understand that this deadline is mainly intended as a preventive measure. However, if the bid is continued, the one-year deadline will still run, but that cannot lead to the takeover being cancelled, unless the acquiring party itself stops doing so. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u176	Yes. You say that this deadline is mainly aimed at prevention. It aims to ensure that the interests of long-term value creation and of all stakeholders receive the attention they deserve. In addition, it will have a preventive effect. That is what I said, and that is how it was focused on a point by Mr Van Rooijen. May I say something about friendly and hostile takeovers? Mrs. De Vries asked how many hostile takeovers have you had? It's just what you see as a hostile takeover. What Akzo has done, namely that there is a party coming from America that presents plans, then makes an offer and then another offer, and who makes statements about the board of directors and the board of directors, is formally not a hostile takeover, but it has been experienced as such by the target company. It is also understandable that it has been experienced as such. I think the difference between hostile and friendly is less relevant. What matters is whether all the interests that need to be weighed are also weighted. In order to ensure this, we are making the proposal as we have done: a reflection period of one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u177	I understand from the Minister that the reflection period of a year applies when the board chooses to do so. Doesn't he think that this will make the staff who are affected by it inadequate? Does he not think that there is a role for the employees and that it should be a joint decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u178	I will certainly come back to the interests of the workers in the course of my response to what was put forward by the spokesmen, but I would prefer to do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u179	Then I suggest you continue with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u180	In addition to the choice made by the cabinet to present and present at this time in all the discussions that are taking place, namely the period of a one-year reflection period, the cabinet wishes to hold additional talks with institutional investors. Several spokesmen have also expressed their views on this issue. I think that institutional investors, in particular, are talking about pension funds in the Netherlands. The pension funds in the Netherlands have invested 4% of the money entrusted to them in Dutch AEX-listed companies. In the case of insurance companies, that is 25% at the moment. 4% isn't much. We must also realise that pension funds manage the money entrusted to them by employers and employees as deferred wages. However, representatives of the employers' and employees' organisations govern the pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u181	It has already been mentioned what Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW said about what pension funds should do. We have also heard what the trade union movement, the FNV and the CNV have said about this. If the organized employers and employees consider that there could be extra attention from pension funds in this respect, I would also like to see that implemented. Both parties could also make this happen in the pension funds' governing bodies. Pension funds are there to pay the pensions that pensioners and participants are counting on. The pensioners and participants who have been workers are still in work and their families, children and grandchildren too have an interest in maintaining those elements of our Dutch society that have created the current situation. And then there are all kinds of parties with responsibilities: civil society organisations, companies, pension funds, insurers and governments. In all kinds of places, you share responsibility in our country. The pension funds also share responsibility. When precisely filling in the interests of your participants and pensioners, you also take into account the general interest, a stable Dutch society. Through targeted investments in important Dutch companies, you can have a positive, stabilising effect in a responsible way. The final effect is that it helps to bring about long-term value creation, which is also in the interests of the members and pensioners of pension funds. I think this is very well organized. The organized employers feel that way and the organised workers feel that way. So I could also imagine that, in the discussions we have with pension funds and insurance companies, we are asking if there are any things that stand in their way, and perhaps we can help to remove them. It is therefore a question of constructive consultation, with respect for the position of pension funds, where we also see who ultimately controls those pension funds, what money they manage and what importance these pension funds represent in the whole of Dutch society. The second element is therefore the discussions we are currently having with institutional investors. The third element concerns economic security. A number of spokesmen have spoken about this. A thorough analysis of the interests that need to be protected has been carried out. We have looked at which companies would have major problems for Dutch society if they got into trouble or were misdirected. We have highlighted the following issues: the transport and distribution of electricity and gas, the supply of oil, the Internet and data services available in the Netherlands and in a broader sense the telecommunications services, the supply of drinking water, the handling of aircraft movements, the resolution of shipping, the large-scale production and processing of chemicals, the payment of banks, and the use of police and defence. All this has been shown, and we are currently looking at sector by sector whether the interests that need to be protected are adequately protected by the existing rules. The cabinet has already come to the conclusion that something extra must be done with regard to telecommunications. We've put a bill into consultation. Responses have been received; we are studying them and looking at how we can draw conclusions from them in the further settlement of the legislative proposal. We are also looking at all these other sectors, and then we are looking at whether all these analyses of all these sectors will provide something that would require some sort of basic regulation for the whole. I don't know if that's true. The line has so far been designed to bring it to a solution by sector. In addition, we are considering whether a scheme for the whole should be included. I think it's very reasonable to do that. In the first instance, it is up to companies themselves to allow takeovers to take place, but there is also a general interest that needs to be protected. That is what the government is for, and this is how we are fulfilling that role. On the last point, that of reciprocity, I have already gone into it. This is particularly important in the European context. If, in fact, the Netherlands warns China one more time, it will have some significance, but it still puts more weight on the scale if the European countries together, through the European Union, try to make possible for them in China what China can do here. That is why we want to increase reciprocity particularly at European level. We welcome the European Council's statement, the commitment of the European Commission and the driving role of some countries, with the Netherlands joining us, to ensure that what is reasonably necessary in the Dutch general interest is done on this issue. I propose that we now deal separately with the various points raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u182	Before you go any further, Mrs De Vries has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u183	The Minister specifically mentions the general interest. Judgments have been made by the European Court, which set limits on how to protect and protect the public interest. How does the Minister view that? What are the possibilities for legislation and case law at all, in view of these rulings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u184	Sure, that always has to happen. You make your own analysis and consider what may need to happen in addition to what is already there. Then you'll see what options there are for that. Then you look at how that relates to your own legislation and what there is in Europe of regulations and perhaps directives that we have translated into laws here. So you're also looking at the legal aspects. After that, you can draw your conclusions. The aspect mentioned by Mrs De Vries is, of course, always included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u185	I have another question on the extension of that. We're talking about takeovers now. The fact that a company is in Dutch hands does not always mean that it is also in good hands. Things happen there sometimes. At URENCO, sensitive information has also disappeared abroad. Is there only a look at takeovers, or does the Minister intend to look very specifically and specifically at how to resolve them? I can also imagine that you're recording certain issues by means of invitations to tender. For example, if the Empire tendered something sensitive, you could include a number of rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u186	We do not look primarily at takeovers by sector. No, we look at the interests of Dutch society by sector, which deserve protection from the government. Once we have established that, we will see if the existing rules are sufficient. For example, if we were concerned about the transport of gas and electricity in the Netherlands, we would find that these networks are in the hands of the government, which gives us sufficient certainty. If you then look at the internet and other telecommunications connections, you can see that some of them are owned by foreign companies. Moreover, these foreign companies have all kinds of equipment in the Netherlands that is owned by other foreign companies. So it is quite conceivable that there is something there that needs to be given more protection than it is currently receiving. Then you have to offer that protection and then the acquisition side is an important part of it. There is therefore a need for a broad assessment of what is needed for each sector in order to effectively protect the interests to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u187	I still have a question about the European legal dimension, and in particular that of the three options other than the cabinet's preferred option. Is it true that the protection structures of European Member States such as France and Germany, because they have been in existence for a long time, are possible under European law, but that the Netherlands, because it has had a period in which protection has actually been reduced in relative terms, now has very limited possibilities to create additional protection, because there is European regulation? Is it true that this only makes it possible for the Netherlands to have the first option?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u188	Yes, you have rules and protection structures where you can see very specifically whether there is conflict with legislation implementing European directives. But you can also have informal protection. In France, for example, there is a high degree of interdependence between politics and administration. If one considers something politically undesirable there, it is therefore difficult for an acquiring party to get it through the administrative system. In itself, this also results in a slowing effect. Moreover, in a country such as France, important stock packages in key companies are held by the state. In Italy a similar role is played by wealthy families. They have a large share package in the big companies and play that stabilising role. For example, each country has its own culture and its own defence structures. The Netherlands is a very open economy. We also have a great interest in being an open economy. We are also able to play a good role in this open economy, because we have a very strong economy. It is very competitive and exportable. But even in a country like the Netherlands, which has a great interest in that open economy, there can be a development that is regretful in a short period of time. In this development, which I outlined at the beginning, the large Dutch multinationals are under pressure from activist parties who are seeking to generate profits themselves in the short term. This is at the expense of the other interests to be protected in the Netherlands. That situation is happening at the moment in my opinion and in the conviction of many others. That is why we are now putting forward a proposal while preserving the good of the Dutch situation. Because we have to remain a strong economy. We must remain competitive. But if things are under pressure, we must ensure that interests other than the short-term interests of activist shareholders receive the attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u189	I think Mr Van der Lee is making a justified point. If I am right, the Minister should correct me if he is not. At the moment, the takeover directive regulates that existing protection structures can continue to exist, but it is very difficult for companies to build up new structures when the present ones expire. That is also because it requires the consent of the shareholders. Is that right? Is it not true that the readmission directive will soon be under discussion again? Would that not be a good time for the Dutch Government to arrange for Member States to allow new protection structures if they consider that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u190	It is true that existing constructions are respected at the time the rules were changed. Akzo has a very old protection structure. This means that a foundation is run by a board that largely corresponds to Akzo's supervisory board. In situations of imminent takeover, that foundation has the exclusive right to appoint the directors and members of the Supervisory Board. That's a protection structure that couldn't be done at the moment, but it existed. When the rules were changed, that construction was respected. There are also protection structures that end at some point. Ahold has a protection structure that is written in the newspapers that will end next year. This means that new protection structures and the renewal of protection structures can be discussed at some point. There are companies that have not chosen to do so in the past, but they would now like to do so. If a Dutch multinational company, 90% of its shares are in foreign hands, this is not in practice a viable way. You can't do that anymore. So what there is about protection structures is valuable, but an extra effort by the Dutch government in the way I described in the letter is, I think, useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u191	Then the minister actually throws the towel in the ring. Because he says that we can't really do anything anymore when that ends and we find that the majority of the shares are held by foreign parties. If we find that problem, isn't it the right thing to do? Then we should go to Brussels and agree on a new directive: boys, let us ensure that we give companies the opportunity, if necessary with less shareholder participation, to build up structures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u192	Sure. That is also one of the proposals we have made. We talked about option a. In the end, we concluded that a one-year reflection period was the best solution. We have also suggested this as a possibility. But once you limit the shareholders' freedom to decide on protection structures, by saying that you do not need the majority of shareholders' meetings, but only a third or a quarter, there is a limitation of shareholders' rights in such a way that, according to our legal analysis, it violates the guidelines. Mr Hijink is now saying that you should change the directives. That is indeed something you can discuss. I can say that we managed to do it quite quickly if that leads to something in a period of five years. But in the meantime, things happen. I think we should do something for that in line with what the cabinet proposed in the letter to the Chamber. I would point out that this possibility, i.e. the importance of protection structures in the current situation, could be re-examined at European level. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u193	I, and I believe that this also applies to a number of colleagues, have always assumed that this period of reflection should take place after the hostile takeover bid, while the Minister, if I have understood him correctly, says that the reflection period will only take place after the bid has been complied with. I would very much like to hear from him exactly what that means, because it raises all kinds of questions to me, for example: if it starts after the bid has been made, does this mean that a 100% shareholder cannot replace the management of a company for a year? Is that what this is all about? And also: how would this period of reflection be a weapon against shareholder activism, since it only starts after a company has already been taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u194	Entering the reflection period in the case of a takeover is one of the aspects of what we are proposing. Another aspect concerns the case that a shareholder manifests itself as activist in a general meeting of shareholders and that the management of a company is put under pressure. At that moment, the reflection period begins to run as well. So you have two different periods of thought. One period of reflection takes place in the event of a takeover. The other period of reflection takes place when an activist shareholder in a general meeting puts pressure on the management of a company. In the latter case, the period of up to one year starts to run from the start of those activities. In the first case, the period of one year starts to run as soon as the acquisition has been completed. That earlier than that, would be such an intervention in shareholders' rights that you are acting in violation of the rules. That is why we are proposing it in this way. In our opinion, this is not contrary to the rules and has the double effect I have just described. First of all, you give the board the opportunity to give the other interests the attention they deserve. Secondly, it is intended to prevent the takeover of a company, not in a hostile atmosphere, but in a spirit of constructive consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u195	In my view, this is a lot of new information. In addition to the reflection period after the bid has been kept, there would therefore be a second form of reflection period, which can be invoked by the management of a company in manifest shareholder activism. Can the Minister explain exactly how this is going to work, what would be the qualification of that activism and whether it should indeed be demonstrated at a shareholders' meeting or in other ways? Subject to other shareholders or their rights during that period of reflection, or can this in fact lead a company to suspend the shareholders' meeting for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u196	I am not defending a bill here, but outline a problem that is experienced by me, by the cabinet and by people who have led and run internationally operating Dutch companies. You yourself outlined this problem at the beginning of your contribution. For my part, I have also mentioned this problem, and I have indicated what we could do to respond to it. This debate is an opportunity for me to clarify how we see this period of reflection of a year. There are two problems described in the letter. One problem is a hostile takeover where insufficient attention is paid to the interests of all stakeholders and long-term value creation. The other problem is that, in a general meeting of shareholders, the management is put under pressure by activist shareholders to one-sidedly focus on the interests of those shareholders and jeopardise the interests of long-term value creation and other stakeholders. For both cases it is necessary to introduce a period of reflection, because this period of reflection can be used to do justice to all these other interests. That is why this reflection period could, in our view, work well for both situations. In one case, it begins when activist shareholders manifest themselves in the general meeting of shareholders. In the other case, it begins when the acquisition of the company is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u197	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Rooijen, I see that you want to interrupt and you may think: a new President, who may not know the rules of the game. But I understand that as spokesmen, you have made an agreement among yourselves to limit the number of interruptions to three and that you have already had three. I shall therefore first give the opportunity to other Members to place their interruptions. You will soon have a second deadline, in which you can ask any remaining questions to the Minister. I'm going to see Mrs. Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u198	I have a question of my own on behalf of Mr Paternotte. I'm just trying to imagine. So there's... I understand you can't stop the bidding process in itself. So that goes on, but I also understand that it was the intention that there would be no actual acquisition within that year, as it is not possible to do within those 180 days. In that sense, I would like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u199	I've tried to give that clarity. Mrs van den Berg's question shows that this has not yet been achieved. That is why I would like to say once again that it is not the case that our proposal for a period of reflection can block a takeover. A takeover process is taking place, but it may be that in that process the interests of all stakeholders and the importance of long-term value creation have not received the attention they need. With this period of reflection of a year, we want to create that opportunity. From the fact that you can use that reflection period of up to a year before that, an effect also goes to potentially acquiring parties. Those potentially acquiring parties will realise that this is being discussed, and that will then be an additional incentive to make an acquisition not in a hostile atmosphere but in a friendly atmosphere. As a result, there is the possibility to clearly identify all these interests, the interests of suppliers, the interests of customers, the interests of employees and the importance of long-term value creation, and to give them the attention they deserve. If that is the case, there is no need to stand in the way of a takeover as a government, unless it creates risks in certain vital sectors of our society. I say this also in response to questions put by Mrs Van den Berg. In that case, we may have to be able to block a takeover, but for that we have a bill in preparation for the telecoms sector. It is possible that there will be additional proposals for other sectors and that there will then be a dome-like legislative proposal that will look at the whole. I hope I have been sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u200	I have an enlightening question. The Minister just indicated that the shareholders' meeting would have to call in the corporate governance code, but I have also heard some real reports that the board can do so and that that has been endorsed by the Enterprise Chamber. An example of this from 2013 would be Cryo-save. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u201	I did not say that the General Assembly should call it in. The board can call that in. The board may or may not do things on the basis of the corporate governance code, but ultimately it is the general meeting of shareholders that decides whether the board will be able to do so. If the board doesn't have room for that, that can't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u202	I have received the signal that the board can call in that six months response time and that the Enterprise Chamber has said that it is in agreement and that it does not need to go to the ava. That is not what the Minister said, and that is why I think it is important to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u203	The Entrepreneurship Chamber may rule in an individual case. That is what we are doing, and it is also very good that the Enterprise Chamber can do and does so. It is also very good that we have a corporate governance code. By the way, we recently renewed it. It is also the case that the General Assembly can let it go or can't let it go. If a company is acting in such a way that it is justified for the Company Chamber to correct, the Company Chamber may do so. The corporate governance code is not in the law and is therefore regulated in a different way, namely in the spirit of voluntaryity. Ultimately, its application by the Management Board depends on the consent of the general meeting of shareholders. In the Anglo-Saxon world, business is governed by the law or it is not in the law. If it is in the law, one has to abide by it, but if it is not in the law, one can decide for oneself how to deal with it. We have the conviction that the leaders of the big Dutch international companies, too, must, on top of what is already happening, introduce this extra reflection period in order to ensure that a balanced situation is created, which can guarantee a careful treatment of all interests. I come to Mrs van den Berg's contribution, as far as I have not yet given an adequate response. Mrs Van den Berg asked for a preventive test. It is therefore very good that we are working on all these sectors. That will also be done for security, under the direction of the National Coordinator. It's also happening from the Ministry of Security and Justice. From that ministry, when the results are available, we will communicate to the Chamber what conclusions we have drawn from them, what analysis we have made and what actions we consider necessary. Mrs van den Berg wondered whether it was useful to lower the threshold for the compulsory application of a structural regime. We have already set that threshold low; it is 16 million. Lowering that threshold further means that a lot of smaller companies will be covered by that regime, which is not in the interests of those companies. I don't want to make a statement about that right now. I believe that this will be reviewed in the context of the modernisation of company law. Mrs van den Berg will certainly be there by then, so that can also get her attention. At the moment, we are in the process of providing a concrete practical problem which arises with an adequate policy response, and I do not feel that it can make a positive contribution to the structural regime for small businesses as well. Mrs van den Berg wondered whether we should also allocate agricultural land to the vital infrastructure. I don't think so myself. I believe that, in addition to what we all do in the Netherlands in agriculture, the common agricultural policy also provides a sufficient basis for long-term food supplies in Europe. There is a healthy market functioning. Much is being produced, and I believe that, as a result of everything that has already been arranged on this point, it is not necessary to introduce additional measures. I have already mentioned other sectors for which you could also draw that conclusion, for example the hard infrastructure, the roads, the bridges and the tunnels. They are also in the hands of the governments. This means that the risks are also limited. Mrs Van den Berg also said that the possibility of adapting Dutch company law could be considered, so that shares without nominal value or voting rights could also be made possible. It is already the case that Dutch company law offers a lot of flexibility and allows for different classes of shares. In modernising this right, the possibility has already been suggested of doing what Mrs van den Berg is suggesting. For the bv's that has been in the picture. For the nv's this possibility is not open but for the bv's. My colleague, the Minister for Security and Justice, has indicated that he wants to show this further in the modernisation of company law, for which there is a route. I will also tell him that Mrs van den Berg has given us this as a point of attention. I have spoken about institutional investors, just as Mrs Van den Berg has done. I have also spoken about the 3% threshold. Mr Van Rooijen also spoke about the vital sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u204	Before you turn to Mr Van Rooijen's questions, Mrs Van den Berg has a short question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u205	I have a few brief questions. The first relates to the threshold. I may have explained it wrong. We are referring precisely to the fact that the amount is going to be higher than 16 million, so that you will be less quickly covered by the structural regime. Then I have a question with regard to the shares without profit or nominal value. We know that it is in any case applied in Luxembourg without nominal value and that a large company which also has its statutes. Without profit is indeed already possible in the current e.g.. So I understand that both options will then be taken into account by the Minister of Security and Justice. Then the point of that 3%. I may not have been paying attention for a moment, but I have no reminder that the Minister has responded to our proposal that 1% should be required to report that you are a shareholder. This means that a company has previously noticed that there are activist shareholders in the constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u206	I do not think I made that clear, so that is not up to Mrs van den Berg but to me. First, the two other points. Thank you for the clarification. I will pass it on to my colleague, Mrs van den Berg, in the right way, so that he can take this into account in the further process as being her view on behalf of the CDA Group. Then that 3%. We've already lowered it once. At the moment, I have the impression that the 3% we now have is a reasonable limit. If you go further down it, many companies will have to take that into account under all kinds of circumstances. This leads to additional administrative pressure on companies. I don't know if there's any profit in that. As part of the proposal we are now making, I do not intend to change anything about that percentage. However, I would like to say to Mrs Van den Berg that after the broad consultation, which takes the form of an impact assessment, I will give this point attention to the further consideration of the proposal we are going to make, aimed at introducing a period of reflection of one year, as is our current intention. Then I come to the Group of 50PLUS and the point of vital sectors, which Mr Graus of the PVV also spoke about. We have already had a number of communication moments with the Chamber at this point; we have sent letters. This started in 2015, when the Minister of Security and Justice informed the Chamber about the criteria, about category A and category B, and about companies that were or were not covered by them. Later on, attention was given to this in the progress notes. We are now busy with the different sectors. I propose that we conclude this now, in line with what we have communicated to the Chamber so far, and then share the findings with the Chamber. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether we should wait for action from the European Commission on reciprocity. I agree with him because it is best to see the importance of the Netherlands as part of the European interest. For this kind of discussion that is taking place in the world towards America, China and other large countries, it is best to involve the European Commission. That's the way we're going. We have already talked about pension funds. Mr Hijink advocated greater employee control. Mr Nijboer did the same. I think this is justified. But more employee control is not something that we need to fight for each other, because it has been regulated over the past decades. We have a works council and a law on works councils. We have information rights, right of assignment and right of initiative for works councils. In addition, a works council has the right to give advice on the planned decision of the board to support a public bid or not. In the Decision public bids and in the Financial Supervision Act, we have further introduced rules to safeguard the interests of employees in an offer to a stock exchange company. I therefore believe that this has been adequately arranged. At the moment, I am working on behalf of the cabinet to ensure that if the interests of employees do not need sufficient attention in the event of a takeover, this can still be enforced with the legal period of reflection. That is an addition to what already exists, in the spirit of what Mr Hijink and Mr Nijboer advocate. Mr Hijink asked to change the relationship between profit and wages. He felt that more attention should be paid to the employees working in the companies rather than to the profits that the shareholders would get from those companies. Companies are organisations to make profits. You have to produce and sell products and services for that. That's what you need people for. Then it is a question of market forces and ensuring that both capital and labour are used. It is up to the social partners, sometimes it is directly between the entrepreneur and the employee, but often also between the organized employers and the organized workers, to discuss this and to conclude collective agreements on it. I think that we have done this well and that we should not do any additional things in the light of the problems we are now discussing. Mr Hijink also asked whether it would be possible to introduce a test aimed at sustainability. I don't think it's good to do that. The governance of companies in the Netherlands, according to the Rhineland model, must already make a balance in which the interests of all stakeholders and long-term value creation prevail. And sustainability is an important part of long-term value creation. I do not see how a review committee could do that better than the management of a company that is moving within the Rhineland model. Mr Hijink suggested that it should be able to be reversed if, after a number of years, it turns out that things are going wrong in his eyes. I believe that this creates great uncertainty and that it is unnecessary to intervene in shareholders' property rights. The assessment of societal interests such as employment, innovation and sustainability is very important. That's a political thing, too. So that is what we need to talk about in this house, and we have laws and regulations for that. The moment we think that this kind of thing is compromised, we can do something about it. The proposal we are making now strengthens the position of the management of a company that focuses on the long term and sustainability. I think that is enough in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u207	The Minister doesn't quite sum up my proposal. As far as I am concerned, it is not just about sustainability. It's also about a test. For example, you could use the one-year legal period to carry out a test in that year with regard to the consequences of the proposed acquisition. Then you can test not only sustainability, but also employment and innovation, for example. You can also look at how much public money has been put into a company over the years and whether it is a shame that it is likely to get overboard at the push of a button. Such a test seems to me to be quite logical, also because governance can sometimes have different interests than the social interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u208	I believe that we are on the same page, except when Mr Hijink talks about the public money invested in a company. We invest money in a company when the company innovates and if we believe that innovation is and should be encouraged in the general interest. The company has to invest in it itself, but the government supports it. If we agree on this and make commitments on it, we must also keep it. We can't get that money back at some point. However, the period of one year must be used for the interests that I have just formulated several times. It is very sensible to have a picture of sustainability in the context of long-term value creation and to pay attention to it. I think that year before that can be used very well. I don't think we're looking at that point differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u209	I think so. I am not just concerned that the reflection period is a solution to everything. I think it is much more important that not only the management of the company looks at the importance of a takeover, but also that the government looks at it. I'm not talking about all the takeovers, I'm talking about big takeovers involving billions. We know that 70% to 80% of all acquisitions fail and do not increase the value for shareholders and for society. Then what makes more sense than that in the case of large takeovers, we draw a line somewhere, for example at 1 billion dollars, a committee looks at the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u210	I do not comment on the percentages mentioned by Mr Hijink. I have no information on the basis of which I can say that the situation is as Mr Hijink describes it. Taking overs, so taking overs and taking overs are part of the business world. In the Netherlands, too, this has created companies that are so strong worldwide that, together with Dutch SMEs and with Dutch governments and knowledge institutions, they have been able to create and acquire a position in the world, which means that there is a lot of high-level employment in the Netherlands and that we have great prosperity. I don't think we need to worry about that right away. But things can go wrong if there are vital sectors in the picture. We have to face this and the government must pay particular attention to this. However, I do not think that there should be an additional substantive test on the part of the public authorities for the normal functioning of companies in a free market, other than the year of reflection that we are now proposing if the interests to be defended are to some extent not given sufficient attention. Mr Hijink expressed his support for the year's reflection period, as almost all spokesmen have done, except for Mrs De Vries. I also discussed reciprocity. I think I've answered all his questions with that. Mr Paternotte said that there is already experience in Australia with a period of reflection of a year. I think it is very useful to involve Australia's experience further in the preparation of the legislative proposal that we are now considering and on which the discussions are currently taking place. I'll pay that attention to it. Mr Paternotte had reservations about the length of the one-year period. At the moment, the corporate governance code starts with a response time of 180 days. A limit of one and a half years has been set by case law for the duration of the protection structures. So you have six months and one and a half years now. I believe that a period of up to one year, which is now the subject of our proposal, is a reasonable complement and does not go too far either way. If we defend this proposal in the Chamber later, Mr Paternotte will be able to assess our arguments and see if he supports it. I believe that a period of up to one year can ensure that the very important interests of companies can be fully taken into account. Mr Paternotte indicated that the period of one year's reflection would have to be used actively. I have indicated that this must indeed be done in order to do what we have just discussed. I believe that in that year there should also be communication with all stakeholders, including shareholders, and accountability should be provided by the board towards the general meeting of shareholders. We will certainly make that part of our proposal. Apart from the fact that I think it is necessary and desirable, I think it is also necessary to ensure that you remain within the framework of the European directive. That will certainly be part of the proposal. Mr Paternotte spoke of an exchange of information which would have taken place between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Akzo and which he assessed negatively. We maintain intensive contacts with the big Dutch companies. Economic Affairs is a network ministry. We have contacts with all companies, organized or directly, sometimes because they have problems, sometimes because they have ideas and sometimes because they want to do things together. There are very intensive contacts with all kinds of companies in all kinds of ways and certainly with the large companies, which play a prominent role. AkzoNobel is very active in the top sector of Chemistry and the top sector of Energy and has also contributed to large research clusters. We have a close working relationship with such a company. The moment a company demands extra attention from us for something, there is communication, based on the working relationship that is already there. If a substantive error is made in the exchange of data, we will check it and try to avoid it next time. They appreciate a normal constructive relationship with large Dutch companies. It is also in the general Dutch interest that that relationship is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u211	It is quite understandable that there is contact between the Ministry and Akzo. As can also be seen in the wobbled documents, an official of the Ministry indicates that Akzo will receive confidential information and that he will later also go to the Lower House, but that the Ministry wants to finish the letter on takeover policy and that there will therefore be a delay note to the Lower House. We then read in that postponement note that this is postponed because of inter-departmental consultations. That almost raises the question whether Akzo is also a department. If not, how is it possible that there is something in the delay note other than in the wobbled piece and the communication towards Akzo?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u212	One doesn't have to stand in the way of the other. It may well be that there is a need for information from a company that you then have to consult interdepartmentally on again. But I think two things should be clear. Firstly, we must deal with confidential information correctly. Secondly, we must inform the Chamber correctly. I will look into this in greater depth in the light of the attention you are asking for. If it can be done better next time, I'll make sure that happens next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u213	I'm really glad to hear that. I would also like to make the assessment of this, because I understand that you are going to do research, but is it indeed not customary for draft answers to written questions to be submitted to a company before they go to the House of Representatives? Can I make that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u214	That's quite possible. If we are to give information to the Chamber about a company, I think it would be wise to hold it against that company in advance. You're gonna get information from a company like this first. Then you try to formulate that correctly. Then you can have it checked to see if you formulated it correctly. As long as it is intended to inform the Chamber properly and that happens in a way that does not mistreat confidential information, I have no objection to it. Mr. Chairman. I look at the notes on what Mr Paternotte has said. I believe that I have provided a response to the points he has raised. Then I come to Mr Van der Lee. Mr Van der Lee spoke about the test, which I have already addressed. That was also mentioned by Mr Nijboer. Then he talked about sustainability in the statutes. I do not think that this is now a time to say that there should be something more in the statutes of all Dutch companies. I believe that this could perhaps be discussed on another occasion. Companies are well aware that if you want to run a company in the long term, you must be a sustainable company that also works in a constructive way in its environment, with customers and suppliers as well as with governments, as well as civil society organisations. In the next governance code, we have also worked out this much more in detail. The companies see this very well. Through the corporate governance code we are also involved and it gets the attention that I think it deserves. Mr Van der Lee spoke about pension funds. That's what I've been working on. He talked about the remuneration policy. I do not believe that this is the place to exchange views on rewards within companies. That is not the subject of this letter and what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u215	However, I would like to return to my proposal to ask companies that need more protection to include in their statutes what their long-term vision is of undertaking and how they can do so in a socially responsible and sustainable way. It seems to me to be at the heart of what the Minister is trying to do. He explains better in the Chamber than in the letter that it is primarily his job to reduce the role of activist shareholders. In fact, if I understand correctly, it is a little less about those hostile takeovers that are also almost non-existent and more about the role of the activist shareholder. Is it not very good that the company's statutes are clear that these Dutch multinationals have a long-term vision and carry it out? Wouldn't that be a good preventive effect? In addition to a somewhat artificial year of reflection, it is not quite clear to me when it starts as an activist shareholder, for example, proposes to reject a division. I think my idea is a little clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u216	I do not agree with Mr Van der Lee when he says that the proposal we are making for that year is not so much about hostile takeovers. The difference between a hostile and a friendly takeover is often a semantic difference. It's about how you behave and what situation you create. Then it may be that what is formally not hostile is experienced as such and is actually material. We have now seen a number of cases where this has been discussed. I've already mentioned four of them. Some Members of Parliament have also mentioned them. In a short time, this will be the case with the largest Dutch companies. This proposal is necessary in order to ensure that not only the interests of shareholders who look at their own interests at such a time, but that all these other interests are reflected. This is indeed important for takeovers which may or may not be formally characterised or experienced as hostile. I think that what we have regulated for sustainability in the statutes in the recently adapted corporate governance code is good. Our CSR policy and the corporate governance code pay a lot of attention to this. I do not see why we should now, in this context, make a ruling on this, in the sense that there should be something extra and that a law should regulate that in the statutes. I believe that the way we are dealing with this now, through the corporate governance code, is the right way. I therefore hope that I have provided a response to the points raised by Mr Van der Lee. Mr Öztürk said that a year's reflection period is a year's uncertainty for employees. Mr Nijboer has already responded. He said: an attempt at takeover may result in a company being split up, parts being sold, a head office being shut down in Europe, the company being controlled from America, the research and development units being double, the company being closed down in the Netherlands and the work being taken over in America. Such a takeover does not properly protect the interests of the workers. We are now ensuring that the interests of the workers can be well protected. That's in the interests of those workers. That is why the workers' organisations strongly support this and are in favour of an optional period of up to one year. If we did not do this, large numbers of employees in large Dutch companies could find themselves in a situation where their interest does not receive the attention it deserves. The proposal we are making is entirely aimed at ensuring that interests, including those of employees, are given the right attention in all circumstances. In general, Mr Öztürk said that Dutch companies buy in other countries, and that is why you have to accept buying in your own country. That's right. It's happened over the years. The Netherlands has taken over companies. Other countries have taken over companies in the Netherlands. That was always about in balance. During the last six months, after a number of movements at a number of companies, I see that four of the six largest Dutch companies are coming to me, that there is concern and that the top business people are expressing their opinion on this, in the sense that they feel that something needs to be done about it. There's that feeling in the government, too. We want to maintain that there can be bought and sold, but all interests must also be given sufficient attention in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u217	Let me begin with the interests of the workers. The Minister said earlier that the board applied more or less that year and could indicate what the interests are. On the contrary, I want the employees, the staff, to be able to do so and for the board to be able to do so in consultation with the works council. I said, a year of uncertainty. Of course, if the board decides it's gonna be a year, the employees won't know anything for a year. That's the first thing. My second point concerns whether or not to buy internationally. Let's face it, the world and the force fields are changing. Other countries are getting richer and also have industries. At some point you have to face the reality of the world, namely that other countries have more money to buy companies in our country. We do not want our employees to suffer, and rightly so, but let us also be very realistic and honest about the changing economic forces in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u218	I do not quite follow Mr Öztürk's speech. Suppose an employee sees that the company where he works is in danger of being taken over. As a result, synergies may need to be achieved in order to pay the large acquisition sum. This means that offices, research and development departments and support departments can be closed in the Netherlands. If you see that coming towards you, you can say that you have security as an employee, namely the certainty that you lose your job, and that that is better than being in uncertainty. But I think it is much more interesting for employees to see that their interest in the whole process is well taken into account, that attention is given to this and that it has been fully reflected in the final settlement of the takeover. That is what we want to achieve here. That is why the workers' organizations in the Netherlands have said: we support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u219	Again, a driver does not always have to consider the interests of employees. It can also be a strategic move of a company's director to say: wait a minute, perhaps it is in the strategic interest of the company to accept that the Americans have a different and stricter way of working with respect to employees. I am trying to ensure that the workers' organisations are involved and sit at the table so that they can maintain the rights of workers in the debate and the discussion with the readmission partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u220	Yes, but Mr Öztürk doesn't have to do his best at all, because that has long been regulated by the Dutch legislator. What matters now is that, in current practice, situations may arise in which the interests of employees are not sufficiently reflected in takeovers. Employees are one of the most important stakeholders. We are trying to create a situation in which these interests are taken care of. I would appreciate it if this measure, which is in the interests of employees of companies, could also receive the support of Mr Öztürk. I come to Mrs De Vries' questions. The six-month response period is not extended to one year; I have already been able to talk about this. There is a difference between response time and reflection time. The reflection period is a maximum of one year. Once there is one, good use must be made of it and it must be accounted for. Mrs De Vries is concerned about the impact on the investment climate in the Netherlands. After we have focused on everything that is going on and set a line for ourselves, we are now discussing this with the Chamber to see if there is sufficient support for that line. In the meantime, there are discussions with all those involved, the companies, the organisations of employees and shareholders, and the experts in this area, to see how the measure that we regard as most real, effective and legally sustainable is being appreciated and how it is expected to work. I see all these talks as a major impact assessment, from which we will have to draw conclusions. If we finally make a proposal to the Chamber, we will share those conclusions with her to see if there is sufficient support for that at that time in the Chamber. In this way, we meet Mrs De Vries' information needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u221	It's nice that that happens. I do have a question about that. Could the impact assessment suggest that talking to investors has such a negative impact on the investment and location climate that the Minister says: I'm not going to do it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u222	It is not good if you say before a consultation: that is the outcome and that is the only thing we can agree to. Then there's no point in consulting. So you have to open the meeting, but you don't have to talk freely. There's a current problem. The people of the business community, who have been and still are responsible for this, have a view and have expressed it. Employers' organizations and trade unions have a view on this. The cabinet has looked into it and has a view on it. Then we also need to enter into this consultation. That's what we're doing right now. We indicate what we have all studied, what we have all considered and why we see one direction as the desirable direction. Well, we'd like to talk about that. On the basis of all the reactions that come to it, we will see whether that is the best way and how that way can best be realised. We'll share that with the room. But it can't be that consultation only means that others can sign by the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mrs De Vries, you too, unfortunately, are through your interruptions. I would therefore ask you to put a follow-up question in the second term, if necessary. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u224	Mrs De Vries also spoke about institutional investors. That is the point I have addressed in detail. I have also addressed the issue of conflict with European directives in detail. I have mentioned all the possibilities that have been considered. I also dealt with the vital infrastructure. Mrs De Vries pointed out that reciprocity must not lead to protectionism. I'm absolutely averse to protectionism. I believe that's a dead end. If countries in the world act freely with each other, this will lead to much more economic activity, much more work and much more prosperity. Everyone has an interest in ensuring that free trade takes place in the world within frameworks and with good supervision. But if, in practice, a non-European country in Europe is acting in a way that European companies in that other country cannot copy, then there is a problem that needs to be resolved. We have therefore drawn attention to the problem of reciprocity in the European Commission, but it is by no means the intention to turn it into protectionism. This means that movements such as those in America already point to protectionism to some extent. I mentioned the maritime sector. The recent statements by the US President are in the direction of protectionism. For Europe, but certainly for the Netherlands, that would be a dead end. I also think that it is bad for the world as a whole, and I do not want to come to that at all. I've gone into the impact assessment in detail...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u225	On reciprocity, Mr Graus has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u226	The Minister's story is very nice, but there is no level playing field. There are countries that do have protectionism; so does the Minister. As long as that happens and there is no level playing field, there is no point in us not being protectionist as well. Take a country like China; that's what the minister also meant with his reference to America. Look what a Mercedes or a BMW in China costs, but they're throwing all that cheap shit and cars on the market, under the prices of us. I think it is a good thing that America is going to do something about that and that it will end. The Minister also said: the Chinese take over everything here, but you can't take over anything there. This is also a form of protectionism of one of the greatest world powers of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u227	I think it is important that there is a healthy economic relationship between Europe and China, and that the parties fully respect each other. If China wants to take advantage of opportunities in Europe, it must first and foremost do so within the European framework. We have legislation and rules that are independently supervised. They're gonna have to settle for that. But we also believe that European companies should be able to follow the same line in China. If that is not the case, Europe will have to draw its own conclusions. I would very much rather not let that turn into: you are not joining us anymore. I would like it to end in: you come to us, we come to you and we treat each other in the same way. That is the path I would like to see the European Commission take. I also see opportunities for this, because China now has a very broad economic interest throughout the world and because of that interest there is an opportunity to make good agreements. This opportunity can best be exploited through the commitment of the European Commission. I have answered Mrs De Vries' question on the legal aspects. I think she was right to draw attention to that. I fully understand that the proposal that we have to make in the end must have a proper legal basis. I can assure the Chamber that this attention has already been fully paid and that we will continue to give it in the follow-up process. I share her view on vital infrastructure. I took that into account, as was the issue of reciprocity. Mr Graus asked which companies are of national interest. I turned that in. Of course, there are also large private companies outside this sector that we want to see continued. Fortunately, we have a society with many different companies, which are strong not only in our own country but also in other countries. Look at our big export success. I therefore believe that we in the Netherlands can afford to rely on the strength of our own business, provided that there is reciprocity, provided that there is sufficient time for careful consideration in crisis situations as well, our proposal is aimed at this and that good analyses have been carried out in the vital sectors I mentioned earlier and possible additional protection measures have been taken. Mr Nijboer pointed out that, in his view, speed is needed because there is a real threat. I agree with him. I also experience this threat as real. I've seen what happened around Unilever, because I'm closely involved. Because of our good relationship with the business community, we also exchange what is going on with us. I had the impression that there was real tension around Unilever. From AkzoNobel, everyone knows there's tension. About Philips, we read in the newspaper that an American venture investor, an activist shareholder with short-term profits as a model, has turned his eyes on the company. Ahold has also been mentioned in the newspapers, because of the activities on the food market in America. It is topical at the moment; the cabinet is well aware of that. That is why the cabinet is submitting this proposal to the Chamber. With the support of the Chamber, the cabinet would very much like to conclude the process of consultation and consultation that is currently under way and allow the next cabinet to come to the Chamber quickly with a proposal. I would like to deliver the speed recommended by Mr Nijboer. I'll make my contribution to that. Mr Nijboer also spoke about pension funds and what Mr De Boer said about them. I agree with both Mr De Boer and Mr Nijboer. I have dealt with the social test and the interests of the workers. Madam President, this is what I would like to put forward in the first place in response to the contributions of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u228	There's another question from one of those spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u229	First of all, I would like to say something about China. I hope that the Dutch Government will continue to engage in bilateral contacts and not just in contacts within the European Union, where the playing field is completely unequal and unfair. But that aside. My question is this. With one and a half employees, I can't get a good picture of it all. I would therefore like to know which companies are of national interest, not only in terms of national security, but also in terms of social and financial economics. I think there should be a list of these within the Ministry and there should also be emergency scenarios in case something happens to such companies, if they are of national interest. Perhaps the Minister could give me that as a member of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u230	We have focused on sectors of interest. We believe that there is sufficient balance in the Netherlands outside these vital sectors. It's not like we're dependent on one company. The various vital sectors have been exchanged with the Chamber since 2015. We're in the middle of finishing that now. There's no point in making a list of all kinds of companies. That's a questionable list and it's a question of what to do with it. These are the sectors where problems may arise. They're in the picture and they're being analyzed. In the rest of society there is a healthy, balanced situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u231	But balance can become unbalanced in no time. We saw that in the banking crisis, the credit crisis. I ask the Minister because every parliamentary survey shows that we are not timely. Timeliness is very important. Hopefully I'll be around for a few more years, if I still exist. I just want to take my own responsibility and have a more timely understanding of which company we have to take action at and which company we don't at. That's why I asked. It's just a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u232	I always take Mr Graus' questions very seriously. I will also take this question into account. At the moment, I do not think it has any added value to draw up lists of companies outside the vital sectors. But I'm thinking about this. If we are going to communicate about the vital sectors, I will see whether, contrary to what I have just said, a supplement would be desirable in the spirit of what Mr Graus is advocating. I don't see that, but I'd like to take a look at this. If I come to another conclusion, I will share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u233	We are now starting the second term. You have a minute and a half for your input. I am happy to give the floor first to Mrs Van den Berg. It shall speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna use my time to file three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that public authorities have tools to prevent or impose conditions on hostile or unwanted takeovers in relation to public and strategic interest;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal that, in the event of attempts at unwanted or hostile takeovers, a preventive test can be carried out by a government commission or a minister on companies in the vital infrastructure sectors of major importance to national security or the economy and employment in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that companies are provided with sufficient tools to make a good choice to prevent a hostile or unwanted takeover;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in addition to the legal reflection period, how a wider range of measures of protection instruments that companies can use against unwanted or hostile takeovers is legally established and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that essential agricultural land and essential infrastructure works do not fall into the wrong foreign hands;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has appointed vital infrastructure, with essential agricultural land and essential infrastructure works not yet explicitly secured;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and report on the need to add essential agricultural land for food supply as well as essential infrastructure works of art to the list of vital sectors/products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Graus, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-71]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Graus, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Hijink and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-72]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u235	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate colleagues, Mrs Van den Berg and Jan Paternotte, on their maiden speech and hope for a good cooperation. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has an open economy with a Rhineland-Palatinate corporate governance tradition, with long-term value creation at the heart of the interests of all stakeholders;]] [[noting that there has recently been an increase in takeover activities in which activist shareholders in particular play a role;]] [[Observed that more and more companies are on the take-over path from countries that close their borders to international investment and/or where there are often State participations;]] [[noting that the broad monetary policy in Europe and the relative low level of the euro and interest rates make it relatively cheap to take over businesses in the euro area;]] [[Notes that, among other things, the New York Times of 27 June 2017 shows that US companies can protect themselves much better against activist shareholders than companies in almost all European countries;]] [[Whereas these factors contribute to the absence (more) of a level playing field with normal market conditions and open, balanced relationships on the international takeover market, which justifies adjustment from the Dutch interests in the global takeover market;]] [[Whereas each measure must take due account of the interests of all the stakeholders of a company, so that the open nature of the Dutch economy remains guaranteed and the measure is in accordance with European law;]] [[calls on the Government, with great speed, to prepare the proposal for the legal reflection period (option a from the cabinet letter of 20 May 2017) and to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u236	Finally, it will not be surprising that I continue to disagree with the Prime Minister on the role of pension funds. As I pointed out, pension funds invest 14% of their assets in the Netherlands, i.e. 200 billion, including, of course, AEX companies. I have difficulty with the role of the State, which wants to put pressure on employers and trade unions to encourage pension fund management to settle for less return. This is not the legal task of pension fund management.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that it is a good thing that for the first time in a long time we can talk again about limiting the power of shareholders. It's been different around here. I'm gonna use my minute to file three motions. The Chamber, heard the debate, considers that Dutch companies benefit from maintaining existing and creating new protection structures; calls on the Government, at European level, to press for this to be made possible in the Takeover Directive, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 75 (29826). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the current participation of stakeholders other than shareholders in a takeover is now insufficient;]] [[calls on the government to consult civil society organisations on the introduction and design of a social test on the impact of corporate takeovers on society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a result of the takeover of AkzoNobel and Unilever, complete business units are sold or independent;]] [[considers that the interests of workers in these situations cannot be adequately addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how employees can be more involved in the acquisition of a Dutch company than is currently the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-76]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u238	If my colleague from the SP is prepared to ride that European story out of his first motion, I am prepared to give a positive vote advice. The SP used to be not dirty from an alleyway, as it's called. Why do we always have to do everything in a European context? The market is still uneven. It's an uneven playing field! There is therefore no point in doing anything at European level. Is the spokesperson prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u239	I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Graus. If it's up to us, we'd rather do it on our own. The problem, of course, is that if it is not, the Minister should tell us that the readmission directive is now preventing us from introducing such measures. I can write down "lace on that and we'll do it anyway," but then I'm sure it won't work. I would prefer the Minister to work in Brussels to amend the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u240	We live in a parliamentary democracy. If we take it up together, we will get much more work done, with the government and unfortunately with the European Union as long as it still exists. If you are already losing yourself and are already making it dependant on the Minister, it is of course not going well. We control the government and we are co-legislators, but we also have to give orders. We must determine it here and not leave it to the Minister. That's where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u241	Certainly, but, as I know, the takeover directive makes it impossible at the moment to build up new protection structures. I may suggest something like that here in Parliament, but I am sure it will not work. In addition to the proposals we have made to make it easier to protect companies, to give employees more say and to test them, I would prefer to let the Minister go to Brussels as soon as possible to ensure that our companies are able to build up the structures that they do not now have or that they see coming to an end next year or the year after.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u242	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this debate has given us quite a bit of uncertainty, because we were able to define three of the four options as legally unsustainable and we went from one reflection period to two different ones. Let me deal with that. The period of reflection does not begin until it has been respected. That did not know in advance, but it does mean that the acquiring party is already 100% shareholder and that therefore there is actually no way back. Then it is not really a reflection period but rather a cuckoo period, in which the 100% shareholder is in a cuckoo nest with a driver who he really wants out? Why doesn't the reflection period take place after the public bid in itself? Then the shareholders can change their minds. An activist shareholder can also lead to a separate reflection period. Can a party that is a shareholder for 25 years suddenly become activist, so that the reflection period is invoked? The Minister said that alternatives to European law are not feasible. We are, of course, giving a direction to the cabinet in several motions today. That is why I would like to know why one is not legally sustainable and the other is not legally sustainable. Then there's the non-committality I mentioned earlier. In Het Financieele Dagblad, the minister indicated that a company must decide for itself what it does in that period of reflection. I think there should be an obligation to do so. That is why I would like to read a motion in the ten seconds I have left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to introduce a period of reflection in the event of a public bid on a company which would be anchored as a legal right for the management of the company;]] [[noting that the cabinet will discuss this reflection period with experts and stakeholders;]] [[Whereas the reason for introducing a reflection period lies in the desirability of allowing companies to go through a careful process involving all stakeholders of a possible acquisition and, if necessary, submitting an alternative strategy to shareholders;]] [[Whereas the period of reflection is to be introduced at the request of the organized business community and that an effort should be made to do so;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with experts and stakeholders in the legal reflection period, to include the conditionality that the reflection period is also used for its purpose, namely the careful involvement of all stakeholders and, if necessary, the presentation of an alternative strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bruins and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Chairman. Surprisingly enough, the debate is a little confused, both about the fact that the period of reflection does not begin until after the fact that there is a reality and about the fact that there is also a second reflection period. That second reflection period is going to play when an activist shareholder comes up with a proposal for a change of course or something like that. Honestly, I'm happy about that in a way. As I explained, we as GroenLinks are primarily concerned with preventing sudden changes in the course of events under threat from activist shareholders. We are eagerly looking forward to the bill. I think it's quite an achievement to legally anchor that well. It's a tough job for the minister or for his successor. Besides, I'd like to give you something. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to give the management of a company more space and time to assess a takeover or substantial adjustment of strategy proposed by shareholders on the effects for all stakeholders;]] [[Whereas the cabinet tends to create a statutory reflection period of one year;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in the drafting of the reflection period in a legislative proposal whether it can be made conditional on the establishment of long-term goals for socially responsible and sustainable business in the company's statutes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Paternotte and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that (hostile) takeovers can have a significant impact on the staff of a company, on our environment, on consumer prices and on society as a whole;]] [[noting that protection measures are therefore being discussed for Dutch companies in (hostile) takeovers;]] [[considers that the social interests of the Netherlands should be safeguarded;]] [[calls on the government to consider introducing a social test in the event of (hostile) takeovers of Dutch companies by foreign companies, taking into account the possible negative social consequences of these acquisitions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u245	Motion two reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that (hostile) takeovers can have a significant impact on the staff of a company and on society as a whole;]] [[noting that protection measures are therefore being discussed for Dutch companies in (hostile) takeovers;]] [[considers that protection measures cannot be introduced for Dutch companies, whereas Dutch companies do carry out (enemy) takeovers in other countries, with sometimes significant negative consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with industry that possible negative consequences for the citizens of the country in question should be taken into account in (hostile) takeovers abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u246	Mr. Chairman. I really hope that shareholders, investors, long-term investors and pension funds have not followed this debate, especially abroad, because I believe that this is creating a lot of uncertainty as to which measures are being introduced and which are not. In the end, it is those investors and shareholders who fund our companies and therefore create jobs. It is also them who are at risk. It seems a bit like the ownership in this country isn't worth that much to some parties. I also find it a little easy to talk about Elliott all the time. When it comes to AkzoNobel, of course, Tweedy, Browne, an investor who had been involved with the company for a long time, was also dissatisfied. So you can't just throw it at activist shareholders. My next point concerns the corporate governance code. In our view, it is true that the board can call in that six-month response time. In my view, it is not the case that judges take a different decision on this every time, as is evident from case law. Anyway, that will come in the future. Then I'll say something about the impact assessment. I'm glad that's going to happen anyway. As far as we are concerned, it is important to involve pension funds and investors, including abroad. We would prefer to have that looked at externally and independently, because we believe that this is better. We are also somewhat confused about the proposals now before us. Indeed, there seems to be two reflection periods. We would ask for a very good legal check to be made on this, because as far as we are concerned it is now a bit like legal spaghetti. Then there is my final remark. Action is often reaction. As a small country, we need investment. We certainly do not think we should go in the direction of protectionism. All kinds of measures that contribute to this will also call for reactions from other countries, and we as a small country are not served by them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Chairman. Certain forms of protectionism and pride, adjacent to chauvinism and patriotism, are not so bad at all. We are far too careful in that regard. I already called us "crazy henkie." I am referring to China as an example. It's really too crazy for words: they fill everything up with this cheap shit, but we all make high-quality stuff and we're still being obstructed. I welcome the fact that America is going to take action against this. I am not going to read any motions because I have already signed a number of important motions with Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA and with Mr Paternotte. Moreover, I am very pleased with the new composition of this committee, because I note that there is much more cooperation in the national interest. I am very happy about that, because I have missed it a little in recent years. I thank the new Members of Parliament for that. The preventive test, a wider range of measures of protection instruments and additional protection for food supplies and essential agricultural land are all included in the CDA's motions. I hope that the Minister will make a positive assessment of this, because it is about our national interest and the primary necessities of our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you very much. Finally, we are going to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Nijboer. The Minister has already indicated that he would like to suspend for 20 minutes afterwards. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u249	Mr. Chairman. I had two main points in my speech for which I had motions in mind. But colleagues had already drawn them up and I co-signed them. One is about the influence of employees. The other, from Mrs Van den Berg and colleagues, is about the social test. I supported both motions. I thank the Minister for underlining my words that speed is needed. We are not at the forefront of Europe when it comes to protecting our businesses. He also underlined my words about pension funds. Mr Van Rooijen and I disagree. I am pleased that the Minister is on the side of the PvdA, that more investment in pension funds is needed. In the first term, I forgot to ask one question, which I would like to ask now. This concerns the importance of short-term shareholders and long-term shareholders. The Minister's letter states that there are already possibilities in the Netherlands to introduce diversity into this. But in practice, it doesn't happen very much. Why does that happen so little? Why can it be done in other countries? Wouldn't it be desirable to make much more use of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u250	I shall suspend the sitting until 6.20 p.m., after which the Minister will reply in second time and comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u251	The next item is the reply by the Minister in the second term in the debate on the takeovers of Unilever and AkzoNobel. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me concentrate on the motions that have been tabled. In the motion-Van den Berg c.s. in piece No. 71 it is said that the government should draw up a proposal to allow a government commission to carry out a preventive test in attempts to unwelcome or hostile takeovers of companies in the vital infrastructure and of companies that are important for the economy and employment. But companies are all important for the economy and employment. It seems very difficult to say that you are important to the economy and employment, and you are not. This would mean that a social test of such a takeover plan would have to be carried out every time. I think that is far too broad and that it is not legally sustainable to do so either. It would be very bad for the economy and employment, because then there would really be an unnecessary and large threshold for foreign companies to be interested in investing in the Netherlands. So I have no choice but to vote against this motion. It is unwise to do what is proposed in this motion to the Chamber. I advise against this motion. In the motion-Van den Berg c.s. in piece No. 72 the government is being asked to examine a broader range of measures than I have now proposed. We are currently engaged in discussions with all stakeholders involved, all stakeholders. In addition to the proposal we are now putting forward, there are other options. In addition, it also deals with the accumulation of possibilities. I think it would be wise to conclude that and then look at what is legally possible and what is not possible and what is the government's view on this matter. So we are already trying to get a picture of that broader palette and the view of the Chamber is similar. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Van den Berg c.s. in piece No. 73 it is said that essential agricultural land and essential infrastructure works of art should be added to the list of vital sectors and products. The works of art in our country are all in the possession of governments. There's a single exception, like the tunnel under the Westerschelde. It is our property, but it is exploited by another. As I have already said on agricultural land, given the combination of the situation in the Netherlands and the European agricultural policy, there is no problem to be solved. But the Minister for Security and Justice is working on these vital sectors, investigates them and sends the Chamber a half-yearly progress letter. If this motion is adopted, I will put it to him that the view of the Chamber is that agricultural land and works of art should also be in the picture. Then he can examine what conclusion should be drawn from this and communicate it with the Chamber in the annual progress letter. If that is the intention of Mrs Van den Berg, and I think that is the case, I can leave the opinion on this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u253	I shall first give the floor to Mrs van den Berg as the first author of the motion, then to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u254	First of all, we're asking you to map it. You yourself mentioned the Westerschelde tunnel. There are also some provincial works of art that are not covered by the national road register. And as far as we could trace, the port of Rotterdam was mentioned, but the ports of Terneuzen, Vlissingen and Amsterdam were not on the list. That is why we would like to have taken stock of these essential infrastructure works and agricultural land.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u255	I do not see provinces as a risk factor, but I have already said that, should this motion be adopted, I will exchange the view of the Chamber with my colleague in the field of security and justice. I believe that what Mrs Van den Berg is asking for is feasible. We can look at that and then draw a conclusion on it in the context of the half-yearly progress report. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u256	The reason why I supported the motion is that either it is initially reported or it is necessary to add agricultural land and infrastructure works of art to the list and not to do so automatically. I would ask you not to automatically conclude that the Court also wants all kinds of agricultural land and infrastructure works to be added, but to first report on the need for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u257	I got that right. I think that is what Mrs van den Berg just said: it needs to be mapped out. With the explanation both have given to it, I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber once again. In his motion, Mr Van Rooijen has formulated a number of things which are largely in line with what is in our letter and what I have tried to put forward. He is asking us to work out the proposal with great speed and to send it to the Chamber. We just need to realize that we have a missionary cabinet. I intend to complete the stakeholder conversations, including the additions that have just been in the picture. I intend to examine all the legal aspects carefully and to have clarity. I also intend to examine how this can be done in the form of a legislative proposal; I think in the form of an amendment to the Civil Code. I intend to do all the preliminary work that we believe is necessary. It would be very nice if I came very far with that, so that my successor and the next cabinet could offer that in the form of a legislative proposal to the Council of State first and then to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u258	I thank the Minister for this explanation. Do I understand correctly that there is no need to waste any time in the missionary period, because we are going to continue to work quickly as the motion also asks? I put it this way, because we all know that PPG may be trying to take over Akzo again in the autumn. It would be good if in the autumn, not too late, we knew what was going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u259	I share the sense of urgency of Mr Van Rooijen and others. I am very motivated to keep the momentum going, and I intend to let that be an ongoing process. As far as I'm concerned, there will be no delay in the process. As long as I'm here, I'll work hard on it. I am happy to say that to Mr Van Rooijen. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 74, please. The motion in part No. 75 by Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Lee, in a European context, call on the government to make it possible for protection structures to continue to be used in the takeover directive. I do not think that the directive he mentions is relevant in this respect. In Germany, France and most other European countries there are no protection structures at all. Some have them to a limited extent, but this is especially true in the Netherlands. In other countries they have different arrangements and a different culture. It is not easy to get a lot of support for this in Europe. Moreover, I believe that the European directives offer hardly any legal space to achieve this. I have already said that I do not have any expectations of this at the moment. It's a long-term thing. I have to achieve results in the short term. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 75. In the motion in part No. 76 Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Lee expressed the view that the government should consult civil society organisations on the introduction and design of a social test on the consequences of corporate takeovers. I don't want a social test. If we introduce a social test, we come in an atmosphere of political assessments of corporate takeovers. I have already said that this is already the case in America to some extent in a kind of black box, where politically-colored people judge things that are beyond sight. It is really bad for our investment climate if all takeovers are subject to a social test by politics. I don't think we should. This is not in the interests of the Dutch economy and employment. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 76. In the motion in part No. 77 by Mr Hijink, co-signed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Lee, the Government is invited to examine ways of increasing employee participation. I think employee participation is important. There is already a lot and well arranged in different ways. In addition, we are now giving firms the opportunity to take the time to do so if participation and attention to the interests of workers are compromised. The proposal that we have presented to the Chamber does everything in its power. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 77. The motion in part No. 78 by Mr Paternotte and four co-signators, in consultation with experts and stakeholders, ask the Cabinet to include in the legal reflection period the conditionality that the reflection period is used usefully; I would like to sum up. That's exactly what I want. I have also tried to formulate that. If Mr Paternotte formulates the motion in a different way with the same intention, I will see it in support of the policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion. In the motion in part No. 79 by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Paternotte and Mr Nijboer, the cabinet is asked to examine, in the preparation of the reflection period, the condition that the long-term goals for socially responsible and sustainable business should also be laid down in the company's statutes. I believe that sustainability is of the utmost importance. Companies feel the same way. The corporate governance code is aimed at this. I do not think that the problem we need to solve now is a good opportunity to take further steps. I am also not motivated at the moment to take further steps in this respect, because I do not think it is necessary and certainly not in this context. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Öztürk also asked for a social test, but with different wordings. I have already said that, in my opinion, a social test is bad for the economy and employment. So I'm against that. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 80 betrayals. The motion in part No. 81 Mr Öztürk asked the government "to consult with the business community that possible negative consequences for the citizens of the country in question should be taken into account in (enemy) takeovers abroad." I note that what he is asking for here is in line with the policy that is being pursued on behalf of the cabinet by my colleague Ploumen. That means that this motion can be seen by me as a support for policy. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then I have a few points that I should be responding to. Mrs De Vries has given a number of qualifications, which I would like to take note of. It is clear that Mrs De Vries actually thinks that we are going a little too far, while a number of other spokesmen in the Chamber think that we should be able to go even further. Maybe the cabinet just found the right balance. That will then have to be demonstrated by the further development. Mr Nijboer asked whether the difference between long-term and short-term shareholders could no longer be taken into account. That possibility is already there. As a company, you can make a difference between long and short-term shareholders. You can give those long-term shareholders more rights than short-term shareholders. What has happened in Europe, in France, is that the French Government has said that long-term shareholders will have more rights anyway. That is where it is regulated by the government in the law. That's something I don't want to do. I think what we have done now, namely to make it possible for businesses, is fine. If companies use it, that's good. If they don't, it's their choice. I would not like to make a legal provision for this in France. I won't take that initiative anymore. That wouldn't be appropriate in my missionary period either. Mrs De Vries also asked: what about those activist shareholders you are talking about and can you suddenly become activist after 25 years as a shareholder? Yeah, you can. If someone is a shareholder for 25 years and suddenly, in a general meeting of shareholders, is going to put pressure on the board to make a strategic change of course, which is mainly aimed at representing the short-term interests of shareholders, thereby compromising the interests of other stakeholders and long-term value creation, then such action by an activist shareholder, which I believe, can be followed by an appropriate response. This could be the call for a period of reflection of up to one year, so that those other interests can be given the attention they deserve by the management of the company. So it is indeed, I confirm to Mrs De Vries that such a shareholder could also become an activist shareholder. Madam President, these were my reactions to the second term of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u260	I'll see if there are any outstanding questions. That's the case. I see Mr Paternotte and I see Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u261	For the nature of the reflection period, the Minister states that the motion I tabled is actually in line with what he himself wants. In Het Financieele Dagblad of 20 May there is an interview with the minister entitled "They have to decide for themselves what to do during that reflection period." The Minister will also be asked what guarantees he will provide to ensure that this period of reflection is not abused to rest on the laurels. He replied that there would be no obligations. I am very happy to hear the Minister say: I do want these obligations. But is it true that what was in Het Financieele Dagblad on 20 May is not quite the correct representation of the Minister's intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u262	It is the correct representation of The Financial Daily............................................................................................................................................................................................ I speak to many people. My people speak to many people. We'll talk about that. We have also looked at the legal framework. In the end, I came to the conclusion as I put it in the Chamber today. That is in line with what Mr Paternotte said in his motion. This is not a blackbird of mine towards The Financial Daily, but moving insight into me on the basis of the preliminary work I have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u263	Moving insight is always good. This is also reflected in the fact that there are a number of changes to the letter. The Minister said that there would be two kinds of reflection period: one in the case of shareholder activism, one after the bid. Is the Minister prepared to explain these two different forms in a letter to the Chamber? In the original letter only one form was mentioned. This is new information for all Members of Parliament and I hear from several spokesmen that that confuses them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u264	In any case, I am pleased that I have had this opportunity to make it clear to the Chamber. This is a one-year reflection period which can be applied in two situations. One situation begins when an offer has been made. After that, that time starts to run for a maximum of one year. The other situation is that that period of one year can also start as soon as a shareholder acts as an activist. So I have been able to explain it now, but I will see what next opportunity I can communicate with the Chamber in writing and I can work on this point again. If there's that need in the Chamber, I'd be happy to meet it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u265	The Minister now says that the deadline will run after the bid has been complied with. Earlier in the debate he said: after the takeover. It's getting even more unclear to me now. What does he mean now? After the take-over is after the take-over. Has the bid been kept after the takeover, or is it another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u266	No, it's the same thing. At some point, the process that a company wants to take over begins. After a maximum of 12 weeks, we need a bid message. Then there is a period of up to ten weeks, in which there must be a performance. A takeover took place at the time. Then you can run that period of a year. As a result of that one-year period, you reach two things. First of all, you achieve that the other interests get the attention they deserve. Secondly, there is a preventive effect, in the sense that it is not a hostile approach but a friendly approach, so that during the "take-over game" you can give the attention they deserve to all the interests that are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u267	"After the takeover" means, in this case, that there may also be no takeover in that year or an acquisition that is also in the interest of management, supervisory directors and all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u268	I want to make no mistake about it: we do not have the opportunity to prevent a takeover. We can't. With this period of reflection, we want to ensure that all the interests that are there, I have already formulated them several times; Mr Van Rooijen can also dream of them when they are taken over and get the attention they deserve. If that hasn't happened in advance, then it has to be done afterwards. This may take up to a year. The fact that you are going to do so and can take up to a year to do so has a second effect, namely that it has a preventive effect. That is, given the legal framework laid down by the European directives, what we can do at most on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u269	I understand, therefore, that if the preventive effect has not occurred, in other words, all these steps in the takeover will continue, albeit there will be a waiting period of one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u270	I confirm that it is not the case that with this proposal we can block a one-year reflection period from taking over. We can achieve that all the interests they deserve are given the attention they deserve and it is a preventive effect. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u271	I thank the Minister for his reply and for his commitment. I still have a point of a household nature. When will the committee be invited to the newly converted orangery at the Court of Twente? I hear all kinds of stories about wild parties with the government, but we're the people at the front, right? When are we welcome in this summer recess at the vegetarian barbecue with the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u272	The last wild feast was that the cabinet had gathered in a suitable space in the vicinity of my home. The cabinet also came to my house to have a cup of coffee. That was the wild party. I do not know what Mr Graus means by wild parties. If Mr. Graus is in Twente, he is always a welcome guest with me. I'd like to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u273	Well, well, well. Mr. Van der Lee, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u274	I'd like to ask one more question to clarify something. The minister's working on some kind of anti-sprinkle drug, just to mention it. It is not clear to me who runs the actual management of the company in the reflection period after the performance. The takeover is a fact and the bidder is the owner. At the same time, the management of the target company still has a number of possibilities. Who's the boss in that year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u275	The board that's there. Of course, it is not the case that that administration can be thrown aside and then done what one wants. In that year, the management of the target company will do the things that are needed. There are rules for exactly how the staff has been filled out. We can pay attention to this in the further development. This is not meant to block the takeover or to throw people out of the board or put them in. The issue is that attention should be paid to other stakeholders and to long-term value creation. That is what we are trying to do, and that is what we are trying to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u276	It is very good that the Minister says that, because then it has a bit more teeth than it seemed to have. If the senior management of the target company remains in charge for a year, this is a fairly significant means of deterring locusts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u277	I just formulated it my way. We do not want this proposal to bring people into or out of the management of the target company. The point is that we are achieving something material; I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u278	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-9.u279	There will be a vote on the motions next Tuesday.
