ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the CPB report on the consequences of the European Central Bank's buy-back policy. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time shall be three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	"We will do everything we can to save the euro, and believe me: it will be enough." Those were the legendary words of ECB President Mario Draghi in the heyday of the crisis. He started a buy-back programme in which 80 billion per month is now that 60 billion per month was pumped into the economy, in a way that we do not think is the right one. The Central Planning Bureau published a disturbing report last summer, stating that the euro crisis can be revived. So the question is whether Draghi will really do anything to save the euro. He stated, when he was here in the Lower House, that he saw no signs of bubbles as a result of the flow of liquidity that his central bank pours over the euro area. At best, it can be seen with the rising house prices of commercial real estate. Not only for commercial real estate, but also for our housing market, it is disastrous what is happening. That's a bubble, I'll tell the Minister. Pensioners are also reduced on their pensions and have to rely on poor living conditions. In his comments on the CPB report we received yesterday, the Minister merely replied that the economic situation in the euro area has improved. The strong recovery contributes to a more favourable starting position for the euro area, with a view to reducing its broad monetary policy. However, the Minister is ignoring the structural problem of the euro area and monetary policy at the moment, which mainly benefit banks, multinationals and wealthy people from the ECB's policy. The buy-back programme did not pump money into the economy, as the ECB would like to suggest, but created only more demand for financial products. So investments and prices in the economy didn't rise and financial markets did. The role of central bankers should be to create financial stability, not to throw a wild party in which everyone goes crazy and extra bottles of booze are dragged instead of being taken away. Everyone, including the ECB, wants to end the buy-back policy. Shrinking will cause unrest, with the risk that rates will mop up and spending will fall. Such a shock can only happen in an economy in which inflation and growth are high enough to take a hit. That was the aim of the buy-back policy. It's some sort of Seroxat. The pills don't work against depression, but when you use them, you get very depressed. Does the Minister believe that inflation and growth in the euro area are at present high enough to bring it down? The SP would like the ECB to stop immediately with the current buy-back programme and turn it into a way of expanding money that will benefit the real economy. This can be done directly to governments through monetary financing, so that they can invest directly. Or it could be transferred to Europeans. Is the Minister prepared to argue for this at European level so that, while there is still a quantitative expansion programme, it is not a buy-back programme of debts and the financial world, but something that the Europeans themselves are aware of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Pensioners are the victims of ECB policy. In short and well, we advise the ECB to stop buying up immediately. The CPB report "Towards normal monetary policy" makes it clear that the phasing-out is not without bumps and that the phasing-out of the ECB's extreme monetary policy is in many respects a thriller. But the most important new conclusion we draw from the report is that the whole process of phasing out and reducing the balance will last for many years to come. I quote from the report: "The current programme runs until the end of 2017 (...) but can be extended or extended if inflation has not yet reached the desired path. In the event of a favourable development of inflation, net purchases may be further reduced (tapering) or completely discontinued in 2018. Once the net purchases have stopped, the bonds that reach the end of their maturity will still be replaced." The CPB explicitly mentions the possibility of the ECB's buy-back programme being extended or even extended after December of this year. The CPB goes even further in sketching the progress of the monetary neverending story. I quote again: 'Destruction will not start until inflation meets the ECB target'. Well, Mr. Chairman, that makes it all very volatile. Low inflation can easily persist for a long time, regardless of economic conditions. I would just like to draw attention to the possibility of lower oil prices for a longer time, which reduces core inflation. In any case, may I assume that the Minister also has little appreciation for this very specific policy conclusion of the CPB? Or does he share that conclusion? I understand that the phasing-out of extreme policies will take many years, but at the same time we note that every step in the phasing-out process is already explained by the CPB in advance. I quote: 'The announcement of the exact course of the phasing-out will also include surprises for the markets. After all, the settlement of the bond portfolio will take years, with no telling how the economic situation and the financial situation will develop. Such developments will make it necessary to change the phasing-out timetable unexpectedly." Does the Minister share my group's observation that this report seems to make the spirits ripe for even more or longer monetary stimulus? If not, why not? Finally, Mr President. We read yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad: the risk of discounts remains despite high returns. In 2016, the level of coverage of pension funds by the bank was barely matched by an average return of as much as 10%, I repeat: 10%, only because the effect of the fall in interest rates on the present value of the liabilities is 9%, the accounting calculation of the liabilities over the same period. That's not prudent. It's an accounting noose. That is why 50PLUS has come up with a proposal to put an end to this. We will continue to oppose the looming error of working with an interest rate of 1% for the next 60 years. At least, that is where the coverage rates and therefore the discounts are now calculated. The Dutch Bank says very cynically that even 10% returns do not help to improve coverage rates. No, it doesn't help accounting, but it actually helps us, because the pension funds are wealthy. Capital doubled to 1,400 billion in the years after the crisis, with an average return of 7%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the ECB's kamikaze policy here today. The worst part is that this finance minister shouldn't like it. To every question we've asked him over the past few years, he said, "I'm not going over it." Just an hour ago. On my question: does the Minister of Finance think that the ECB is now also entitled to buy Greek government bonds? We all know what they are worth for EUR 100 billion, says this Minister of Finance: I am not going over it. This Minister of Finance plays Russian roulette with the ECB with our prosperity. The ECB has decided to go on a large-scale drive, because inflation had to go to 2%, if not willingly, if necessary. But the interest rate went to 0%, the money tap opened up and inflation didn't come from its place. In the meantime, the ECB has bought over 2,000 billion in bonds without looking at the quality. Anything that is second-class, you can turn it in to the ECB. In this respect, the ECB will be the world's largest bath bank. In the meantime, the ECB has bought 350 billion in French paper, 300 billion in Italian paper, 212 billion in Spanish paper, and it has even reached its 33% limit. What will the Minister do if the ECB raises its limit to 40% or 50%? Half of the euro area's sovereign debt will then be on the ECB's balance sheet. Does the Minister say again, "I'm not in charge of this?" The ECB's balance sheet has grown from 1,000 billion to 4,000 billion over a few years. Who's gonna pay for that? Who will be billed if countries or companies cannot repay this? Right, the taxpayer. The buy-back policy may be good for Italy, good for investors, good for Goldman Sachs, but bad for the Netherlands. It is good for Italy because this huge debt mountain of 2,500 billion can then continue to be financed. It's good for investors, companies and banks because they can get rid of their shit. Finally a buyer for those junk bonds! But it is bad for the Netherlands, because our pensions evaporate and the credit bubbles are blown up again. This minister and, worse still, this president of the eurogroup is standing there, looking at it and saying: I am not going over it. Everyone sees that Russian roulette is being played with our prosperity, and the Minister must not like it. Even Klaas Knot of DNB sputters against and says: this can't be, this can't be. But he maketh it happen: he is cast away by the weak brethren of the south. What if this buy-back program is phased out, if the ECB no longer presents itself as a lender or a last resort, as a buyer of these mess bonds? Then what are these worth and who buys them? Mr President, I predict that if the buy-in programme is ever completed, interest rates in southern Europe will go through the roof. Then the debt becomes unsustainable, Italian bonds become worthless and we can come back up with billions and emergency funds. As Italy default, we get Greece squared. What do I say, to the power of ten? The entire QE program is a postponement of execution. It is not for nothing that we want to transform the ESM into an EMF, that we are talking about Eurobonds, a euro minister and a euro budget. All signals that we will soon be able to support Italy with billions of dollars. The minister is standing by and isn't about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'm out of time, I see. So I'm saving the rest for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	That's good. Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. You can almost dream of Mr. Van Dijck's bouncers, but we'll hold them back in second term. The European Central Bank is an independent central bank, independent of the politics and any motions that may be tabled in the Lower House, but fortunately also of motions that would be tabled by Cypriots, Italians or Spanish colleagues. That is a great good thing and it also fits within the Dutch monetary tradition. You can also see that central banks throughout the world, whether you look at Japan, England or America, have pursued a very broad monetary policy as a result of the crisis. In the view of the PvdA and others, this has helped to bring the crisis to an end, but there are risks associated with a broad monetary policy. Previous speakers focused on this. The question is whether you should blame the central banks for this, or whether governments also have a role to play in making the economy healthy again. This cabinet, the last cabinet that is still there, has taken a number of measures to make the Dutch economy healthy again. Fortunately, the Dutch economy is much better. There is also a great deal to be done with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Nijboer says that this policy has helped to improve the economy. What is the European Central Bank's objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	An inflation rate of up to 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	The question is therefore whether it was the intention of the PvdA that the European Central Bank should help the economy. Or was it intended that the ECB should pursue a "close to zero" inflation that should be inflation according to the Treaty on European Union and price stability, price stability?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yes, and financial stability, of course. We had an immense financial crisis. Of course, there was also the pressure from the euro. We have had debates here on Greece which have gone a long way. This has been very intensive in recent years. The policies of the European Central Bank and of central banks have helped to achieve stability in the financial world. It was badly needed, especially after the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	We are seeing a kind of blur of the mandate that is normally blamed on me. The mandate is really about price stability and financial stability. But it is not about helping countries. Does the European Central Bank, in the view of the Labour Party, intend to give air to certain countries with these measures? Is that one of the objectives? Or is it purely monetary what the ECB is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	No, it's price stability. Mr Omtzigt is right about that. Financial stability is directly linked to the economic fragility of the euro area. That is what the ECB has done, as have all the central banks in the world. Of course, the US central bank has a broader policy objective than the European Central Bank. But this is what all the central banks in the world have done. It makes sense that they did so in a financial crisis. And it's a good thing they did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'd still like another supplement. I hear Mr Hijboer saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	Nijboer. I hear Mr Nijboer say that the measures taken by the cabinet have contributed to better economic growth. Not many economists would agree with you. Can you tell me where greater burden on citizens and businesses leads to more investment space and higher economic growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	I didn't say they were helping economic growth. I said they help reduce financial instability and prevent the collapse of the economy. There really was something going on. We've had a financial crisis. There has been enormous unemployment in recent years. There was no confidence in the financial sector. Colleagues said: whatever it takes, hold that euro. Look at what would have happened if the euro had fallen apart. The European Central Bank has also played a role in this. It was not about 1% more or less economic growth; that is not my point at all. The destabilizing effect has been prevented. That's, I think, well worked out. That's what you need to establish. The euro still exists and stands firmly in its shoes. It's not gonna happen on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	But it is true that the measures taken were based in particular on budgetary discipline. That wasn't the problem, was it? The problem was indeed that there were banks who, instead of doing the things they had to do, were going to do things that were just too speculative. This has led to the banking crisis. At that time, the cabinet unilaterally stepped up its efforts to improve the budgetary position. In particular, people made sure that they didn't spend more than they came in. And more importantly, they were going to ask companies and citizens to pay even more. Then that wasn't the problem, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	Well, public finances have been a serious problem in recent years. Surely you will not blame me for saying that something must happen if you have a 6% budget deficit? This was also the case in more countries. Besides, we've done more than that. The Banking Union has been formed and there is European banking supervision. It's really immense. Buffers are elevated. There are still too few buffers; I will say something about that in a moment. So more had to be done. But public finances were also really out of control in the Netherlands. It had to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	There was broad consensus on that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	In my opinion, the budget deficit in 2008 was around 45%. That's been going on in the last few years...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	The government debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	The government debt was around 45%. So I don't understand why that was a problem back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	'Cause it would have gone up to 90% if we didn't do anything. I see Mrs Leijten now. I'll look at her first. Let me just say: from the SP to the SGP, from left to right, electoral programmes and transfers recognized that measures had to be taken. Well, except for the PVV. The size varied: one did 10 billion, the other 16 billion. But it's not like you'd be very exceptional here, but your party didn't even exist at the time. People said, "There's nothing wrong, we can keep everything going and then things are going well." The SP didn't think so either at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is better off now, but that doesn't mean nothing has to happen. I would also like to draw your attention to this, because it is very easy to point the finger at the ECB, but the Netherlands still has a largely debt-funded economy. That makes her sensitive to financial crises. The Dutch banking sector is healthier but still far from enjoying sufficient buffers in Europe. The housing market is still under pressure. There is a task for the upcoming cabinet: to do something about the crooked balance sheets, with equity and debt, to deal with debt financing, which is really too big in the Dutch economy and which therefore also makes far too sensitive to international shocks, to continue to tackle the financial sector and to make it healthy we are halfway through, we are not yet there, and finally, perhaps most importantly, to achieve a fair distribution of profits and prosperity in Europe as well as in the Netherlands. So not all large companies that have big pots on the balance sheet and employees and pensioners who do not benefit, but make everyone contribute to prosperity. This requires public policy; it is not self-evident. We can't blame a central bank for that. Politicians must do so themselves, including in the Netherlands. I hope, I hope, that the cabinet will tackle these fundamental problems very quickly. The first signs are not so good, because it is now about reducing capital taxes and some small tax things. A flat tax here, a small shift. I hope it does not become a big shift! Mr President, I respond to Mr Omtzigt who says: small things?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah, but you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	But if the top rate goes from 52% to 45%, inequality becomes much greater. Then it's all going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Nijboer, you may only respond to comments made in the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Overzigt? Your point will come back later? Okay. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	We are all eagerly looking forward to the coalition agreement. In front of all those leaked plans that look beautiful, there will still be an account. But we'll see as soon as it's presented. I have a question about the ECB's buy-back programme. Of course, the ECB is politically independent, but at the same time, politics can decide on the desirability or undesirableness of certain policies. Now we have a buy-back programme that is good for businesses and for the financial markets, but which the people of Europe do not really notice very much about. We see that incomes are not rising and poverty is not falling. Employment is rising a little in our country, but it is not so bright across the board, especially in southern Europe. Do you think that the current buying-in policy, the quantitative extension that is currently taking place, is the right form to apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	I am not going to say here as a politician what monetary policy should be pursued. I do agree with Mrs Leijten that there are redistribution effects of monetary policy and that it can also lead to financial bubbles on, for example, the stock market and the housing market so that the distribution can be distorted. At the same time, it often doesn't end well for the lowest incomes when you get deflation. There are no further concerns about this, but the risk of deflation was one of the reasons for this policy. It is therefore not entirely unambiguous to say. But I agree with Mrs Leijten: I see a number of risks. That is why I call on governments, and the Dutch government in particular, because this is the Dutch Parliament, to do something about it. I have also mentioned inequality. I have just mentioned the threat of bubbles at the housing market. It requires national policies to prevent it from going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	Sure. If the ECB were to allow monetary expansion for governments, we could do the same. It is precisely because of the rules of the euro that we have had to cut back. You were right: all parties said in 2010 and 2012 that choices had to be made. We, too, made choices. The question of whether the right choices have been made in recent years has been debated enough. The question is, of course, whether it can be explained that we have had to intervene hard in public services. We still feel that pain every day, just look at the waiting lists in juvenile care. Care settings even stop. There are even waiting lists for palliative care, in case you die. There are problems in the classroom and so on. This has to do with less public investment, but at the same time we can see that companies are actually on the infusion of the ECB. That's not a pretty picture, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	I share some of Mrs Leijten's concerns. But not that this leads to the conclusion that the ECB is to blame for this. That was my whole argument. Those are national choices. I agree with her that more investment in health care is needed. I agree with her that its own risk should be eliminated in order to ensure accessibility. I agree with her that the Netherlands should have a fairer tax system, but the ECB has nothing to do with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. We are not dealing with ECB policy. The ECB shall be independent. For the Minister of Finance, also President of the Eurogroup, it will not be easy to answer our questions. He's a powerful man in Europe, but he's not Draghi's boss. However, I think it is good that we are talking here today about the ECB and its policy, which is the reason for the CPB report. I think Draghi has, out of pure necessity, done a great deal of political work. When Draghi was visiting the Chamber just before the summer, I was the only one who could understand his unconventional policy. But I did not do that because I am so satisfied with the role played by the ECB in recent years. It is really incredible that an unelected official as a central banker had to save the euro and pull the European economy out of the deepest crisis since the 1930s. The CPB states in its report that the main role of the ECB was forced to play, because budgetary policy at European level was not feasible. Is it not true that countries and finance ministers, in Germany and the Netherlands, were mainly concerned with strict budgetary rules, which meant that there was no room for additional expenditure and investment, so that an economic impetus had to come from monetary policy? Looking back, is this not a testament to the inability of countries to take joint action to combat the economic crisis, which increased unemployment to a high level, increased people's purchasing power and poverty? This is all the more worrying, because fiscal policy could have had a direct impact on the real economy and monetary policy only works indirectly through financial markets. As a result, monetary policy is also a lot less effective and has a lot of risks in it. Think, for example, of the negative effects on the position of pension funds. Nevertheless, the CPB claims that the policy has worked. Growth has increased and inflation has increased slightly. This is based on research that you can question, on simulations and literature research. How does the Minister assess this CPB investigation and its judgment? Another question is: what if we asked the CPB to do the same kind of study, with simulations, but now of a budgetary stimulus for the European economy? Doesn't the Minister think, like me, that that would have been more effective than monetary policy? Finally. The CPB states that in all the considerations for the future of EMU and the balancing of risks and dangers of bad behaviour, we do not escape to share more risks as countries. If there is no political will to do so, the CPB states, the ECB will be looked at again in the event of an emergency. I'd like a reaction, because I actually think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	I find it a little hypocritical, but I can't really blame Mr Snels, because he wasn't in the Chamber at the time. In 2012 GroenLinks and Minister De Jager got out of their way to pull the sprint to that 3%. Now you say, Mr Snels, that we should not have done so. We were, I believe, the only party in this house to say: we have nothing to do with that 3%, because that is simply disastrous for our economy and employment. You then drew that sprint and now you say, in retrospect, that we should not have done so. Do I hear a mea culpa from GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	Let's get to the facts. The PVV is now taking a sprint at itself, but we also found the 3% rule something we said about my dead body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	That is a fair question from Mr Van Dijck. I wasn't in the room yet. I wasn't involved with GroenLinks at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	I wash my hands in innocence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	The Minister's gonna sit all the way in front of it. We're all ears!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'm going in. One of the major problems that we had in the European economy and which we have with the way in which monetary policy has now been shaped is that we are dependent on financial markets. What did we see when the PVV ran away from the Catshuis? At that time, financial markets panicked and interest rates increased. At that point, there was a need to intervene. I object to the fact that we in our European economy are still dependent on financial markets and that we politicians themselves do not decide what the policy should be like. I thought it was right to intervene at that time, and that was because of the PVV. Looking back you might ask yourself if that size was necessary when the rest had returned. In total, we have cut back on some 50 billion and increased the burden. Hasn't that been too much? If we asked the CPB to investigate that... If it had been a tad less in the Netherlands we should also have looked at the whole European economy, which would have been better for direct economic development than the ECB's monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	Just for the history books. It was precisely the Koenders' agreement that we ran away from. We knew: if we implement the Koenders agreement, that means 150 000 extra unemployed and it costs 6% economic growth. That's even calculated by the CPB. In other words, that Koenders' agreement was bad for the economy and bad for jobs. Again, we are used to it as PVV, left or right, we always get blamed, but you have to stick to the facts. That coalition agreement was precisely something we did not want to sign. GroenLinks did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you. Short response if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	At that time it was necessary to regain confidence in a Dutch policy that could make decisions, because that was not the case at the time. Furthermore, the public debt was much higher then. The interest rate went up. That meant that our interest rates on sovereign debt also went up sharply. So it was necessary to intervene at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. I have heard the following comparison when the ECB encouraged the money press to stimulate the economy and inflation: the ECB used a cannon to drive a mosquito out of the bedroom. The risk of real deflation was low, debt countries felt less pressure to reform and thanks to Dutch austerity pension funds suffer from extra low interest rates. The fact that we are critical of the ECB's broad monetary policy from the VVD is not new. At the start of the buy-back programme, we took the unconventional step to react critically to this from the Chamber. At the same time, we also attach great importance to the independence of the ECB. In any case, I would like to say to the President of the Netherlands Bank today that ECB policy was the wrong answer to a non-existent problem. I very much agree with him. The CPB now also writes it in the report. GDP in Europe was growing even before the start of ECB policy in 2015. The policy of quantitative expansion will help, but we can do without it. The CPB report on how the path to normal monetary policy might look is very much what we agree with. For example, it says: "Strengthening the economy and improving public finances are helping governments to get through the phasing-out phase of unconventional monetary policy." That is exactly what we are arguing for. If the ECB pursues less far-reaching monetary policy, Member States' fiscal policies will become even more important. In response to the CPB report, therefore, the VVD believes that proposals made in the coming years to improve EMU should always be against this starting point. How do they help the euro area to better enforce the budgetary rules and force countries that still have to reform to finally take the necessary measures? The Minister has already made some very sensible proposals in recent months, just a little more sensible than the CPB report, which talks about greater risk sharing and the introduction of European bonds. The CPB also notes that the completion of the Banking Union makes the euro area more stable. Fortunately, the route is already ready. That's the famous road map. But now it is important that those countries which benefit most from such a banking union, and which lie a little further south in Europe, should also fulfil the conditions for such a union. Those terms are known. Think of risk reduction. Think of an end to the zero-weighting of the risk of government bonds on bank balance sheets. To what extent does the Minister see the opportunity, supported by this analysis of the CPB, to strengthen this position in Europe? Mr President, I will conclude. The main message of the CPB is: the Dutch public finances and our banking system are good; we can have a hit and we do not need the ECB for that. Conversely, countries to which this does not apply have a problem. Now that the economy is getting better, the VVD hopes that the ECB's money-press programme will be quickly phased out and that the limits will not be exceeded. It is therefore important that all countries make their public finances and economies as robust as here in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr President, thank you. If I have read the CPB report correctly, the results of ECB policy seem to be very favourable. Several studies, according to that report, show a positive effect of between 1.1% and 1.5% of GDP. There is hardly any extra inflation and there is low interest rates, which is good for entrepreneurs and property owners. The question is, what happens if we stop this buy-back program? Actually, no one knows. No one has an answer to that, not even the Minister. I already asked you this morning. That's because we've never done this before. It is important, however, that we do this gradually and predictablely. We may also be able to see how the United States, which stopped buying up in 2014, continues to do so at the moment. I come back to the most important point of my contribution, which is about pension funds. Due to low interest rates, future pension liabilities will gain weight and the funds will theoretically grow too slowly to meet all obligations. This is because pension funds have to count on risk-free market rates, while large pension funds, ABP and PFZW, showed long-term returns. Over the last nine years this has been an average rate of return of around 7%. Even the 20% negative return they achieved in 2008 has been broadly corrected in subsequent years. However, the current coverage rate is currently around 102%. That's too little to index. Mr. Chairman. That's theory. The practice is different. Is it true, as I ask the Minister, that the total pension assets in the period from 2008 to 2016 have grown from 700 billion to 1,300 billion or 1,400 billion, as my colleague Martin van Rooijen said? How can it be that more than ever pensions have not been adjusted for inflation and even pensions have been reduced during this period? Yesterday an article on the high return of pension funds was published in the FD: 10.2% in 2016. In other words, the pension pots are better filled than ever, but at the same time there is a risk that inflation will not be corrected again in the coming years. That's a strange situation. The pension system looks a little bit like Dagobert Duck's money warehouse: it's full of money, but Dagobert claims all the time that there will be no money next week. I'd like a response from the Minister. According to the financial supervisory framework, there is always no money for indexing pensions. Perhaps there is an important looming error in the financial supervisory framework, especially in the accounting rate. Is it not systematically too low, because only risk-free interest rates can count on government bonds? Of course, pension funds also invest in other forms, namely shares and other securities. Why isn't real returns included? Isn't the low accounting rate of the financial supervisory framework a form of too careful dealing with money, some sort of Calvinist self-inflicted chastisement? The DENK Group would like to see a decoupling of the ECB's policy interest rate and the accounting rate applied in the Netherlands. What possibilities does the Minister see for such a decoupling? The fictional return of box 3 of income tax is also recently better adapted to the real return that can be achieved. This can also be done with the calculation rate. I am considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks also to the authors of the report. The more important the discussion, the army of the House of Representatives, but colleagues have already referred to it: although opinions on ECB policy differ, it is clear that this policy can have a very significant impact on the Dutch economy and on a number of countries in southern Europe, especially in the event of a rapid increase. It is about something, because, as the government says, more risk sharing is what a number of parties here want us to do about past debt. Well, the government debt in the Netherlands is much lower than in other countries and there is a moral danger of passing debts on to other countries. It is our mission to prevent that at all times. Nor do we let one province pass the blame on another province. So let us not do that in Europe. The CPB report is not so much a report with a research question as it contains more an economic description of what has happened and predictions of what can happen. There are some interesting findings in it. The CPB concludes that monetary policy is too broad for normal economic situations in which we sit. That's kind of the understatement of the millennium, I'd say. The CPB also shows quite convincingly that not only the purchase of hundreds of billions of government bonds entails major risks, but also the reduction of that portfolio. That leads to many more complications. I would add that these complications are, of course, greater as the buying-in policy increases. The CPB warns against interest shocks, which could cause countries with high public debt problems. Italy is explicitly appointed. Then we are at the most interesting point: the analysis that there may be more risks in EMU. So that leads to that perverse stimulus. After all, you will be saved with the support of another EMU country if your own debts become too high. That's the way the CDA doesn't want to go. That is why the CDA still shares the sensible government position that we can better ensure that countries have their budgets in order in the front than is repaired at the back when things go wrong and that this should not bring with it any perverse incentives. What framework conditions are necessary for this in the plans put forward, among others, by Macron, Juncker and others in Europe? However, the CPB pretends that we do not already share risks. Of course we do at the ECB. A piece of government bonds is bought together, but the individual national banks buy large quantities of government bonds. Through TARGET2, the Netherlands still owes more than 100 billion, mainly from countries like Italy. If things go wrong, a country goes out of the euro............................................................................................................................................................ Are there any plans being made to reverse this? And if things go wrong, should the European Central Bank always vote against restructuring? If there is restructuring in a country, does that mean monetary financing, which under any circumstances is prohibited by the ECB? In other words, the ECB itself can never agree to a restructuring as a bond holder under the Treaty? Let me get this straight. On the debt limit of a third, I ask whether the government shares the view that if the ECB buys more than one third of a country's sovereign debt, the ECB goes beyond its mandate because it then gets a total blocking vote in any debt restructuring and the ECB, if it votes no, that is what I said in my previous question about spagate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your leniency, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes, after which the Minister will answer the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u60	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I'll think about where I'll start. Maybe we'll do the CPB the most right thing if we start with that subject. That is the subject of today's debate: the CPB report on the effects of monetary policy and its elements. Mr Snels said that monetary policy is something you can think of or not, if you respect the independence of the ECB, but that monetary policy may have been used so strongly because governments have not done what they could have done. Moreover, Mr Snels immediately narrows this down to fiscal policy and fiscal fiscal stimulus. I think that is a rather narrow approach, because the government can do much more to fight crises, to tackle the causes of a crisis and to get the economy back on its feet, but in itself it is his intention that we should perhaps talk more about what we have done, should have done or not done well, perhaps more meaningful than talking about what others have done too much. This is certainly true because the Netherlands has always said more than other countries that the ECB must be able to do its work independently. That's what I'm gonna keep doing today. In order to continue on the subject of what we ourselves should have done better or differently, Mr Snels has sparked the debate on the budgetary policy pursued. He asked whether a fiscal stimulus would not have been more effective. That's not entirely a theoretical question. That budgetary impetus was there at the start of the crisis. At that time it was even agreed at global level, by the G20: we are all going to boost the budget. The Netherlands also did so, at the end of the Balkenende IV cabinet in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis, in the hope and expectation that demand would again attract very quickly. That's what happened. In the course of 2010 and 2011 the economy actually went well again, which attracted then, but then there was a second crisis. In between, of course, Europe had not tackled its banking sector, which was actually the fundamental problem in that first crisis. A lot of public money was put into banks, but the problem was not tackled fundamentally. There were many structural causes in the euro area, such as overdrafting of households and businesses, blown-up housing markets and bloated mortgage debts. This happened not only in the Netherlands but also in Spain and Greece and even outside the euro area, in Denmark and several years before in Sweden. These problems were all still to be addressed. This explained a whole second debt crisis, euro crisis or whatever you want to call it in the euro area. So only fiscal policy was not the answer to that. That fiscal, budgetary impulse has been there and has also run into its limits. State debt blew up, not just in the Netherlands. The numbers in that period for the Netherlands were mentioned, but in other countries it was much more. Some countries already had a large public debt at the start and therefore also had less strain. Some countries in Europe just lost their access to financial markets and just really ran out of money. Where were they supposed to get the money for fiscal stimulus policies? That room wasn't there at all. So we have to keep the broader story and talk about the broader agenda of what was going on at the time and what needed to happen. Having said all that, Mr Snels is right; if we think that Mario Draghi has done too much, if we think that he has done so, we must realise that he has done so only because there was an acute, very serious crisis and governments were not acting or could not act, and did not have the resources that they might have had to prepare in advance. There are two rather political sentences in the section of the CPB, which I am now switching to. One sentence is that it may prove that more risk sharing in EMU is necessary in order to survive as a currency union. I've put a line under "may turn out." The second sentence, which we need to talk about, is that if there is no political will to take more risks, the ECB will be looked at again in an emergency. Here is a big gap in this reasoning, in my opinion a lack. I never like to disagree with the CPB, but when the CPB moves into political territory, politics must move into the area of the CPB, which is inevitable. There is no point in saying that the only way to survive a monetary union is to share risks to a large extent or to an ever greater extent. The intermediate part, of course, is: what is the responsibility and whose responsibility is it to reduce risks in the banks, the real economy, public finances? In the Netherlands, and this is not so much different in the United States, the primary responsibility lies with national governments, or with states in the US. In a currency union, you cannot draw all the risks in terms of budgets or saving banks and so on, which are having economic problems, into the public domain and then say: now we share the risk. Firstly, let us try to reduce the risks in advance. Make sure that banks are strong, that they are solid and that they can save themselves if there are problems. Make sure that there are no bubbles on the housing market, that we try to reduce debt mountains and that there are buffers to take blows; this applies to a household but also to the government as a state household. This is the first line of defence: to prevent and reduce risks in advance, and to ensure that you have sustainable economic development. The second line of defence is that if there is an economic shock then you are already much better able to cope with it.You have to consider whether the damage of that economic shock should be pulled all the way to the public service. Does this have to go entirely to the government? I say above all to the left-wing and progressive parties in this Chamber, where I feel very much at home: do not make that mistake, because the huge losses that private parties now have to accept in the market will suddenly become a government problem. This is immediately at the expense of public expenditure. What are the major public expenditures? The care, which Mrs Leijten always claims, or pensions or social security etc. So you really have to be careful that all kinds of private parties do not shuffle off their problems, their losses and their risks and say: here you have it, can we be saved for a while? This applies to private investors in government bonds and to private investors in the financial sector. That's my second line of defence: don't take all the risks, problems and losses to the government just to protect the real public interests. The third is, of course, what is effective policy? Risk sharing in a monetary union is aimed at a shock somewhere in a country, not in all countries. If that shock occurs in all countries, you have monetary policy and that works effectively in all countries. The real problem is if that occurs in some countries in the currency union. They will no longer have their own monetary policy at their disposal. How are we going to save it? Here too, the best preparation is at national level. The best way to make monetary policy more effective is for these countries to adapt to economic development at the level of the euro area average and preferably above it so that policy becomes more effective. If you immediately start what remains of risk sharing and say that you have to share risks because otherwise it will never work, then you skip all the other steps. I think this is a major shortcoming in this note, which ends with this definite political statement: if you do not want to share more risks, then the currency union will not survive. I'll put it the other way around. Unless the ECB goes full-fledged again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u62	This minister is putting on a little pink glasses. Of course we do not have to share risks if there are no risks, but there will always be risks, especially when you go with countries like Greece, Italy and Spain. They are not really known as the most decent countries. Then you're taking risks. If you want to survive with countries like that in a currency union, that simply means that you are the hare and that north billions can be transferred to the south. If such a country throws the ass against the crib, to put it in original Dutch,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yeah, I hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u64	...you can draw your wallet. Doesn't the Minister think he's a little naive when he says "let's avoid risks, then we don't have to share them"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u65	No, Mr. Chairman. I told you to fight, reduce and tackle risks first. And I think that Mr Van Dijck has always agreed with that so far. Then you have to make sure that they are worn by those who are accountable. For example, investors who have taken profits in the good years must also take their losses at the time of loss. You're either an investor or you're not. It is not the role of the government to always save banks and investors. So I built it up in layers and of course there are always risks left. There are also spillover effects, as they are called. If another euro area country finds itself in a major crisis, we can suffer from it. Most of the time, that country is still in the first place in order to put its affairs in order. If that country puts things in order, we are always prepared to finance that country temporarily. It's called an emergency program with emergency loans. That is not what the PVV is for, but if the conditions are right, we think that is acceptable. Then we will bring economic development back to that country and we will have dealt with the risks in the meantime. That should always be part of the deal. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u66	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes, but we are talking today about the ECB's QE programme. Does the Minister agree with me that the entire QE programme is counterproductive in countries like Italy? Because normally the capital market would pay Italy for this by asking for high interest rates, to which Italy must respond and reform. Now that stimulus's gone. Now you're gonna get Italy back on its feet. We all see it. Italy pays a reasonable interest rate of 2% or 3% and actually rolls through with that ridiculously high debt of 2,500 billion with the greatest ease while keeping that debt financially viable. Is that the incentive that should be based on a QE program or is that counterproductive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u68	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u69	That too is a bit different. Firstly, interest rates have been declining internationally since the 1980s. This is a completely different debate: what is the reason for this, is it structuralally, is it eternally so? Interest rates have been falling for over 30 years. They've been low for a long time. In this low climate, the ECB has the mandate and the mandate to keep inflation around 2%, and above all below 2%, but close to it. The ECB must therefore do so in a low-interest environment. The effect of ECB policy on interest rates is therefore only a small last piece on a total of long-term, decades-long, falling interest rates. To anyone who says that the low interest rates and their disadvantages are the ECB's fault, I say: sorry, but then you really need to look back a little further and a little longer. Then Italy. Which countries have benefited most from this policy? If you see this study, you can't say that Italy has benefited most from it right away. The interesting thing about this study is that it shows that the transmission of the advantage that the ECB creates with low interest rates, to the business that wants to invest, for example, is the best in the countries that have their business in order. The Netherlands has relatively healthy banks and has done a lot about it in recent years. Therefore, that advantage of QE in the Netherlands is well passed on via the transmission channel. According to this study, the Netherlands has a striking advantage of this policy. Mr Van Rooijen will now come up with the pension funds, and I will recognize that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u70	How exactly do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u71	This is almost a form of entrapment or a form of inkling. The Minister said that interest rates have been low for a long time. It's already low, there's an inflation target and that's why there's QE. The Netherlands Bank recently indicated in a report in June that the impact of QE policy is between 0.8 and 1.5. Well, you'll soon be talking about 100 billion in the total retirement fund. The Central Planning Bureau indicated in June that it is 1%. At low interest rates there is in any case a substantial effect of around 1%. The Minister talks about pensions. For the Dutch pension sector, at least this has worked out dramatically. The question to the Minister is therefore whether he thinks that the QE programme should not be brought down quickly. He said the build-up might be a little high after that. My supplementary question is then whether it is not time to stop building up quickly and therefore start phasing out to bring that interest rate to a more normal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u72	I didn't think I said that the build-up was too high or too fast, because I didn't say anything about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u73	If I have understood correctly, you have said to Mr Snels that this question can be asked afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u74	There are all sorts of views about it, but my wording was very careful. I have no idea. His statement was correct: regardless of this question, whether you think it was good or bad or whether it was too much, too fast or too big, what have governments actually failed or should they have done differently? Anyway, that's another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u75	And then my specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u76	The specific question raised by several of your colleagues is whether the programme should not be phased out. Strong lyrics have also been used, such as immediately, immediately cut down. I have no idea. That is really up to the independent monetary authority. Very well thought out, that is also a long tradition in the Netherlands. We have given that power to the central bank. We do not want politicians to use the money supply et cetera as a political policy. In addition, I would like to warn very strongly that I am simply following all the advice from IMF et cetera and also from the central banks themselves to stop immediately and immediately. All that kind of sturdy lyrics make the risks of phasing out, which are of course there, very great. So we really need to do that very carefully, predictable, reliable and gradual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u77	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u78	It is true that some of us, including myself, have talked about stopping immediately, but there was the question to you whether the central bank would not be able to reduce quickly with buying up, so from 60 to zero, and then how they might roll on and reduce the balance sheet. So not too literal, but the spirit of the question also understood well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yes, but your literal text was stopped immediately. That's how literal it was...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u80	To prevent pensions from being cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u81	... but we'll take that more figuratively. I have no idea. The Chamber can ask me a hundred times, a thousand times, but I will continue with the greatest pleasure to say that I think it is important that the central bank should conduct its monetary policy independently, as we have laid down in the Treaty, also very much at the insistence of the Netherlands, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u82	Independent because apparently politicians can't be trusted. But if such an independent supervisor goes very far in his mandate, even in the choices he makes and this has a major impact on society, then is it really crazy not to have a view on that? I will not ask again whether the Minister has a view on the ECB's policy on this point, but there have been other choices for the ECB. Surely that's just to discuss, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u83	No, from the point of view of the ECB's independence in determining its monetary policy, it does not seem appropriate to go into all kinds of other choices. You can discuss whether they remain within the mandate, because that is what we gave them. It's legally established. That is why we have judges who judge that. There have been rulings and questions for a preliminary ruling are still pending. The case law that exists so far is that, given the limitations it has imposed on itself, the ECB operates within the limits of the mandate. It has therefore been clarified as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u84	If you are pumping 80 billion a month into the economy by now, that is 60 billion a month, because you say 'we want inflation to rise' and 'we want the euro to be saved', that seems to me to be political statements. The political head of our Ministry of Finance does not want to give a political opinion on this. I find that strange, but I call Draghi's words 'whatever it takes' a political statement; he said that before the financial markets. Then the buying-in policy is such that the debts are taken over and we have hardly noticed any of them in the real economy. Yes, we see that companies' profits are rising and wages are falling. In doing so, the ECB's policy is fully in line with what the European Union always does. It is good for the multinational business community, and citizens have to go after it. In my term, I asked the Minister if he was prepared to open the discussion, because there could indeed be other ways of stimulating the economy. He can say that he has no opinion on what is happening now. But he can at least say: I am a Finance Minister in the Netherlands and I think there are other ways to stimulate the economy. It is not always the business and the financial sector that gets involved!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u85	Quite precisely, because there is some ideological rhetoric in Mrs Leijten's speech. It's okay. This is a political body and we are having a political debate. With regard to the effects of QE, it is absolutely true that those who hold the assets, shares or real estate will certainly benefit from the generous monetary policy, which is seen not only in Europe, but also in the USA, Japan, the UK, Sweden, Switzerland, because generous monetary policy means that a lot of money will be brought into the economy. As a result, asset prices, such as those of real estate, rise, stock exchanges do well, etc. That's a divisional issue. You are absolutely right about that. By the way, it's similar to bail-outs, saving banks. This was, of course, largely also the saving of investors in banks. I do not agree with you on the underlying objective. I fight that the underlying purpose would be to save, support or bacon big capital; those were your words: bacon. I don't believe that. The ECB's underlying objective is price stability. Why do we have the ECB for that, why is that laid down in the mandate? That is our view, of course. We would like them to do so so that economic development can resume in the euro area. Similarly, we did not save the banks to save investors, but to preserve financial stability, to secure savings from savers and to ensure that there is no further panic, including in the real economy. But you're right. Sorry, Madam President, Mrs Leijten is right: there are also absolutely red tape aspects, which are certainly not part of the policy's objective, but which come from underneath it. Are there other ways to stimulate the economy? Sure, but then, like Mr Snels, I look especially at what governments can do: conduct good policies. You do not mean that; you mean other possibilities within monetary policy. I'm not gonna talk about that. That is up to the ECB, which is independent. We have made a conscious choice. I will continue to defend that joyfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u86	We're gonna walk around a little bit. I'm thinking a little bit about how I could get the Minister to say: okay, I may not have an official view of what the ECB is doing now, but there are other options and they may need to be highlighted. We are faced with an independent supervisor who does something that has a major impact, both throughout the euro area and worldwide, on financial markets and on stability, even where you may hope that bad loans may disappear a little faster, but where low interest rates actually reduce it. That has a lot of effects, but we should not say that we could or should not. I think that we are totally tied up in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u87	I don't think so. First of all, if you think politics should take the lead in this, then you just have to change the treaty. I am not in favour of this, so this cabinet will not take any initiatives. But if I heard Mrs Leijten like that, the SP would be for that. It simply wants the ECB to be back under political governance. That's possible, but that's a completely different choice. My second view would be: if you do not do so, you must respect that the ECB, within its mandate and using the monetary instruments that we know, is shaping the policy. The ECB does so within its mandate, in view of the objective that we have given to the ECB. You could also change that politically, because you can say that we are changing the mandate. They remain independent, but we're going to change the mandate. It should no longer be just about financial stability, but also about an employment target. For example, the central bank in the US has that. Or it should no longer be about an inflation target of 2%, because perhaps that is no longer the good cause and there should be another inflation target. But change the mandate. I do not see any reason for this at the moment. I think the mandate is still good. I also think that, and I am now basing myself purely on the legal statements that lie ahead, that given their independence, and given the mandate we have given them, they stick to the mandate and do their job. You're just looking at that very differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u88	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u89	I am standing here again because the Minister says that Mrs Leijten apparently wants to change the treaty. We would like to change a lot in Europe, but I do not feel like such an owner of the euro system we have built. That's right. I think it would be very useful to think about a step other than currency union, however complicated it may be. But that's my political position. It also follows that I think that what Mario Draghi and the ECB are doing and have done at the moment by saying "whatever it takes, we are going to save that euro again" is at its core political. If you say he's independent, but he's political, then you have to be able to say that there are other scenarios. I think it is death in the pot that we in politics pretend to be what it is and as if there is no alternative. So yes, changing the treaty is a very big European debate, but I think what the ECB is doing and what Draghi is saying at its core is very political.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u90	This is a thirty-member debate, so I actually want to propose...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u91	... to involve the other 29 members! Yeah, that's a thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u92	You're a member yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u93	I'm a member myself. I count in that. We're not up to 30 yet, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u94	Yeah, exactly. I don't know how far you're going with your speech. You have actually only just begun answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes, but this is, of course, at the heart of the debate. I promise you, I will finish really soon afterwards. There are politicians who say that there is no alternative. I'm very much fighting that. I agree with Mrs Leijten. That really is death in the pot. There's always an alternative. There is also an alternative to currency union, there is an alternative to the euro, there is an alternative to this monetary policy. Of course it is. That's why I'm totally fighting that. I am going to provoke Mrs Leijten again, but she says: I am advocating a different step than in a currency union. I just don't know what she means by that. I thought the SP was also for the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, not anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u97	Is the SP done with that? Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u98	No, don't. Don't provoke Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u99	I'm not allowed to, but I'm trying to have a serious debate. Then I also need to know where Mrs Leijten is going with this. I note that we have a currency union. Recent research has shown that the euro has great advantages for the Netherlands. This study shows that thanks to a number of good structural characteristics of our economy and our banks, the Netherlands sees the benefits of monetary policy working well in the Dutch economy. There are also disadvantages. They are directly felt in the lower interest rate environment, which is then reinforced here for pension funds. I sometimes hear the banks complain about this environment, although their profitability is extremely good. But they all criticized it last year. So I've got a little less with that. I think pension funds have a more real issue. There are potential risks of building bubbles et cetera, which we are alert to. Again, the Snels-doctrine is that as a government you can also do something about it. You can just conduct macro-prudential policies. This can be done by the financial supervisor, which the government can do by preventing bubbles from developing. You can just act on that when you see bubbles. I'm not fighting the framework in which we work. We have a currency union. The Netherlands has a lot of advantage in this respect. We have an ECB with independence and a clear mandate. They're in there. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with more specific points and come to the end of my answer on pension funds and levels of cover. I do not think that is the order of the debate, but I will try to say something about it. Mr Van Rooijen asks whether I share the observation that this CPB report seems to make the spirits ripe for even longer monetary stimulus. I didn't read that. The CPB gives an overview of the effects and also points to the risks of phasing out this monetary policy. Those risks are known. Everyone is aware of that, too. That doesn't mean you shouldn't go through with the phasing-out because there are risks. It simply means that the central banks must do it carefully and that we must prepare ourselves to deal with any risks as well as possible. Mr Omtzigt raised questions about government bonds on the balance sheets of national central banks. He talked about TARGET2. If a country were to leave the euro, there would have to be a settlement and a settlement. In the case of a negative balance sheet balance, this will still have to be settled; we know that. Mr Omtzigt's question ultimately focused on the buy-back limit. The ECB shall not buy up more than one third of any type or class of bonds in order to prevent it from having a blocking minority on its own in the event of restructuring. Mr Omtzigt asked what the cabinet thought of a hypothetical increase in the buy-back limit. I'm not going to speculate about that. Strictly speaking, that is also up to the ECB. I note that Mr Draghi himself publicly recognizes that 33% limit. It is true that the ECB will in principle vote against debt restructuring. That is an answer to Mr Omtzig's other question on this point. That is precisely why the ECB should stay away from that blocking minority. Debt restructuring could never take place in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you for that last clear answer. The minister said they should vote against debt restructuring in principle. Do I hear that there is an escape clause and that under circumstances they could vote for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u101	I don't know. Even this is up to the ECB to decide, but the ECB's policy is that it votes against, point. But I'm not going over it. Ultimately, this is primarily up to the ECB. Why do I say "at first"? Because this can be verified at the Court. I'll tell you before you think I'm second. With this, I think I've said enough about the report. Then there's government policy. I've been talking about soap bubbles and what you could do to respond to them in time. We have talked about inflation targets, the method of phasing out and so on. Then there is the discussion about the effects on pension funds, which Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Azarkan initiated. This subject is even at the heart of their argument. There are these effects; there is no doubt about that. We often discuss whether we have the right method within the supervisory financial framework to determine the balance between the assets, their value and the returns that are realised there on the one hand and the liabilities on the other. For pension funds must prepare themselves for long-term pension payments from current pensioners, but also, of course, for future pensioners' pension payments, all those who are now contributing to pension funds. In calculating these rates, the interest rates are important. Mr Van Rooijen thinks that the calculation rate should be raised. He has also taken initiatives in this area. We are not in favour of this, he knows that about us because we believe that we should keep a close link with real interest rates, that is to say market interest rates. We'll take the annual average to make sure it doesn't fluctuate too much. We also give pension funds years to adapt to this, so that they do not have to be corrected very quickly, but we do have to use this real, real market interest as the starting point of the policy. Why? Because we cannot speculate on an increase in the short, medium or long term. Secondly, it is simply the case that the obligations are increasing sharply in a society that is ageing and that ageing is still going on. We therefore attach great importance to prudent policies in this area and do not believe that we should artificially increase the rate of calculation in order to improve the balance sheet of pension funds and enable them to pay more now, knowing that you will have too little money in the long term. That's not what we're here for. By the way, Mr President, I might be able to help you by pointing out that next week there will be another debate on the rate of calculation with Secretary of State Klijnsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u103	Apart from that, the Minister said that it is a proposal of ours that is correct, and that interest rates would go up. He'd have to formulate a little more precisely what I'd do. This is a temporary correction to the ECB buy-back programme for as long as it lasts. If the ECB stops doing so in a year's time and my proposal would be law by now, that proposal will also stop immediately. The 2% is a temporary bottom interest rate and the correction is only 0.5%, while De Nederlandsche Bank and the planning agency say it is at least 1%. So it is too short when the Minister says that interest is going up. It is a very small and very short-term correction, which, if it had effect, would be above 104 and then discounts would be five years off the track. That is the very modest step we are taking. It is not, therefore, something that is higher and which is detrimental to generations, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u104	The point is, of course, with pensions and pension funds, that you have to keep the long-term horizon in mind. Everything you do now, even if you do it temporarily, will work for decades. Secondly, postponing the discount, if you then return to the old calculation rate, is not a solution. To be honest, I do not have the confidence that 50PLUS in a year's time Mr Van Rooijen himself mentioned a year ago would say: now we accept the arithmetic interest rate that is in the ftk. I doubt that very much, and that really creates an uncertain situation. And not only that, I also think we would take a big risk for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u105	Last question and very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen, because this really is not legislation or an extensive debate. It is a thirty-member debate and there are spokesmen waiting for the next issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr President, I would just like to point out to the Minister that the planning agency also indicated in January that the effect is generation-neutral, because it is up to 2% and very short-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you. Then I'll look at the minister. I think you were finishing up, or are you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u108	When I look through my notes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. I was just having a little debate with the Minister about whether, because it is independent, you should not criticize the ECB or have an opinion on its choice. We call that choice a political choice, which we do suffer from and which you can ask yourself whether it saves the euro, as Mario Draghi promised us or, perhaps, in particular, as he promised the financial markets. In our election programme, the Minister could have read that our analysis is that the euro is unsustainable in the longer term. You can save him a hundred times or you can say it's all got to be federal. We are going to have debates on this in this Chamber, so I will be brief. We say: you really should look at an alternative, a possible unbundling and let it go as well as possible. It's in our election program. We also want the ECB to be democratized, and for that I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ECB's buying-in of government and corporate bonds has, in particular, increased demand for financial products;]] [[Whereas the ECB's buying-in of government and corporate bonds presents major risks such as the possibility of bubble formation in the housing market;]] [[calls on the Government to propose alternatives to the quantitative expansion by the ECB serving the real economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd better get right to the motion. In this motion, with one signatory, Mrs Leijten, the government is invited to propose alternatives to the quantitative enlargement by the ECB serving the real economy. I'm looking at the considerations. I disagree with the first recital. It states that the ECB's policy has mainly increased demand for financial products. There are different effects of the ECB's policies, including in the real economy. This is also apparent from the various studies, as well as from the CPB report, which is the subject of today's debate. The second recital refers to large risks. Those risks are there. I don't think they're big at the moment. I don't see the bubble formation in the housing market in a generic sense. I see them very specifically in some places in the big cities, for example in the Netherlands. I suspect there are other reasons for this. And we can just adopt national policies on that ourselves. Finally, the operative part calls on the government to propose alternatives to the ECB's policy. We will not do that, because we believe that the ECB is independent in shaping monetary policy. Secondly, the ECB does so within the terms of reference that we, the politicians, have formulated for the bank. And we do not need to change that mandate at the moment. Thirdly, I am convinced that this public task for the ECB is in the service of the real economy. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-7.u112	This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate. We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and suspend the sitting for a few moments.
