ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Food and Service Authority, the NVWA, has a very important role in our society. It is the NVWA that must ensure that animals, for example, are not abused during slaughter or transport. It's the NVWA that has to monitor the safety of our food. The NVWA is therefore at the basis of the confidence that Dutch people should be able to have in their own food. That trust is embarrassed. We read that a vet in the service of NVWA, whose job it is to guarantee animal welfare and food safety, reports many times of gross abuses over a long period of time, of sick animals slaughtered against the rules, of unhygienic conditions and of unsanitated slaughter. This veterinarian is treated as a problem within the NVWA and eventually transferred instead of doing his job and taking action. That makes the SP furious. This affects public health. This affects animal welfare. This touches the confidence that people should be able to have in their government. In this context, I would also point out that a letter signed by 85 veterinarians states that this incident is not isolated and that abuses are tolerated and facilitated in the Netherlands. The NVWA's reputation was far from immaculate, but is now completely under pressure. We're out of patience. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State the following questions. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that the abuses, as described by the NRC, affect public confidence in the NVWA to the core? Why did the NVWA choose to transfer the relevant veterinarian, who clearly did his job, and designate him as counterproductive? According to the Secretary of State, within the NVWA, was or was there a culture of service to abattoirs rather than to animals and consumers whose interests the NVWA should protect? How can it be explained that during the same period the NVWA vets were employed who did agree to these circumstances? What happened to those vets? Why is the Chamber not fully informed and detailed about these serious abuses? What has the Secretary of State done about this problem in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that Mr Futselaar spoke true words about the important role that NVWA plays in our society. The NVWA oversees, among other things, food safety and animal welfare in the Netherlands. Mr Futselaar rightly says that the NVWA is also at the basis of the confidence that we can have in the food supply. It is up to companies to comply with the rules, but by organising supervision as well as possible, you make it as unattractive as possible to break the rules. In spring 2013, the inspector-general of the NVWA received several internal signals from an employee that there would be shortcomings in the monitoring and enforcement of slaughterhouses. On this basis, the inspector-general has asked for these signals to be mapped out and to see to what extent they are on their own or that there are structural deficiencies. The inspector-general then set up a project group led by an independent chairman. On 2 September 2013, he issued the report Improving supervision of small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. That report was presented to the then Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, my predecessor. It noted that there were structural shortcomings in monitoring. She then informed the Chamber the following day, on 3 September 2013, and also fully informed Mr Futselaar, because this was one of his questions. The Secretary of State has taken a number of measures directly in the areas of the design of supervision, capacity, enforcement culture and effectiveness of supervision. In 2014 the NVWA started the improvement plan meat chain as part of the Plan of Approach NVWA 2013. In addition, the signals and conclusions from the reporting were used to achieve improvements in slaughter. In 2015, based on new signals, the internal audit service was asked to further investigate those signals; these were signals from the same employee. On 12 October 2015, that service issued a report indicating a number of shortcomings in monitoring. These shortcomings have been recognised by the NVWA and they have been dealt with immediately in the context of the improvement plan. Although the entire improvement process of the NVWA has not yet been completed, the Court can see in the monitoring results it has received that the situation and compliance in slaughterhouses has improved significantly since 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer. I note that in any case there have been two moments, and the Secretary of State acknowledges that in 2013 and 2015, where there was also an internal observation that signals from the inside that things were not going well, were correct. We are now also seeing signals from outside; a fair amount of veterinarians saying it is not good. What does such an organisation say where in a period of three years, 2013, 2014, 2015, apparently there are abuses that seem to be known at all levels if I have been properly informed about the state of NVWA? What does it say about the culture that prevails there that this is apparently accepted and that other veterinarians agree? This is also evident from the publications we have seen. Where one veterinarian says: this is unacceptable, I have to pass this upstairs, others apparently agree and say: it's all okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	That says that supervision, certainly until 2013, was inadequate on precisely these kinds of points. That has been recognised, also by the cabinet. At the time, the cabinet said that intervention was needed. One of the problems that Mr Futselaar rightly raises, but all of which are also mentioned in the improvement plans, is that the uniformity of supervision failed, so that there was indeed different enforcement in one place than in the other. We can't let that happen. It's not supposed to happen. So an important part of the improvement plan was ensuring uniform supervision and tighter supervision. The signals from the employees concerned have been picked up for that. The conclusions of the 2015 audit service report were also taken up in order to achieve those improvements. What you need to look at is whether you're better off today than you were four years ago. The answer to that is yes. Is it done yet? No, because the whole improvement process is still ongoing. The Chamber has received the plan NVWA-2020. The NVWA is in the middle of a transition aimed at further strengthening that supervision and ensuring that this type of shortcomings, which have been identified in the past, can no longer be prevented in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	My last question. In 2013, abuses were detected and a project group was set up. In 2015, abuses were identified and an improvement plan is put in place. My question to the Secretary of State is: when are improvement plans going to lead to improvement? We're getting signals from the field now that things aren't going well. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would have liked it all to have been discussed in detail with the Chamber, if it were not for the Chamber to have declared its plans controversial. There is a comprehensive plan to continue the improvement process in the coming years to ensure that NVWA is where it should be in 2020, namely that it is a sharp and robust regulator. Then the improvement process. The NVWA has dealt with 1. different mergers in a row and 2. substantial cuts under previous cabinets. This cabinet has added considerable resources and has started the whole process of improvement, because it recognises that the NVWA plays an important role in the society that Mr Futselaar also indicated. By monitoring closely, we can have confidence in our food supply. That is what the whole process of improvement is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Futselaar, but I see that it is not necessary. Thank you. I call Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Madam President. I have been in the Chamber for eleven years this year and every year it is about abuses within the NVWA. And I gotta tell you, I'm just tired of it. Especially if it has something to do with animal suffering. I think it's a disgrace. I was standing here a few weeks ago, Madam President. I have to give that introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	It was then about abuses in a slaughterhouse in Tielt. At that time, even MPs lay over me: "what does that have to do with the Netherlands" and "I was a Dutch representative." I asked if there were any of these abuses in the Netherlands. That was just denied. They're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	What are you asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	I say to the Secretary of State, put the NVWA in order tomorrow and ask for support if necessary. If there's any harassment and threats, the animal police are gonna deploy. Grab animal executioners by their laces. Throw them in jail and give a life-long ban on keeping animals and close those tokos where they abuse animals. Come on in, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr Graus is right that we have spoken several times about the NVWA. For the record, this is not a matter of new facts; it is a matter of events that took place in 2013 and of an audit report from 2015 which has now been reported in the newspaper by an appeal from NRC to the Public Access Act. But that doesn't mean it's new information. It is old information that has also been the basis for all the improvements made by the NVWA. So the action that Mr Graus is asking for has already been seen in full in recent years and he can also see in the monitoring results that not only supervision has been strengthened, but compliance has also been improved in the slaughterhouses. That doesn't mean we're already here. That whole improvement process takes a long time. There was a lot to do, too. But the NVWA is a lot better today than it was four years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Secretary of State states that this is not about new facts but about old ones. Those old facts from 2013 and 2015 are of such a nature that this raises doubts with the Chamber, including me, about the improvement process. The Secretary of State says: read the monitoring and things are much better now. The essence of the facts that have now emerged is that there is an internal culture that did not adequately address the abuses in the slaughterhouses at all. That means that we don't really have that much monitoring from the NVWA in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	Can the Secretary of State again explain to me what the interventions have been in the NVWA which have actually broken through the culture of cover and of a little service to abattoirs rather than animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	I recommend that Mr Grashoff take another look back at the letter of 3 September 2013 received by the Chamber of my predecessor Secretary of State Dijksma, and also to look back at the whole plan of approach 2013, which is about improving NVWA. Then he sees that the signals that are now in the newspaper were already reported to the Chamber and that it was said at that time that there is a real need for improvement. The then Secretary of State also said that this is not the way to do it. One of these key issues was the uniformity of supervision. This means that the same monitoring must be carried out everywhere, which must therefore also be predictable. It shouldn't matter who is in which company. If there is a failure, it must always be dealt with in the same way. Take the example that is now also in the newspaper in detail, of meat that has fallen to the ground. This should not be reduced in the consumption chain. So it's not supposed to be that way that was overlooked. The inspector-general therefore also immediately picked up all these signals. In my view, the Chamber can also expect a supervisor to take action on these signals and that the cabinet will also intervene on them. That is exactly what happened when the previous Secretary of State found that these were not incidents but that they were related to the structure of supervision, to the culture of the organisation and to shortcomings in supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have two questions on behalf of the D66 Group. The first question follows on from Mr Grashoff's. The Secretary of State refers to the monitoring of culture, the inspection of supervision, i.e. rather abstract concepts. But what about a specific inspector who sees that things are not going well in the workplace? Is it sufficiently protected and how does the Secretary of State assess in this case the fact that this is my second question also 40 veterinarians are still very critical of the work of NVWA today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Are inspectors sufficiently protected? Yes, the NVWA does everything in its power to protect its own employees. That does not alter the fact that NVWA inspectors are sometimes confronted with intimidation or even threats. I find it appalling that this is happening, and I also know that the NVWA is doing everything in its power to protect its employees as best it can and to take them as well as possible if it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	Of course, that's important, but what I mean is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	No discussion, just an explanatory question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	...are they also sufficiently protected to raise internal issues that are not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	Oh, yeah. You can see that by the way this vet's signals have been handled. They have also led to immediate action, improvement plans at the slaughterhouses, and they have also been important as input to the whole NVWA improvement plan. This shows that signals sent by people from the NVWA's workplace are immediately picked up at the highest level, as you can expect from a supervisor in my view. People are also more protected, if I may say so, by the fact that the NVWA has drawn up a tighter directive on how supervision should be carried out and sanctioned. This means that there is more predictability and more uniformity in supervision, as one can expect from a supervisor. The NVWA itself has also recognised that this failed but that it has now improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr De Groot, your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, about the 40 vets, as a fact of the day, it still wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	It's hard for me to judge that. I have already said that the supervision of the NVWA is being improved and that the improvement plan is not yet complete. So if the signal is that it's not perfect yet, not yet as it should be, then that's right, because we're in the middle of that improvement process. It is now 2017, the whole improvement path runs from 2013 to 2020. That's a long time. It also has everything to do with how the NVWA stood at the beginning of this cabinet period. My predecessor immediately took action on this when she clearly saw it. I've continued that line in the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	If I hadn't experienced it before, I'd be backing down on the Secretary of State's answers right now. The cabinet summarises that there is a difference in supervision. In other words, it has been suggested to the Chamber that one slaughter might be looked a little more closely than the other slaughter. The reconstruction of NRC now shows that there was a veterinarian who said "but this can't happen, I'm making pictures of this" and that his colleagues have opposed him. That is, I think, something different than: there are differences in the level of supervision. The fact that this vet is now at home after having been transferred several times is no different...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	And now the question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	...then indicate that this whistleblower within the NVWA is not sufficiently protected? How normal is it that someone at the table with the Secretary of State can say what is really going on? How often does this Secretary of State receive supervisors from the NVWA at his office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mrs Ouwehand, this is oral Question Time and the interruptions must be really short. You know that. Through you, I say that to others who do the same. I give the floor to the Secretary of State and also to you: a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	I will try to do that, and I am also trying to decipher what Mrs Ouwehand's question was. What matters is that these signals were there. Mrs Ouwehand speaks of a whistleblower; that is someone whose signals are not being picked up and who therefore goes outside. That is not the case in this case. It was someone who rang the doorbell internally and said: I see things that are not supposed to happen. That was also recognised by the NVWA. An improvement process was then put in place. Following further signals, this has been re-acknowledged and the internal audit service has been asked to investigate them for a reason. The things you read in the NRC are largely from that report from the Internal Audit Service. You can now read that report on the government website. So you can see for yourself what happened to those signals and whether they have been properly dealt with. In my opinion, the latter is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	But the big question is, of course, how can the Chamber trust that this process of improvement actually tackles this culture, because that is where the crux lies. This veterinarian was opposed by his colleagues in the NVWA before he finally sat at the table with Secretary of State Dijksma and the Secretary of State said: wow, this is so bad, this can't be done, I didn't know this. But it is not common practice that colleagues from NVWA who are being opposed have a direct line to the Secretary of State to make it clear: this is not going well? So how can we trust that this opposition, that that culture has changed? That's the crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	It is all for my time, but I can see as well as Mrs Ouwehand that the relevant employee came to the Secretary of State with his signals. So it's not like they were kept away. On the contrary, the opposite has been the case. Those signals were taken seriously, including the leadership of the NVWA. That leadership of the NVWA also said that it would be good for the State Secretary to hear and see these signals personally. The Secretary of State at the time also took immediate action on this matter. So the question is not whether anything goes wrong in these kinds of organizations. Everywhere they work, something goes wrong. The question is whether, if there are signs that something is going wrong, they are being properly picked up. And that's what happened in this case. They were immediately translated into improvements. It was also immediately noted by both the management of the NVWA and the then State Secretary that this was really about structural shortcomings within the organisation of the NVWA and also within the culture of that organisation and that there was therefore a need for change. You were informed about this as a Chamber on 3 September 2013 and then also in the plan of action for the NVWA of 2013. Both times you have been clearly outlined what the shortcomings were and that it was also necessary to make improvements. The cabinet invested heavily in this and then I did so again last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	You have just said that a few times. Sorry, Mrs Dik-Faber, you will not have the opportunity to ask a question because Mr Bruins has already been here and has already asked two questions. So it's gonna be a fight in the Christian Union fraction! I call Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	A lot of questions have already been asked. I'll add another one. Has the Secretary of State himself talked to people about possible abuses in the Dutch abattoirs and, if so, who were they and what has the Secretary of State done with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	We're talking about a situation that played out in 2013. I wasn't in office at the time, but my predecessor was. As you've read everywhere, she's spoken to the vet herself. I think I've said that a few times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u38	You may ask another question, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u39	Well, it's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u40	You repeat your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u41	The Secretary of State isn't answering. Did the Secretary of State himself...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u42	Just to be clear, Mr Geurts may have missed it: this did not happen at the time that I was in office, but at the time that my predecessor was in office. So she talked about it herself. In my period I have not received such signals; let that be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr Geurts says he didn't get an answer again. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u44	I didn't receive those signals, so there was no reason to talk to people about signals I didn't receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u45	Okay. Mrs Lodders, you too cannot ask questions. The VVD has been sufficiently covered. Mrs Becker and Mr Van Oosten have been here. Also within the VVD there will be a fight! Mr Graus, you too have been, but what did you want? Didn't you get an answer to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u46	You gave Mr. De Groot a chance to do something that wasn't answered...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u47	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u48	The Secretary of State has not yet responded to the sentences. I've asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u49	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u50	...to ensure that animal executioners go to prison and get a life-long ban on keeping animals...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Graus! This is the disadvantage of having very long introductions. Then rulers can get away easily. If it is formulated briefly and forcefully, you can expect an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u52	This is a question that Mr Graus always asks me and I always tell him to be with the Minister of Security and Justice. He was just here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u53	There will be plenty of debates in which you will be able to raise this point again, Mr Graus. Thank you.
